on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu’s approval process for plant protection products is one of the most stringent systems in the world, yet to read the pest committee’s report you really wouldn’t think so. despite hearing from a range of experts and authorities, the report has been prepared in a very selective manner with many of these experts’ contributions being intentionally disregarded. the content doesn’t reflect the opinions we heard, instead it regurgitates the same beliefs and myths that we heard at the start of the process, even when these have been clearly and unanimously dispelled by experts: a supposed weakness of the rapporteur member state system, allegations of plagiarism in assessment documentation, apparent failures of the zonal system... these have all been shown to be wide of the mark by invited experts. yet many of these remain deliberately uncontested in this report in order to provide a platform for campaigning meps ahead of the elections in may. so the report is very disappointing and it reflects poorly on our institution, and that’s why we have presented plenary amendments to ensure that colleagues will be able to vote to support the real content of the committee hearings and not just the selected opinions of certain parliamentarians. we should support a fact-based and science-based approach to policy-making, and i hope that this parliament will see the value of this approach and support the amendments presented by the ecr. our current system isn’t perfect, it can be improved. we can act to improve transparency, which the commission has already done in its proposal to revise the general food law. we can encourage innovation. we can support the development of new farming techniques which reduce pesticide use, and new active substances which will make older, more persistent, chemistry obsolete. the invited expert from greenpeace said at the final hearing that it’s not flaws in the legislation that we need to address, but rather it is improvements to the implementation that are needed. so this report must strike a balance of opinion which reflects the objectives of the regulation and the breadth of the expert testimony, even where this is inconvenient for some political groups and campaigners.
madam president, can i say at the beginning, maybe for mr tarabella, that i’ll be supporting ms mcintyre’s view on this particular issue and maybe that will allay his fears. my view is very simple. for producers, herbicides like glyphosate are not a luxury, they are a necessity. not only is responsible use of herbicides vital in the production of food, it is also beneficial in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting sustainable farming. the eu rightly champions high standards in food production and the importance of protecting public health, and i agree with all of that, food safety and the environment. the best way to do this is by formulating a policy based on scientific evidence. i agree with you, commissioner: how do you guarantee some of this? but somewhere along the line you have to trust somebody, and if you’ve got to trust somebody, you’ve got to trust those who are actually in charge of science. now i am nor saying this is totally secure 100%, because there is no such thing as 100% security, but trust somebody. you’ve got to do it, and there has to be a scientific point of view.
madam president, neither i nor my political group were in favour of setting up the special committee in the first place. i didn’t think there was any need for such an instrument to address the citizens’ initiative on glyphosate, a subject which is aired with monotonous regularity in this chamber, and we’ve talked about it probably more than any other subject when it comes to chemicals for agriculture. undoubtedly it’s very important, i absolutely agree, and i’ve certainly never sought to diminish the importance of making sure that we have a good system, but it is fairly universally acknowledged that the eu system is pretty much the best that there is. and indeed – not wishing to sit on our laurels – we know that the commission, and our commissioner, put forward under the general food law proposals, some proposals which very much address the issues that so many of the members of this house have spoken of this afternoon. my fundamental problem with this report is that it has taken a huge amount of effort and energy – and i commend our rapporteurs for the work that they’ve put in – but in doing so, what actually do we gain? running parallel, we have a legislative report on general food law which pretty much looks at almost all of the issues which are raised here – certainly all of those which fall within the sensible remit of this parliament. that is not to say that we didn’t get an awful lot of amendments that were a little bit, how shall i put it, ‘idealistic’, but most of those have been subsumed into the sorts of compromises that we are so very good at here, but which actually in the end, don’t lead us any further forward. so i shall not be voting for this report. i think it should go forward as a monument of how we are very, very good at establishing ways to waste our time and i look forward to dealing with the general food law, which is a far more important piece of legislation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, on behalf of lucy anderson, hired vehicles are an important and growing part of the eu road transport sector and one that touches on a range of public policy. this plenary has already taken an initial view on the revision of the law on hired vehicles, but it is right now that we reconsider the matter urgently, not least in the light of the controversial mobility package proposals. we must put safety, environmental concerns and consideration for truck drivers at the top of our list of priorities for this sector. the s&d has tabled a number of important amendments and these are supported by many meps from other political groups. despite repeated attempts to find compromise solutions on issues such as the training of drivers, the environmental impact of hired vehicles or on the level of liberalisation of the market, the rapporteur has shown little willingness, i’m afraid, to accommodate different views, leaving us with a weaker text. i would urge everyone to support our amendments in the vote tomorrow in order to tackle the deficiencies of the proposal and provide a good basis for negotiations with the council. it is essential that we ensure that hired vehicles are in compliance with the most applicable emission limits laid down in union law. in the light of safety considerations and different circumstances in the member states, it is right they should be allowed to decide whether or not to continue hiring restrictions on the heaviest goods vehicles. we strongly urge support for a sensible amendment to ensure that drivers receive the necessary information for using hired vehicles. penalties applicable for infringements of this directive should be adequate, effective and dissuasive. and finally, breaches of the law regarding hired vehicles should be regarded as serious infringements of eu road transport legislation, leading to potential action being taken against the licences of infringing transport operators. given these concerns, madam president, the s&d group cannot support the current text if it remains unamended.
madam president, i am happy that this parliament takes the fight for gender equality seriously. at a time when conservative forces are allying against women, girls and lgbtiq+ people, it’s important to redouble our efforts towards achieving true gender equality. as we consider how to better add a gender perspective, both to the eu’s policies and the administrative functioning of parliament, it’s important to keep in mind that this is not only about women. a gender perspective is also important for lgbtiq+ people whose experiences are often silenced and ignored in policy-making. we still have a long way to go in terms of diversity in the european parliament. white, middle-class people remain unacceptably over-represented in our institutions. the eu needs to adopt real policies fostering diversity and inclusion in order to create a real democracy where everyone is represented. one of the ways that i have been addressing this is to offer job-shadowing opportunities to young women and lgbtiq+ people. hopefully, some of them will be sitting in this chamber in the future. those of us who have achieved in life should never pull up the ladder behind us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i was just trying to catch your attention because you didn’t give me the opportunity to respond to the blue card from my colleague wiśniewska, so this is just a way to get your attention. i do think i should answer, because the fight for women’s rights is a fight for all of us. i am very proud that in my political group we take that seriously and we put it at the forefront of our work in the socialists and democrats group. however, it will not have gone unnoticed by anybody living in the 21st century, in the days that we are experiencing, that president trump is the most arch-conservative leader that we have seen in decades, and that his influence on right-wing forces across the world means that women are not even keeping pace with the level of equality that we had before. somehow or other, president trump has normalised the kind of inequality, mistreatment, sexual harassment and misogyny that existed beforehand. he is a conservative and it is the conservative forces like that that we are now fighting against.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a report that is perfectly sensible, as far as it goes. however, the obvious elephant in the room is the section that calls for clarification of the role of the united kingdom. this does, of course, depend on the united kingdom clarifying its own position. unfortunately, our prime minister ms may has made something of a mess of this, from the point where she said the uk wished to be outside of the euratom treaty. the joint european torus (jet) based at culham in my constituency is the place – the only place – that has actually made fusion happen, and it is an essential source of expertise. without the work of jet, the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) project will be subjected to further disruption and delay. before mr sam gyimah, the uk’s last science minister, resigned over the mess that is the government’s brexit negotiation, he announced the expansion of the culham site, with more uk investment and more jobs. i would urge the commission, when the opportunity arises, to resolve the uncertainty over jet and jobs at culham as quickly as it can.
madam president, it’s deplorable that there is still a gender bias in our taxation system, and i’m happy that this report highlights particularly period poverty. it’s a real issue for women and girls across europe and a fundamental concern. it’s awful that poverty prevents people from accessing the basic health products that they rely upon. in blackpool, in my constituency, local councillors have been supporting the red box project to supply free sanitary products in schools. as 49% of respondents to a 2017 survey reported missing school due to their periods, the importance of free sanitary products is clear. another survey in the northwest showed 44% of respondents had used toilet paper in place of sanitary products. education and dignity shouldn’t be affected owing to zero access to basic health products. i support removing vat from these products to make them more affordable and call on member states to ensure that there is access to free products in public spaces. i also call for the eu to push for more radical steps to make sanitary products free across the eu.
madam president, the people over there told us that brexit would be easy – easy trade deals, easy frictionless borders, easy money for our nhs. what arrant nonsense that turned out to be. because now we have it, brought to us by the government that have given a ferry contract to a company with no ferries and can’t even organise a traffic jam: the deal that means that we get stuck abiding by the rules, but with no say over making them and pay billions in a divorce bill but have no guarantees for the future. it’s bad for manufacturers of vans in luton, it’s bad for passengers flying in and out of stansted airport, it’s bad for the world-class researchers at cambridge university. we have bartered, swapped and traded real power for notional sovereignty, and i say: not in my name. so my message to mps of all political colours voting in the house of commons is to vote down this miserable deal. extend article 50 and end this national humiliation.
madam president, recent weeks have seen increasing attempts at intimidation of members of parliament in the united kingdom. the metropolitan police have now arrested one of those filmed harassing anna soubry mp, a prominent conservative opponent of brexit. those involved appear to have direct links to far-right groups associated with stephen christopher yaxley-lennon, a convicted violent criminal who now goes under the alias tommy robinson. this thug (to quote nigel farage) has now been appointed by the ukip leader gerard batten mep as a special political adviser. these are disturbing developments at a delicate time. let us not forget that during the 2016 brexit referendum, a labour mp, jo cox, was murdered in her constituency by an assailant shouting ‘britain first’. today i have written to the five chief constables in south-east england, urging that they ensure that harassment of members of parliament is not tolerated and our democracy and rule of law is protected.
madam president, going on hunger strike is a decision not taken lightly, yet there is increased use of this desperate measure as a form of ethical protest. i have just returned from diyarbakir where the imprisoned hdp mp leyla güven is in a critical condition after refusing food for 67 days in protest at the inhuman policy of isolation that turkish authorities have long imposed upon kurdish leader abdullah öcalan in imrali jail. leyla has been imprisoned herself for nearly a year awaiting trial because she criticised turkish attacks on afrin – which we also did here in this house. i can speak freely, but leyla and hundreds of others cannot. meanwhile, in a prison near tehran, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, a wrongfully jailed british charity worker, and narges mohammadi, an iranian human rights defender, are beginning a hunger strike in protest at denial of medical care. desperate times provoke desperate measures. but is the world listening? i call on the media to shine a light on these cases and provoke outrage amongst decent people.
madam president, i wanted to start by making a comment on numbers. the figure of 65 million was raised earlier. this is the number of people displaced, the overwhelming majority of whom are in their countries of origin. and while we are seeing an increase in the number of refugees we also have to recognise that that is a result of conflict, persecution and that increasingly we are going to see people pushed to move because of climate change, and i am sure that even patriots would want a robust position from the european union on tackling climate change if they are so worried about the growing number of people moving. but i am concerned about what’s happening to a number of eu policies. a shift in our development policy where we’re actually looking more and more at migration control as a central point rather than poverty reduction. and i would like to ask council whether they think we have got the balance right, where we are turning a blind eye to human rights abuses in turkey and libya? whether the eu is doing enough on resettlement, that you mentioned, and that in terms of dublin and secondary movements, are we doing enough to remove the push factors where our member states are not delivering on the asylum policy correctly so people will move on for family reunion to have their claims heard? we need to be looking at what we are doing and we could do better.
madam president, mr lamberts said, i quote ‘people getting onto boats and dinghies in order to leave a living hell’. if mr lamberts is still here – he’s not here – okay. but, mr lamberts, does this include those migrants getting into dinghies in france in order to cross the english channel? what are they fleeing from? what is the living hell in france that they are fleeing from? they are not asylum seekers, are they? these are migrants, and the problem we have is that we are conflating the issue; we are reforming the eu asylum and migration policy, but until we deal with migration policy, we cannot truly deal with asylum. we need to have a very strict ability to decide on exactly how many people come into europe so that our local authorities can ensure that there are enough houses for these people, enough jobs for these people, enough schools and doctors and teachers. right now it’s a free for all, and all that’s happening is that the countries that have opened up their borders – like germany – have realised that they can’t cope with this huge amount of people and are now trying to force these people onto other nations, like hungary and poland – nations that don’t want them because they don’t have the infrastructure for them. so until we actually manage – and government is about governing, about being in charge – our borders, until we manage how many people come here in an orderly fashion, how can we make sure that people who truly need asylum are not being ignored, or that we’re not creating migration fatigue among the people who live in our nations, leading them to turn their backs on those people who truly need asylum? can we get our house in order? reform means to improve. we are not improving anything. we are just moving the deck-chairs around on a ship that’s sinking.
madam president, the eu does not have a policy to control migrants; it has a policy to entice migrants. the eu policy has turned commercial shipping and coastguards in the mediterranean into a taxi service for criminal gangs dealing in human beings. the eu is colluding in human misery and criminal money. if the eu were to insist that all asylum applications must be processed in countries outside of the eu, this would cut the deadly traffic immediately. eu policy is therefore resulting in death and human trafficking. it is encouraging the slave markets in north africa. it has resulted in migrants being shipped into the eu for forced labour. the hope for europe now lies in national leaders to protect our ancient nations from themselves. sebastian kurz in austria, viktor orbán in hungary, matteo salvini in italy – these democratic leaders have taken back control from the migrant smugglers for the people. borders belong to nations. without borders there are no nations, just a smugglers’ gold rush.
madam president, as we approach very fast the end of the mandate we only have a three-month window and it is somewhat déjà vu – a tiny country like malta, 400 000, which was the country when i first became a member of parliament that was taking refugees and again such a tiny country taking refugees, again the commissioner going member state to member state, and we have to then ask the question: are we deluded if we say there is no common policy or that we don’t reform dublin or we don’t have a package? that is the question everyone needs to answer today. and the answer to that question is, of course we need some common approach otherwise the shame of sea—watch and sea—eye will be repeated, over 2 000 people will die and their numbers will be added to and that will continue. so we have a window of three months, in that window an opportunity must be taken. we didn’t have qmv in the austrian presidency and i say to and i ask the romanian presidency: take this opportunity, we should have qmv under the treaties, we should have some movement, the homework was done in this parliament, many of the rapporteurs were here. let’s take this opportunity. we have three months. let’s do it. (applause)
mr president, i stand under rules of procedures 22 and 45 and i want to raise awareness of a 56-year-old mp, leyla güven, who has been on hunger strike for 69 days. she was arrested one year ago for condemning turkish invasion of afrin. many of the meps here also condemned that, but she’s on hunger strike against the isolation of the kurdish leader abdullah öcalan and i ask you as president to look at her pre-trial on the 25th of this month and send a delegation of meps to look at what is happening at her trial. (applause) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome this report on autonomous driving. last week, i had the pleasure of visiting mill brook in bedfordshire, in my constituency. they have invested in 5g mobile test infrastructure to supercharge the development of connected and autonomous vehicles. the vision for the technological future is one where we all sit back and relax in cars that drive us safely and efficiently to our destinations. no collisions, no traffic jams. to become a reality, of course, there will need to be car-to-car and car-to-everything-around-them communications and crucially, all cars really need to be speaking the same language. there won’t be any translation booths or headphones. so, if industry-wide standards cannot be agreed by industry then the eu must step in. i therefore particularly welcome the call on the commission to propose a regulatory framework to promote v2x connectivity for highly and fully automated vehicles.
mr president, i welcome this report and the broad approach that commissioner jourová set out last night. the three pillars of work needing to happen around the legal framework are the financial support for developing technologies and the socio-economic implications of driverless. the arguments around liability are now familiar and the ability to adapt technologies to local driving cultures are entirely feasible. the clear desire on the part of technology firms like google, uber and amazon to dispense with those inconvenient and unpredictable human beings has social implications that are both wide and deep. however, there is a fourth pillar, and that is public acceptance of autonomous vehicles. the traveling public is perfectly willing to accept the notion of autonomous vehicles with a human safety override on passenger aircraft as a matter of routine, but the car is a symbol of personal freedom and status, and it is powerful and it is cherished. so politicians are sooner or later going to have to answer the question: in the future will i still be able to drive my own car wherever i want to drive it?
mr president, the next time you’re in a town or in a city, look around and count how many people are driving for a living: bus drivers, cab drivers, white van drivers, uber drivers. put them altogether and you’ve got probably the single biggest collective employer of men. now, as autonomous vehicles become a reality, an awful lot of jobs are going to be lost in that sector, and of course that has led to some concerns in this house, which we have heard. but it doesn’t follow that all these people are going to be milling around unemployed. where, after all, if we look around today are all the unemployed ex-video rental employees or secretaries or archivists or travel agents? technology is constantly changing the way we work, and yet more people in most of our countries are in employment than at any time in our history. that’s the wonder of artificial intelligence and of modern technological change: that living standards keep rising, that we keep creating more new jobs as things get better and better. look around; look around at how lucky we are to be alive right now.
mr president, i welcome this report and the commitment to zero vat on sanitary products. the average woman uses 10 000 tampons in a lifetime, and spends gbp 18 000 on periods. that’s a lot of money for something that’s completely natural and unstoppable and happens every month. yet, we are living in a society blighted by period poverty and period stigma. plan international uk found that one in ten young women were unable to afford tampons and pads, leading to some girls missing out on school. then there’s period stigma, partly, i would argue, because this monthly event is still shrouded in secrecy. it’s time to go a step further, and i call on european governments to fund free sanitary protection in all public buildings. just as it is for loo roll in toilets, so let it be for pads and tampons, too.
mr president, the romanian presidency is a safe pair of hands for the brexit process. i want the romanian prime minister to help the british prime minister in that process. two years ago, we thought brexit would be a piece of cake. today it is a hot potato, and not a bed of roses for prime minister theresa may, who, with amazing bottle has taken the bit between her teeth and is going the whole hog. in the house of commons, it is going down like a lead balloon tonight, but the prime minister is not throwing the baby out with the bathwater, nor changing her horses midstream. she knows it is a can of worms, but is determined to get the best for britain, warts and all. tonight she is between a rock and a very hard place. we wait with bated breath on a wing and a prayer for some success.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this pork—barrel legislation invests eu money managed centrally by the commission. can we please remind ourselves of two things? first, there is no such thing as eu money. it comes from the taxpayer, and it is taxpayers’ money. secondly, a profit that motivates a business that is investing taxpayers’ money into it is a subsidy that distorts the market on which taxpayers must themselves rely, whether it is consumers, investors or both. state aid rules were intended to ensure a level playing field in the use of subsidies. that’s why the eu wants to impose the eu state aid rules on the uk during, and even after, transition. but it won’t be a level playing field because this legislation will streamline the approval process for eu businesses, but not uk ones. you might say we will be at the back of the queue, but it need not be a disadvantage. after all, oliver twist was at the back of the queue for his subsidised thin gruel. asking for more didn’t help him, but escape from a 19th century workhouse most certainly did. that is what british business will, and must, do – escape from a 19th century-style customs union to a more entrepreneurial and liberating future. unfortunately, our prime minster sees it differently, but she looks as if she’s going to get a good beating tonight, so i’m off to enjoy that. we will be out of the european union soon, i hope, and have free trade deals with the rest of the world.
madam president, we cannot have a debate about trade agreements without discussing the very worrying situation in nicaragua, where attacks against the independent press and critical voices in civil society are becoming more and more intense, with threatened and real violence against journalists and ngos in particular. press freedom is one of the cornerstones of democracies, and the eu must use its political influence to ensure its partners respect their international human rights obligations. the commission continues to present trade policy as one of the best ways to promote human rights at the international level. but the results are not here. the eu must stop prioritising its own home-grown investors over human rights concerns. putting in place binding rules that oblige companies to respect human rights is very urgent, and we in this house voted for that in october. so let’s step up to the mark.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, amendments 97 and 98 speak on the impact of the uk’s withdrawal on the eu economy, and it is topical because in the last hour we’ve seen the british house of commons overwhelmingly reject theresa may’s brexit deal in the biggest defeat for any government in british history. this is right. it is right to say that brexit will impact the uk and it will impact the eu, and i do wish that there were a credible deal on the table. so i really don’t know what to do when it comes to this vote on the globalisation adjustment fund. changing the name of the fund won’t change the issue. i’d love to be able to say that this covers the period 2021 to 2027, but this has not one iota of relevance to the uk. how can i say that british meps should simply abstain because it’s none of our business what happens in the european union post-brexit and post-transition and we shouldn’t be telling the eu what to do? how can i say that when anti-democratic forces in the uk have used may’s appalling deal as an excuse to continue to campaign to erode that withdrawal itself? in this case, it’s simply an inefficient use of taxpayers’ money in britain. the globalisation adjustment fund simply means that we’re sending money to the european union to then apply for it back with strings attached, and then to lose two thirds of that from the following year’s rebate. that, mr president, simply makes no sense, and to me the whole premise of this fund is fundamentally flawed.
mr president, i rise exactly an hour since the house of commons voted by an unprecedented majority to reject theresa may’s brexit deal. i rise in a debate about a european fund that puts central european money into places in our continent where people on a big scale are losing their jobs, and it gives them skills and it gives them direction back into work. i rise representing a constituency in the west midlands of the uk disproportionately likely – according to the centre for cities – to find people losing their jobs due to digitalisation, due to platform working and so on; a constituency where our biggest employer, our most important private sector employer, last week, jaguar land rover, promised 4 500 job losses. of course, my constituents in the west midlands will not profit from this fund, not now, not ever.
mr president, disabled people, young offenders and the long-term unemployed in the uk risk losing critical support if brexit goes ahead, due to the loss of gbp 500 million per year from the european social fund (esf). uk youth, which represents 40 local youth associations across england, estimates that when accounting for the loss of funds from both the esf and the european regional development fund, youth services would lose about gbp 160 million per year after brexit. as a member of the eu, the uk receives significant funding for young people, who have disproportionately experienced the consequences of austerity. since the tories took office in 2010, there has been gbp 737 million worth of cuts in the youth service across england. merseyside youth association in my region said that without esf about 800 long-term unemployed young people would lose out on employability support each year, 40 direct staff jobs would go, leaving more than 21 600 vulnerable young people without life-changing support. the people of liverpool voted to remain in the eu. let’s hope that is still possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr barnier, mr timmermans and minister. i would first of all like to start by thanking both mr barnier and mr timmermans for their measured speeches this morning. i thought they were very fair, and people can’t really have much to complain about. let me speak today, as someone who has observed the debate about the uk’s membership of the eu from both sides of the channel over the last few years, as someone who has regularly spoken to individuals on both sides of the negotiating table and at times suggested solutions to unlock some of those difficult issues, and as the leader of the ecr group, that not only tells you what we are against, but offers alternative solutions. since becoming an mep, one of the things that has struck me about the uk-eu relationship has been the gap in perceptions between both sides of the channel. many in this house believe strongly in the post-war 1950s model of political integration, while for the last 40 years in the uk, the political class has often sold the eu more as a trade area, often neglecting to mention or downplaying the goal of political integration. the fact that politics is often about perception is equally true when looking at the withdrawal agreement. on this side of the channel, the eu has been very clear – while they would not seek to punish the uk for leaving, they say that being outside the eu cannot be seen to be as good as being inside the eu. you in the eu have taken a tough stance in negotiations, not only because it is a good thing for negotiators to do, but also to make sure that any deal acts as a disincentive to other countries that might be thinking of leaving. most people in this parliament are happy that these negotiations or these objectives have been met, but have also stressed to me that compromises have been made along the way. some worry that the backstop could give an unfair advantage to uk companies accessing the single market. others are concerned that it may affect the ability of the eu to conclude future trade deals with other countries, and they tell me that they hope that a backstop is never needed – a sentiment often repeated by speakers here. let me tell you that in westminster, opponents of this deal see it very differently. there is, once again, a gap in perceptions. they see a withdrawal agreement with legal obligations that they believe could bind them to a customs union forever. they refer to briefings from commission officials who have told the press that the customs union will form the basis of the future relationship. they see the text on the future agreement as a list of aspirations, with no legal obligations to move towards a future trade relationship or future relationships quickly. they are concerned that while the eu treaties have an exit clause in terms of the infamous article 50, under the backstop they worry about being trapped in a customs union, possibly forever. many of them quote the song hotel california – you can check out any time you like, but you can never leave. they also believe that the agreement shows a lack of respect for unionists in northern ireland, and they feel it does not take account of the views of both the unionist and the irish nationalist communities, as required under the good friday agreement. they also ask me why we need a backstop at all, given that the irish prime minister said that there will be no hard border in the event of no deal. for those westminster opponents, many of whom are normally loyal and considered moderate, no deal is better than this deal. but of course there are other reasons for the results of last night’s vote. as the official opposition, the labour party will seize every opportunity to seek to defeat the government, and, as you see, they’ve already called for a vote of no confidence. but then there are other politicians who think that the public was smart enough to vote for them, yet somehow too stupid to understand what they were voting for in the referendum. these mps aim to disrupt the process in the hope that they can reverse the referendum result. so as a consequence, today we find ourselves in a critical phase of the process. the eu has been very patient while the ball has been in uk’s court, but i’m afraid you’re going to have to wait a little longer while the government faces the vote of confidence, which i expect it to win, and the prime minister holds cross-party discussions to find a realistic way forward that can win the support of parliament. at this point, the eu will face a choice: you can do nothing, and prepare for no deal; you can gamble that brexit could somehow be stopped, or you can attempt to address some of the concerns expressed. for example, you could convince british mps that you have no intention of keeping the uk in the customs union forever and that the backstop, if ever applied, would only be temporary. i understand that you see this as a lot to ask, given that you believe the uk has been offered a good deal, but just as in 2015 when a few tweaks to the renegotiation sought by david cameron might have been enough to change the result of the referendum, it would be a great pity if no further efforts were made to try to reach an agreement that could help the british prime minister to forge a consensus at westminster. we must never forget that this should be about people, not politics. whatever our views, we should remember that our decisions in the coming days and weeks will affect people’s jobs, the success of companies and the growth of our economies. monday’s letter from president juncker and president tusk hinted at more flexibility. let us see, when the prime minister comes back, if we can turn that flexibility into concrete proposals to address the concerns that arose in the lead-up to last night’s vote. only then can we stop looking back at the past, move on from the present negotiations and look to build a more honest relationship for the future.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we support the backstop as the least damaging way forward but it can’t be watered down nor renegotiated. daily, the british government shows contempt for the people of ireland and a complete disregard for the good friday agreement. the part of the british establishment that the dup supports has always been opposed to the good friday agreement. some see brexit as a way to get rid of it. no positive resolution for ireland will ever come from a british parliament. it never has and it never will. in contrast to the frustrating and infuriating circus at westminster, the eu is committed to supporting the good friday agreement in all of its parts. one vital aspect of the good friday agreement presents a route out of this mess for ireland and – mr verhofstadt – it is both legitimate and democratic. it states that once the british secretary of state considers that there has been demonstrable attitudinal change she will trigger a border poll on irish unity. well there has been demonstrable change. theresa may knows that – she stated so publicly – as does karen bradley. the irish government needs to take more account of what the european council statement of april 2017 stated, which was: ‘in the event of a successful democratic vote on irish unity, the north of ireland would remain part of the eu’. that was referred to as the ‘german clause’. in the meantime ireland needs a contingency plan to uphold the good friday agreement in all of its parts. supporting and preparing for the holding of a referendum on irish unity has to be part of that. so let’s de-dramatise that conversation. we are entitled to the right to decide our future without external interference. that’s a good friday agreement provision. so let’s have our say on what union we want to be a part of. james connolly’s words grow in significance day by day. he said: ‘the british government has no right in ireland, never had any right in ireland and never can have any right in ireland’.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, ‘your excellency mr barnier, your excellency mr timmermans’ – these are the terms that the british prime minister used in her begging letter just a couple of days before the brexit vote, and the fact that she actually use those terms is entirely consistent with the entire negotiation. i realised on 8 december 2017 where this was going when, in order to meet a deadline set by mr barnier, an unelected bureaucrat in brussels, the prime minister left downing street at 4.15 in the morning to fly to meet you, and in the run-up to the deadline, she signed up to the principle of the irish backstop. the pass was sold from that moment. it has been throughout a total failure of leadership. but perhaps more significantly, she hasn’t learned or heeded the historical lesson that if you appease bullies, they always come back for more. she has behaved like a leader of a nation defeated in war, and that is why this withdrawal agreement looked more like a surrender document and it was smashed to pieces in the house of commons last night. she of course believed that she’d get some concessions from you today, but it’s perfectly clear from what you’ve said that there are no concessions to come. she is still our prime minister, and that of itself is quite remarkable. if she had any sense of honour, she’d be gone by lunchtime today. there are some here today, mr barnier, who say you have wasted two years of your life. i disagree completely, because you’ve got us now exactly where you want us, and that is despite the fact that 500 mps voted for article 50, which of course makes it very clear that there are two years in which to negotiate a withdrawal agreement, or we just leave. and that was backed up of course by the act of parliament, the withdrawal act, which once again says, unconditionally, that we leave on 29 march. mr president, you say there’s no support for no deal, but then you all thought there was no support for brexit in the first place. you might be surprised how quickly public opinion is changing. mr timmermans, you say this would cause great harm, but if we leave on no deal, if we stick to the law as it is, we become an independent country. i would say to you: what price freedom? i’d be the first to admit that i doubt this will happen, because working in cahoots with you we have mr blair and many other leaders of the british establishment who treat the brexit vote, and treat voters in general, with total and utter contempt. there is a great tradition here, isn’t there – we’ve seen it with denmark and with ireland – where you make people vote again. all i can say is that if we finish up with an extension of article 50, we may well finish up fighting the next set of european elections, and we will fight them. if the betrayal becomes complete and we are forced to vote in a second referendum, you may be in for a big surprise. the british may be a very placid people, very laid back, but i promise you: if they get pushed too far, it’s a lion that will roar. we will be even more defiant if we have to fight a second referendum, and we will win it by a bigger majority. (applause from various quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, we’ve seen two and a half years of an elaborate political charade, based on an entirely false premise, which is that you can’t leave the european union without a deal. there never was going to be a deal, there never is going to be a deal. we’ve seen ms may and her emissaries go back and forward to brussels in order to reach a withdrawal agreement that nobody wants. the remainers don’t want it because they don’t want to leave. the leavers don’t want it because under it we don’t really leave. and what is the purpose of it all, which has now been extended? it is to wear the british people down to the extent where they accept defeat and surrender and the result of the referendum is overturned. not for the first time i found myself agreeing with something that mr verhofstadt said. he said, how to break the deadlock in the british parliament we need a majority in favour of something. absolutely right mr verhofstadt, and in three days. ms may has to come up with a plan b. well, the good news is, there is a plan b – which should have been plan a in the first place – which is to repeal the 1972 european communities act, leave the european union under our law and then to tell you how we are going to repeal and amend 45 years and tens and tens of thousands of bits of legislation under our priorities and under our time-scales. now ms may should immediately resign and hand over to somebody who can become prime minister who really does want to leave the european union, and the british parliament has the opportunity to redeem itself. if it betrays the result of the referendum then it will destroy what remaining belief or faith there is in our democratic system, which isn’t very high to start with. but they can turn things around if they want to. they can take the initiative. they can stop asking you how we can leave and they can start telling you how we’re going to leave. and i can tell you that the british people will never surrender.
mr president, thank you to those from the commission and council for their contributions. last night in the house of commons, mps acted on behalf of the british people and decisively rejected the draft withdrawal agreement. in doing so, they defended the integrity of our precious union, the constitutional position of northern ireland, the unity of the uk’s single market and the uk’s right to an independent future outside the european union. already in this house this morning, there is some confusion around the legal position in the united kingdom, much talk about delaying article 50 or another referendum. let me clarify: it is the legal position that the united kingdom leaves on 29 march 2019. this is the one clear element of law within this whole conundrum. there has also been much focus on the backstop proposal, much ill—informed talk and threats of violence if europe doesn’t get its way. again, i repeat in this house, we in the dup do not want to see a hard border, but the intransigence of dublin and eu leaders in this house in demanding the backstop leaves a no—deal option on the table. by refusing to countenance legally viable changes to the draft withdrawal agreement, these institutions made the result of yesterday’s vote inevitable. all sides have said that there can be no hard border under any scenario. we should now direct our energy to a positive and beneficial negotiation on trade which minimises all frictions at all borders without the controversy of the backstop. ultimately, this is where the answer has been all along, and it is where progress will be unlocked.
mr president, i feel for all the honourable members having to put up with this nonsense and i do apologise for it, but it cannot have escaped your notice that the united kingdom is, in fact, not overly united and is led by a conservative administration that is less united still, sadly. now i represent scotland. our position is clear on these matters: we want to stay. we voted to stay, we want to remain within our family of nations. (applause)colleagues, you have to deal with the united kingdom as you find it, and you have to respect the united kingdom’s constitutional order. i respect that. but scotland’s position on this is clear. there is no good brexit. it’s bad news for scotland; it’s bad news for the united kingdom; and it’s bad news, as well, for the united europe – the european union. my job is not to mitigate brexit, it’s to stop it. (applause)and i’m very proud that there are so many uk colleagues here working across party lines to bring sense to this process. so, two points to close. firstly, we need more time. i apologise for that, but that’s the reality of where we are. if you want to keep us in, we need more time to achieve that. a referendum may well be a way out of this process: we need more time to put that case together and to make that case now that the united kingdom government might just possibly be starting to listen to voices other than its own. secondly, citizens: too many people, the length and breadth of our european continent, are feeling too anxious right now – uk nationals across the eu and eu nationals within the uk. a lot of work on citizens’ rights has gone into the withdrawal agreement. those provisions must be spun out into a ring-fenced agreement now, so as to give those people clarity and certainty over their day-to-day lives. they feel prisoners of a process they do not control and that is not good enough. we in this house, the people’s house of europe, have a duty to our citizens. our commission has done a great deal of work to try to guarantee those rights but, in the absence of complete buy-in from the united kingdom government, we must act – and unilaterally guarantee those citizens’ rights – now. those two steps might be a start to plot a way out of this impasse. i fear it will not come from westminster: we ourselves need to step up. (applause)
may i ask who it is from? (laughter)i will not give mr coburn any more oxygen than he deserves. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from david coburn)(loud applause)
mr president, the eu is sounding a bit desperate today, isn’t it? shutting down debates … carpe diem, ms may. anyway, i would like to thank a few people, mr juncker and mr verhofstadt, for being the eu poster boys for brexit. keep it up lads! i’d like to thank the 17.4 million brexit voters who put ‘great’ back into britain and to remind the eu we are gb plc, we’re not a subsidiary of the eu parliament. yet the largest plebiscite the uk has ever had is being betrayed. we have a remain prime minister, we have a remain cabinet and we have a remain opposition led by terrorist-supporting marxist. what a choice! but the 17.4 million people said we’re better than that, and they deserve better than that. together with our greatest allies, the usa and our commonwealth people, we can trade under world trade organisation rules. we can and we will put the ‘great’ back into britain, the country of thatcher, churchill and the 17.4 million brilliant brexiteers. together we will make britain great again. we don’t need the eu. let’s go out and make britain great again in the great wide world. (mixed reactions)
madam president, let’s be clear about the process that got us here. governing in the interests of the conservative party, and the conservative party alone – and not even being very good at that – has got us to this situation and we very firmly believe that this government has had its day. but that is, of course, a discussion that has to take place in the uk. whichever party is in power, they will find themselves – when it comes to brexit – faced with this choice. you either move away from the eu structures and destroy jobs, destroy life chances, reduce workers’ rights and environmental protections or you stay within the structures of the eu and lose all say and power over what those structures are. that is the fundamental and unavoidable choice when it comes to brexit. neither of those things is right for any country and certainly not the united kingdom. but i want to give you here a message of hope: in britain – thanks to the people opposite and their ludicrosity – we have now got the biggest pro—european movement on the continent. we have millions and millions of people who are prepared now to go out there and defend the values of this place, to talk about in open terms about why we are proud of what the european union has achieved, and will achieve. we will defend free movement, we will defend what the structures of this place have given not just the current generation, but generations to come. the nonsense and fantasies of the people opposite have been found out. there is no majority in the british parliament for no deal but, whether there is a new government, whether there is a new referendum or whether or not parliament has a majority for some other way forward, we must recognise that we might need more time. please do not let the logistics of this defeat the politics of this. we have a chance to turn this around and we need your support and your friendship.
madam president, i watched last night’s historic westminster vote here in strasbourg with my colleagues from across our continent who are deeply concerned about britain’s brexit crisis. many still hope that we will find a way to stay with you all. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support. brexit is a failure of leadership. theresa may has failed to lead the country and instead has responded only to the needs of her own party. jeremy corbyn has failed in his constitutional duty of opposing brexit, leaving half the country in frustration and despair. but brexit is also a failure of solidarity. older generations have ignored the hopes and dreams of our young people. too many british people have forgotten about other eu citizens who are a vital part of our communities, or their fellow citizens who live elsewhere in the eu. so many have had their hearts broken and their lives turned upside down by this process. now that the complexity and the cost of brexit are clear, we have a democratic right to say whether it is still what we want for our country. with westminster in gridlock, it is only right that the decision goes back to the people. (applause)
mr president, i’m going to speak in support of what mr bové said about the catalan prisoners, who, incidentally, have languished for a year in pre-trial detention. these are political prisoners. political prisoners, but the european commission does nothing. the council does nothing. the parliament, as an institution, says nothing, and even mr verhofstadt stays quiet. the european values that we hear about all the time are suppressed, and one wonders why. the likely reason is that spanish governments support the eu project and, somehow, that makes it okay to have political prisoners. this is to be deplored, and the hypocrisy is extremely hard to stomach. i suggest that you people should look at yourselves in the mirror and start campaigning for these political prisoners to be freed. (applause)
mr president, in the committee on budgets (budg), we regularly receive and approve reports on the globalisation adjustment fund. nobody wants to consider these reports because of the circumstances, but it gives us concrete action to assist people who have been thrown out of work in large-scale redundancies. we’ve had them recently from airfrance, from nokia, from almaviva, major department stores in finland, in the retail sector in greece, textiles in portugal and so on. i’m proud of the fact that the european union is able to offer solidarity to people in the most difficult of circumstances. the new multiannual financial framework (mff) will make available around eur 1.6 billion over the course of the years. i accept and welcome the changes in this report that simplify and broaden the scope of the fund, and that move towards proactive and just transition funding. since 2007 to july, there were only 161 cases from 21 member states. unfortunately, the uk government didn’t participate in any of them.
mr president, i support the idea of a european globalisation adjustment fund to help industries and areas in transition and to respond to the challenges of an ever-changing global economy presenting all the challenges that brings, whether it be new technology, artificial intelligence, automation, moving to a low-carbon and zero-carbon economy. i urge colleagues to learn the lessons of recent history, particularly in parts of the uk, where that move has seen people lose good, well—paid jobs in industries like coal mining and steel, with those jobs being replaced with low-paid, precarious jobs on zero-hour contracts. in bringing forward funds, such as the transition fund and the globalisation adjustment fund, i would urge colleagues across the european union to be mindful not just of creating jobs, but to be mindful of the types of jobs we are creating as well. we want good, well-paid jobs with dignity.
mr president, the last time i checked there was not a shortage of food in the european union. the shelves of our supermarkets and our markets tend to be well stocked, but there is a food poverty emergency across this europe, in every member state. we are seeing queues growing all the time at food banks and emergency food poverty projects, many of them now funded by european social fund (esf) monies. one thing we can do to prevent that food poverty emergency becoming even worse in my own member state would be to rule out right now a no-deal brexit because it will not be the millionaires on the back benches of the conservative party in the house of commons that will pay the highest price of a no-deal brexit, it will be the people queuing at food banks who will pay the highest costs of the economic catastrophe that ‘no deal’ will bring about, the higher food prices that will lead to higher queues at our food banks. that is unacceptable. that’s one reason why ‘no deal’ must be taken off the table immediately.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i know that those who fail to learn from our history are doomed to repeat it. i believe strongly in education, but know that education can be and is used to further propaganda. i am concerned that the eu will use this as a way to further propagandise its existence and further make patriotic citizens of nation-states into villains. i know the often-used term populist. let us not forget that the opposite of populist is un-populist. why have you made speaking up for the populace somehow a bad thing, always when they say what you do not want to hear? i am also very concerned about the oft-repeated line that the eu has been the source of 75 years of peace in europe. communication, cooperation and learning off each other often have helped but do not write out the role of nato, of the americans, of the un, and yes, of nuclear weapons, the threat of which have made war impossible. if you must dabble in education, please trust the member states to decide what is best for their children. trust in national education systems and keep political motivation out of education.
mr president, the european union was founded as a peace project following the atrocities resulting from totalitarianism and dangerous nationalism. last year’s european year of cultural heritage promoted positive intercultural dialogue and involved more than six million people taking part in nearly 12 000 events organised across 37 countries. we must continue to celebrate our diversity and common bonds, working in formal and informal education across all age ranges, teaching our difficult history as well as extraordinary achievements. i wish to state that there are still many difficult moments from our past which must be recognised and taught in schools, for example the genocide against roma, and the shocking holodomor, or terror famine, in ukraine which caused the death of 7.5 million people. now more than ever in times of political instability, we must bring together the people of europe to learn the mistakes of the past and work together. as ms merkel said, when the generation that survived the war is no longer with us... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and the commissioner. those of us who have run small businesses understand that it isn’t a lack of profitability that sends a business under, it’s a lack of cash, and thousands suffer from this in the eu every year. last year i hosted an event with the federation of small businesses from the uk on the need to improve the enforcement of the late payment directive, and i’m pleased to see that this report proposes exactly that. linking procurement rules with the terms of the directive – a particularly important measure after the collapse of carillion last year – is exactly the kind of initiative we need. automatic accrual of interest for the public sector: the public sector should lead by example and should pay on time. mandatory reporting requirements for larger firms has been a positive step in the uk, and other member states should replicate this. these are all important steps. the commission should now launch a new public consultation as the next step to strengthening the late payment directive.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it’s an astonishing reflection on the eu’s anti-american sentiment that this report wants the european investment bank to distance itself from the world’s major reserve currency. it’s futile to imagine the eib acting in different countries or raising money from global investors without converting funds from one currency to another, and yet the eu seeks to reduce the eib’s reliance on the us dollar payment system. to what end? merely to virtue—signal the eu’s distrust and opposition to american foreign policy, authorising the eib to lend to iran. the breach of us sanctions was clearly not enough for you, so here we are being asked to facilitate breaking us sanctions yet again. this is no way to conduct relations with your most important ally. similarly post-brexit, the uk would be your best friend, but instead you stick stubbornly to offering us a deal which seeks to annex northern ireland, a sovereign part of the united kingdom, which will remain a piece of the united kingdom, now and forever. (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, to rephrase mark antony’s famous speech from shakespeare’s julius cesar – i have come to praise the management of the european investment bank, not to bury them. the eib’s commitment to proper commercial banking practice and its execution has been impressive. in consequence, the eib now has a stronger balance sheet than, for example, deutsche bank. to declare an interest, the british government, has a 16% shareholding. that holding has a book value of eur 39 billion. we want that value still to be there. it is therefore most important that the adherence to sound commercial principles is not diluted or limited by political imperatives. demands for the politicisation of lending should be resisted even if, especially if, those demands come from the green parties and their hangers-on.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, in this debate the big question is: what are the circumstances in which this will be used? if you’re talking about fraud, if you’re talking about abuse of funds and taxpayers’ money being used badly, then that is one thing, and you’d find no one who more strongly opposes money being used fraudulently. however, if we’re talking about situations where the european union considers that a member state has acted in a way that it doesn’t like and takes what become, in effect, politicised decisions against a member state, then that is very much another. it seems to me there that mr czarnecki very much has a point. one thing that concerns me about this is the procedure of the commission acting and then effectively the council having a month to react to that by qualified majority voting (qmv), otherwise the funds will be suspended. it just seems to me that not so much the burden of proof, but that the direction of it is the wrong way round. you should produce the evidence to prove that something is wrong rather than expecting it to have to be overturned. i fear, mr president, that this leads in practice to a situation where, in effect, you have the unelected commission sitting in judgment on the elected governments. i fear that this is a proposal where the decisions to sanction or not to sanction could be based on a whim or on whether a country is popular or unpopular with the european union itself. but you wouldn’t have the same procedure being used against poland or hungary or spain, so you end up with a situation where, whatever happens, it’s perceived to be politicised. mr president, if the european union really wants to prove a commitment to the rule of law, then surely to goodness it would need to emulate the best practices of those who do follow the rule of law, and that seems to me fundamentally lacking in this proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have listened very carefully to the comments, we will evaluate them and we are interested in the best possible development of our proposal in the further course of the procedure. it is the basis, not the result, of your legislation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it must be clear that if the rule of law is to be demanded from the member states, a procedure at european level must be fully based on the rule of law and must not open the door to any form of arbitrariness or even partiality. that is why in the commission's proposal we have laid down the way in which we must work, how we must maintain objectivity, how we must take account of all information from third parties and from the courts, how we must justify our proposal, how the member state concerned must be heard, how it must be given the opportunity to comment. and the commission is not alone in this. the council and parliament have an important role to play. the council may also reject commission proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you for your cooperation and i am interested in an intensive consultation with the council and parliament in due course.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, the fight against tax avoidance, tax evasion and financial crime cannot be tackled effectively by each country alone because of its cross-border nature, so increased collaboration and a true european response to tax dodging are necessary. unfortunately, in the council, eu governments have been blocking key legislative files that would help ensure fair competition in the common market and make big corporations and rich individuals pay their fair share, from tax transparency in country-by-country reporting, to a common tax base to the digital tax. yesterday, the commission presented the proposal to shift from unanimity to qualified majority and to give this parliament co—decision powers on tax matters. we think that the commission has chosen the wrong instrument to achieve their objective. it is doomed to failure to take recourse to the ineffective passerelle clause, which requires unanimity itself, instead of using article 116. however, it is not the commission, but the member states, that are responsible for stalling crucial legislative tax files. against this backdrop, i present on behalf of sven giegold the report on the fiscalis programme, which witnesses that member states are able to overcome their national egoism to the benefit of their citizens. the fiscalis programme is a success story showing the positive results stemming from cooperation between national tax authorities. since its inception, the fiscalis programme has facilitated and enhanced cooperation between tax authorities within the union. it has helped national tax authorities to accomplish their core task of collecting taxes. so we are happy that the rapporteur’s draft report received broad support from different political groups. we are glad that the majority in this house acknowledges the need for intensified tax cooperation, an increase of the budget and enhanced transparency of the programme itself. there is only one amendment tabled for tomorrow’s plenary vote, and we want to use this opportunity to ask for your support for that amendment. the instrument of cross-border joint audits is the latest frontier for enhanced administrative cooperation between tax authorities across the different member states. joint audits are particularly useful in the case of transfer price agreements, residency or permanent establishment issues and aggressive tax planning schemes. we therefore urge you to vote in favour of the joint s&d-greens amendment, which makes joint audits eligible for funding under the fiscalis programme. we are convinced that this will foster fair taxation to the benefit of all citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can see that there is a broad and high degree of agreement here in this house on the work of the rapporteur, mr giegold, and also on the commission's proposal to continue the fiscalis programme and to continue to apply it in the best possible way in the future, building on the good experience of the past. you have referred to the commission's budget proposal. we propose an amount of 270 million euros in current prices for the next seven years. we think that's enough. more money can always be put to good use. the main issue is the acquisition and maintenance of ict, hardware and software, information and communication technologies. but we will fight for that amount anyway; it should not be subject to any reduction in order to ensure that cooperation between tax authorities continues to be optimized in the interest of preventing and combating fraud and embezzlement at european and national level. thank you for your broad support!
rapporteur. – mr president, i won’t spend much time discussing article 116. i do understand the problems with using that process, but i have to say that, as a parliament that has worked very heavily on tax issues, we are disappointed with the slow progress. we do feel that there’s a breakdown in trust between the citizens we represent and the european institutions if we’re not able to make sure that corporations and wealthy people pay their taxes. we really do need better cooperation between member states to make sure that happens. but in the case of this debate, i have rarely received so many plaudits and so much appreciation for so little work, so thank you very much for that at least. i will certainly pass on all your appreciation to sven. i know he’ll want to thank all his colleagues here for the excellent cooperation that there has been at committee level and the very good support right across the groups in parliament here. we’re hoping that we’ll get that same broad support tomorrow in the vote and that we will be able to enter into interinstitutional negotiations next week, and i will certainly pass on your good wishes back to sven giegold.
mr president, the eu rights and values programme is necessary today more than ever. the fundamental values that underpin our european democracy must not be taken for granted. i frequently give my support to grassroots civil society projects funded by the eu. these are needed to ensure that principles such as the rule of law, pluralism and tolerance are not just words, but meaningful accessible values that enhance society and citizenship across europe. today, sadly, we see the erosion of civil society in orbán’s hungary, where the rule of law is attacked and laws are passed criminalising grassroot support for refugees. legislation against the judiciary in poland is equally troubling. democratic values must be valued and supported, first and foremost, by citizens. i welcome amendments to the report fostering democratic participation as part of european citizenship. grassroots projects encouraging participation in meaningful european democracy will strengthen the democratic processes that hold the eu together. we must push back against negative and divisive narratives and champion eu rights and values, including in the uk, where theresa may has vowed to take us out of the charter of fundamental rights if we brexit. shame on her for attacking our hard won rights. the eu is a beacon for many around the world who live under oppression, and we must nourish it.
author. – mr president, it is nearly two years since mehman huseynov was sentenced to a two year jail sentence on a trumped up charge of slander. as a well-known blogger that sought to shed light on the alleged corruption of those in power there, there’s always been a strong suspicion that the case against him was politically motivated. with his release date fast approaching and the authorities now seeking to press further charges that could see him remain in prison for another five to seven years, those suspicions are fully justified. far from being an isolated case there are claims that only this month there been five similar cases in which new charges are being brought against those whose sentences are about to end. none of this however should come as a great surprise given azerbaijan’s terrible track record for press freedom, ranking 163 out of 180 countries according to the world press freedom index. it is amongst the worst in the world in fact. i’m pleased that we have been able to raise his case today in this house, particularly given his vulnerable health as he continues a partial hunger strike. i strongly support the calls in this resolution for his immediate release and for the authorities to bring no further charges in azerbaijan, which is an eastern neighbourhood country with which the european union enjoys good relations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in my capacity as chair of the delegation for relations with the south caucasus, we have seen a marked change in our relations with azerbaijan. month after month, year after year, the progress that has been made in ensuring that a strong partnership between the eu and azerbaijan emerges can be measured in leaps and bounds. the european union as a champion of democracy, human rights and free speech across the globe should not, and must not ever, turn a blind eye to the mistreatment of any individual by any government. no matter how exciting and no matter how extensive the progress in international agreements may be, we must not abandon the individuals they are designed to benefit. with these individuals in mind, there is much in the resolution that is in front of us today that our parliament must reinforce in its message by calling on the commission, on the european external action service to seek, and indeed azerbaijan to provide, adequate protections for those accused of these crimes, guarantees of medical assistance, access to legal counsel. family visits must be found as a priority for all individuals listed in this resolution. indeed, the strong relationship that we have built with azerbaijan has already paid dividends here, and the granting of access to the eu delegation to visit mr huseynov is a positive precursor to resolving the situations flagged in this resolution. finally, our relations must always reflect our values, but equally they must always have respect for all of our partners.
mr president, a free and vibrant press is a necessary component of any properly functioning democracy. when politicians are able to act without the scrutiny of such an important part of public life, a distance grows between the politicians and the people that they represent. corruption can inherently follow. azerbaijan’s record in this area is poor. they are ranked 163rd in the world press freedom index. mehman huseynov’s case is a saddening humaniser of what that statistic means in reality for those that attempt to lift the lid on corruption in azerbaijan and open up politics to its people. in prison for nothing more than picturing luxury houses alleged to have been gained through corruption, reporters without borders are warning he could die in prison as he goes on hunger strike on trumped up charges that continue to be brought up against him. many more have joined this hunger strike. it is time for the politicians to listen to the people and to begin to address the failures in democracy and to allow the development of a proper true free press for this country.
mr president, the eu’s position on azerbaijan needs to be much firmer. civil society is operating in an extremely hostile environment. ngos are closing down and independent voices are either imprisoned or forced to go into exile. mehman is now on his 23rd day of hunger strike and his situation is very worrying. having been subjected to torture several times, he is in a serious situation. over the past few months, there has been a worrying increase in the number of hunger strikes around the world: leyla güven, in kurdistan and nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe and narges mohammadi in iran, for instance. all are forced to take desperate measures. high representative, the urgency of the situation calls on you to make a public statement and urge the azerbaijani authorities to immediately and unconditionally release mehman. the eu must name and shame any country that blatantly violates its human rights obligations, regardless of the economic ties it might share with the country. i also call on the eu and the member states to impose sanctions, not only on the president, but also on its ministers who, until now, have not been targeted.
author. – mr president, with inflation rates of 122% and the government cutting fuel and food subsidies, the mass protests seen across sudan during the past few weeks are of little surprise. it’s clear that what began as a manifestation of protest against bread queues and a wider cost of living concern, has now morphed into a broader anti—government, anti—regime movement with support across the oppositional divide. furthermore, as president omar al—bashir looks to abolish presidential term limits in a bid to extend his already 30—year grip on power, we have witnessed an increasingly brutal response from the government in khartoum to the continuing protests. that response has already resulted in up to 40 civilians losing their lives – the government itself has admitted to a figure of 24 – and some 2 000 to 3 000 people being arrested and detained. it’s clearly time for al—bashir to relinquish power, being a man that possesses the dubious title of being the only current head of state anywhere in the world with two outstanding arrest warrants issued against him by the international criminal court. as the protests continue, we must remain vigilant of further escalation, particularly given the security challenges that already are present in that region of africa.
mr president, last week, marwa elhaj, a sudanese journalist living in liverpool in my constituency, contacted me because of her concerns about the situation in her country. she tells me that the civil population faces unprecedented levels of violence in the margins of the protests against al—bashir’s oppressive regime, including random shooting. she has documentary evidence. i’m particularly concerned by the situation of human rights defender and blogger yasir elsir ali, who was shot by a sniper in khartoum at the end of december and spent 10 days in intensive care. two days later he was abducted from his home by sudanese security forces and he is now being held incommunicado in inhumane conditions. i’m very concerned for his health and well—being and i call on the sudanese authorities to immediately release him and ensure he is given appropriate medical care abroad. the authorities must also inform his family and lawyer of his place of detention and allow them immediate access to him. his case is very worrying and sudanese human rights organisations are gravely concerned, as are we. high representative, please take all the necessary steps to urge sudanese authorities to immediately release him. meanwhile, i want to thank the people of liverpool for standing with the sudanese community in these difficult times. we will never surrender to theresa may’s hostile environment regarding refugees, asylum seekers and migrants.
mr president, the recent political developments in sudan are deeply concerning. we must respond with sanctions until the oppression stops. it began as a riot over steep hikes in bread prices caused by the government’s cut in wheat subsidies. it has escalated into widespread unrest with daily rallies against president omar al-bashir’s 29-year-old regime. it will not surprise you that the government, led by a war criminal, have met the protests with excessive force by its security forces. dozens have been killed. tear gas has given way to live ammunition being used against the crowds. security forces have arrested and beaten hundreds of journalists, medics, students and political leaders. despite all this, the demonstrations have shown little sign of abating. the situation could grow bloodier as bashir intends to hold onto power at any cost. the deadly use of force must stop, as well as the harassment and intimidation of those of darfuri origin. the right to freedom of assembly, association and expression must be guaranteed, in accordance with international law. we urge the government to immediately release all those detained and investigate all allegations of ill-treatment, arbitrary detention and excessive use of force and to hold those responsible to account. the international community should take measures against the actions of president bashir. let us remember that he is still subject to an international criminal court (icc) arrest warrant for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. i am pleased with the eu statement that actions of the government of sudan will have an impact on our bilateral phased engagement; however, this is not enough. the international community must stop turning a blind eye to human rights violations by the sudan regime in order to stem migration flows. and finally, mr president, it is high time to impose eu targeted sanctions against those responsible for grave abuses and we should review our bilateral cooperation
madam president, just as we are supposed to be raising points of order before this house and indicate which point of order it is, which paragraph, and in order that we don’t delay proceedings. we’re told this on a regular basis, just because i have similar interventions like the previous speaker, could the house indicate to me what rule of point of order that previous speaker spoke on so that i’m able to use the same in future?
madam president, when i meet people who participate in european union programmes they talk about the need for simplification. well, we have some simplification. as a result of this report, we’ve got a reduction in the acronym soup that we have to deal with. we have a single regime of governance and we have 13 services being brought together in a single point of contact. that simplification also provides some flexibility. it provides the flexibility to look for a programme that doesn’t necessarily fit into what was there before. gbp 38 billion of the budget guarantee and another 9.5 billion from national regional partners are just a start. the prize is the investment that that will leverage – eur 650 billion is the commission’s estimate. it’s a fund providing investment that direct commercial investment cannot. investeu brings together public and private investment in a genuine partnership for the future of economic growth.
madam president, the european union’s approach to central america shows an organisation that is as concerned with exporting its ideology as any revolutionary regime – jacobin france or bolshevist russia or any other new organisation that wants the rest of the world to copy it. because all of the eu’s treaties with the central american region have been based on the principle that there must be regional integration everywhere else, that it needs to be bloc-to-bloc and that they don’t want to do trade or aid deals with individual nation-states. central americans have been pushed into forming supranational associations, including parlacen, a supranational parliament. i can understand why this has happened. i’m sure people here genuinely think that regional associations are the way forward and that is valid to try and push the world in that direction. and yet, the awkward truth remains that the flow is the other way. in the 1950s when the eec was set up there were 80 countries now there are 200. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we were too slow to act on hungary and now the council must urgently follow up on the article 7 procedures, because our shared european values of liberal democracy matter. so let us say it like it is: a university has been forced out and academic freedom is no more, the independence of the judiciary has been threatened, minorities mistreated. morally and strategically we must not tolerate the far-right populists, for if we do not act, we become complicit in moving the centre of gravity of politics. we saw it in the language used about refugees swamping europe, which was tolerated. it moved from the extremes to normal public discourse taking opinion and policy with it. we see it in our history too and the ultimate horrors of world war ii. appeasing those whose principles that we despise never has worked and never will.
madam president, the political chaos of this week leaves two groups of people with continued and real uncertainty about their futures, eu citizens who live and work in the uk and uk citizens who live in other member states. these people are doctors and nurses, builders and plumbers, teachers, academics, public servants, business owners and entrepreneurs. they are also mums and dads, grandparents, brothers and sisters, students and schoolchildren. these are real people. this is not an abstract set of issues, so i call upon this house, the european union and the uk government to resolve this to safeguard these people’s rights without delay.
madam president, i voted for this report, along with a large majority of the european parliament, and was glad to do so. late payment for their goods and services is a major problem for smaller companies in practice. according to the federation of small businesses in the uk, up to 85% of small businesses report that they are sometimes paid late. seventeen per cent say that late payment happens even after the 60-day default position in the late payment directive. this is completely unfair and a serious business risk for those negatively affected. our report highlights the failure of the late payment directive adequately to tackle the issue. loopholes in the directive unfortunately allow for late payment to continue. so i welcome that we’re calling today for legislative action where necessary and appropriate to take a firmer approach against those who do not pay in time, and to pay particular attention to procurement and other processes so that smaller businesses promptly get the money they are owed from public-sector organisations.
mr president, it’s not very crowded this debate and many speakers here, of whom i’m not going to be one, have spent a lot of time on their speeches. may i perhaps, on behalf of the peoples of europe, request that you be less aggressive with the hammer on reducing people’s time? it’s really not necessary today, really not necessary and you should know better.
rapporteur. – mr president, that was all very interesting, but not entirely relevant to the procedural point that was moved, which was to shift the debate, and presumably the vote, of course, on this report to a subsequent part-session on the grounds that there hasn’t been enough time to consider this report. i would remind the house that this report was drafted by a working group of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), a working group in which every group was represented. it then went to the afco committee as a whole. it has now come before parliament. it is subject to amendments in the usual way, as with previous rules reports, as indeed with most of our reports, there are amendments that come up and new compromises that emerge at the plenary stage. it was already postponed from december to january i. it was postponed from january i to january ii. i wonder whether he’s taking a leaf out of the book of mrs may about kicking the can down the road further and further and further until there is no time left to deal with it – maybe that is what is intended by the efdd group? in any case, i recommend that parliament do not follow that. (mixed reactions)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i’ve heard five speeches this afternoon describe the efforts made to negotiate the withdrawal agreement and how good it is. but i’m sure you will all have noticed that this very withdrawal agreement was rejected two weeks ago in the house of commons by an overwhelming majority, so now is not a moment for rhetoric but for reflection. it was never going to be easy to disentangle the united kingdom from the european union but there is now a clearer road ahead, if we choose to take it. i know there are some here – elmar brok – still hoping that the uk will stay in the union and are taking positions based on that hope. but this is not going to happen. it would be wrong in principle to ignore the referendum result and, in practice, it is clear there is no majority in the house of commons in favour of such a course. the amendment designed to secure a second referendum was withdrawn as it had so little support. the british government and the house of commons wants to leave the eu in an orderly manner and with a deal, and to achieve that we need to change how the protocol on northern ireland operates. we must do all we can to support the good friday agreement, but it is a paradox that the backstop, whose purpose is to avoid a hard border, may in just 58 days’ time be the cause of creating such a hard border in the island of ireland. let me repeat, the backstop in its current form will not prevent a hard border, it will create it. let us all pause to consider this: it may be very easy to sit down to great applause today for a rigid defence of an existing position. history may not be so kind. because as things stand, we don’t have a deal. there is no deal until both sides have approved it according to their law. and it is simply not good enough to repeat ad nauseam that the deal cannot be amended. that leads to no deal, and that leads, as the commission confirmed last week, to a hard border between the united kingdom and ireland. so it is my hope that even at this late hour changes or additions can be made to bring a deal safely home. as mr barnier said: ‘in the event of a no deal the eu would find an alternative operational way to carry out checks and controls without putting back in place a border’. that’s a quote. let us look at that now. let us consider whether time limits and exit mechanisms offer a solution. let us proceed with good will, remembering that flexibility and generosity are not signs of weakness but of strength. for what is at stake is not just the draft agreement. at stake is the future partnership between the european union and the united kingdom. let us ensure that we can construct a long—term relationship to promote our common values and our shared interests in an uncertain world. let us find a way to move forward together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, westminster is in meltdown. the internal contradictions of brexit were laid bare last night. brexit was never anything more than a bunch of slogans. it could never be turned into a coherent negotiating position. as we play out the end-game and the brexit fraud is revealed, its supporters dream up fantasy deals so that failure can be blamed on brussels. but we must hold our nerve through this westminster chaos. a majority of uk citizens know that the best future for our country is inside the european union. here we can continue to be part of the world’s most successful peace project, and together we can tackle the huge cross—border issues we face, most notably climate change. we are now the majority and, as young people reaching voting age want to join us in improving our continent in mutual friendship, so our numbers grow. now that mps have rejected no-deal, the clear choice is still between the deal negotiated between the uk and the eu, and remaining in the eu. this choice must be given back to the people. the hostility of the supporters of brexit – as we see here – to such a democratic check proves that they are running scared because they know, as i do, that the will of the british people has changed and has turned against them and their brexit chaos. (“rubbish” from the right of the chamber)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, public opinion and, indeed, public anger had a big impact on those votes in the house of commons yesterday and with it, we’ve seen a diminution of the risk of a second referendum for now, the prospect of article 50 being extended taken off the table and when i hear speakers – despite the spelman amendment – saying today they’re worried that the risk of a no deal has increased, you’re right, it has, but not because of what happened last night in westminster, but because of the response, gentlemen, we got from you this afternoon. even when the prime minister actually gets a majority behind her and, alright, i accept she made a dreadful mistake by signing up to the backstop. you summoned her. at 4.15 in the morning, she left downing street, she went to meet the ultimatum that you’ve set her, she signed up to something that has proved to be a disaster. she signed up to something that no country – unless it had been defeated in war – would have signed up to. we now realise that mistake and actually, the house of commons, the country, is overall looking for a deal, but do you know something? before the referendum, no one knew who the european commission were. that maoist barroso was a complete unknown. you guys are now household names and what we’ve seen is an appreciation in britain that unelected bureaucrats in brussels have been talking down to and humiliating the prime minister of our nation, and we don’t like it and even when she comes back, trying to be reasonable, saying let’s renegotiate, you’re not prepared to give an inch. the reason that a no-deal brexit has got a little bit closer is because of the sheer language and attitude, not just from the commission, but from many in parliament towards the united kingdom. i think public opinion will be very, very angry that there is no give today from anybody in brussels whatsoever. i think many will say, ‘we’re simply dealing with fanatics who are not prepared to be reasonable or make any sense of compromise’. of course, theresa may has made compromise after compromise, way too many compromises in my view, so i think we are beginning to think that the public will come to a view that no deal is better than the backstop, and that’s a big problem. it’s a big problem for all of you, who want to get re-elected in a few weeks’ time, because no deal means no gbp 39 billion and your voters will be coughing up the money. no deal means the hundred million bottles of prosecco we buy every year from italy will become more expensive, as will three quarters of a million german cars. so why don’t we all prepare sensibly for a no-deal scenario? why don’t we prepare to go to the world trade organisation, use article 24 so that we can, after we leave on march 29, have a two-year period of no tariffs, no quotas, no restrictions of any kind, no problems or difficulties with ireland whatsoever? brexit will have been delivered, you will have protected for at least two years your voters. that, ladies and gentlemen, right now, is the only possible constructive way forward. (applause)
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, the last two-and-a-half years have been a long and tedious series of spurious impediments put up in order to prevent us leaving the european union, as exemplified by the classic backstop bull. the house of commons rejected the so—called deal and sent mrs may back to renegotiate with a commission that has already told us that it won’t renegotiate. the commons may have rejected the amendment to extend article 50 but it knows very well that the withdrawal act itself allows that date to be put back, and the council of the european union can extend article 50 if it so agrees. will we actually leave on 29 march? or will the british political establishment manage to overthrow the result of the referendum altogether? the best thing that can now happen is if we have no-deal on 29 march and that we leave under the withdrawal act and on wto terms. article 50 will have expired and the treaties will cease to apply. if the british parliament prevents this happening, then they will have put themselves in open rebellion against the british people and that will have profound consequences for any belief in democracy that is left in the united kingdom.
madam president, today is a good day for brexit. today is a good day for british democracy because over the past two years our government has lost its way. instead of negotiating effectively, it compromised weakly. the eu wanted to trap britain in a backstop deal that makes us pay money, yet stops us competing against them on the world stage. the eu worked and encouraged remain collaborators in this house and westminster. it invited devotees from blair to ‘chuckling’ umunna, flowing like champagne at an islington remainer’s wake. the constant negativity stalked us, weakness cowed us, division delayed us, but weakness no more. despite this, the british people were not for turning. they value their vote over project fear. they do not fear a wto deal but relish an independent future. and the british government has finally caught the mood and got on the freedom train. they finally understand our desire for independence, our fight for self-determination, our belief in our nation state. by uniting last night, the conservatives are succeeding in releasing our spirit of belief once more. we will leave the european union. we will have brexit. and we will be an independent nation once more.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, with venezuelan inflation at a staggering 10 million percent, with three million people having fled the country and the security forces under maduro’s direction employing ever more authoritarian tactics, the recent developments can hardly come as a surprise. i strongly welcome the decision of juan guaidó to declare himself interim president and i welcome the recognition that this has received from democratic governments across the globe. the eu’s turn is next. the presidential elections held in may of last year have been wholly discredited, marked by a distinct lack of political pluralism, democracy, transparency and the rule of law, as was highlighted by the high representative at that time. such is the strength of opinion across the region that the secretary general of the oas, luis almagro, has gone further, openly accusing maduro of perpetrating crimes against humanity and the violation of fundamental human rights, noting that, whilst diplomatic actions should be the first priority, we shouldn’t rule out any action. diplomatic efforts and dialogue sadly have clearly failed and the recognition of guaidó is the first step in moving to a more assertive set of actions by international actors. i now welcome the decision of the bank of england in my country to prevent venezuela from accessing usd 1.2 billion in reserves held there. i think that the eu should consider mirroring the actions of the us in sanctioning its oil companies, which are being employed by maduro to buy support from the armed forces. clearly venezuela finds itself at a difficult moment and nothing that we must do now must result in an escalation of violence or a military intervention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, like our colleagues from other groups, we utterly deplore the actions of the maduro government. economic mismanagement, the violation of human rights and undermining the rule of law has pushed venezuela to the brink and led to the exodus of three million citizens. however, in responding we must not abandon key principles of international relations: the right of countries to self-determination and the right of people to choose their own leaders through a fully democratic process. latin america has a long and tragic history of intervention by foreign players, motivated by self-interest and greed for its resources. such interests must not be allowed to undermine the integrity of venezuela or put the security of its citizens at even greater risk. the crisis in venezuela must be resolved peacefully and this can only be achieved through political dialogue. we support the efforts of high representative mogherini to achieve this by working with latin american leaders to create a contact group which can facilitate a rapid move towards free and fair elections.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i’ve met venezuelan citizens, refugees from the maduro regime, a country which should be prosperous but whose inflation rate is over 100 000%... or 10 million percent because, frankly, you can’t even measure it when it gets to the stage that it’s got. people are literally starving because of food shortages caused by the maduro government. millions of people have fled venezuela. dissidents are jailed. when 40 people are dead, 800 people seriously injured in protests, when the leader of the opposition is banned from leaving the country and has his assets frozen... this is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in south america and, quite frankly, all our governments should be working together on this. left wing, right wing, centrists, i don’t care, either you believe in democracy or you don’t believe in democracy. and when maduro is saying today that they can have presidential elections in 2025, those who side with maduro are siding with tyrants and dictatorship. and it is a source of shame for the uk, mr president, that i see the shadow chancellor in the uk signing a letter speaking out against regime change in venezuela. that jeremy corbyn, who has many times hailed venezuela as a beacon of socialism, does nothing and leaves his previous support for that regime unchallenged. the international community really should be united on this. i’ll finish, mr president, in spanish. maduro no es un presidente legítimo: es un tirano; y hay que cambiar el régimen en venezuela. ingleses, españoles, americanos, europeos, debemos todos reconocer la verdad. la solución es la democracia.
in writing. – like many others here, i am concerned as to the state of cross-state relations between china and taiwan. the current situation is both concerning and unnecessary and i believe all parties should seek to resolve any differences through peaceful means, on the basis of international law, and to refrain from taking unilateral action to change the status quo. above all that means china putting an end to its military actions in the taiwan strait. to that end, i fully support taiwan’s meaningful participation in relevant international organisations and a resumption of official dialogue between beijing and taipei, both of which are in the best interests of all concerned. numerous european parliament resolutions have stressed the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the asia-pacific region, which is of substantial interest to the eu and its member states, and for that reason i urge the eu to continue its efforts to support the development of peaceful relations between china and all its neighbours, notably taiwan.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, thank you for your support for rugby. i do hope you will come and support my rugby union world cup event that i’m hosting on 19 february. but dear colleagues, we are here to discuss something very important. the ecr strongly advocates free trade with all of our trading partners, not least our largest trading partner, the united states. and we supported the ttip negotiations, and our preference is always to negotiate comprehensive free trade agreements that liberalise trade in goods, services and procurement. nonetheless, given the current circumstances with global trade tensions, i welcomed the july eu-us agreement not to impose further tariffs on each, whilst both sides scope out the room for negotiation. and the ecr continues to support the commission’s action to begin negotiations with the us. having two separate agreements with the us – one on tariffs on industrial products and another on conformity assessments – provides a clear structure to negotiations. on the industrial tariffs negotiations, it is particularly welcome news that the commission’s mandate for negotiations includes auto products, owing not least to the reciprocal interests of exporters on both sides of the atlantic but also to ensure the compatibility of any agreement with gatt. on conformity assessments measures, the duplication of procedures to demonstrate conformity is a significant trade barrier to sme exports in both the us and the eu, and we must look at this. i would add that one crucial condition for these negotiations is that they cannot be successfully concluded without the tariffs on steel and aluminium being removed.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, today this parliament marked international holocaust remembrance day where meps remembered all who were slaughtered in one of the world’s most horrendous genocides. among those are the roma, who were, and still are, marginalised in every sphere of society. like other groups, the roma were rounded up like cattle in an attempt to wipe them out. today roma face discrimination in education, health and social welfare systems so they need more than integration strategies. in the north of ireland, particularly in belfast, the roma community face racist slurs, abject poverty and attacks every single day. entire families live in fear in their homes. this is utterly reprehensible. i condemn all those who exploit and profit from the systematic discrimination of the roma. we need to break the vicious cycle of oppression and exploitation that the roma face by tackling it at source. after all, injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. (applause)
mr president, this week as we commemorate the holocaust, we should take the time to remember all roma and sinti victims of this tragedy. their erasure from history books shows how little consideration is given to their suffering. witness, for example, the site at lety in the czech republic, which was, until recently, a pig farm. to this day, the widespread and systematic discrimination faced by roma people is one of europe’s greatest shames. the social issues faced by roma and sinti people, such as unemployment, poor access to education, health and housing, come from a particular form of racism called anti-gypsyism – essentially this is a human rights issue. it’s time to stop ignoring the problem and focus all our efforts into combating discrimination and stigma, taking positive measures to support and uplift our roma siblings. it’s also necessary to tackle multiple discrimination that many face, such as roma women, who are marginalised because of their ethnicity and also because of their gender. and as a children’s rights campaigner, i want to highlight the plight of roma children, who are unfairly treated and segregated on a daily basis in the eu. we can see from the award—winning roma versitas organisation that through support and training, roma children and youth can achieve against all the odds.
mr president, speaking as a grandson of a romany gypsy, i have to say that her majesty’s government’s failure to produce a uk national roma strategy is a clear indictment of their lack of willingness to tackle the inequalities facing my country’s gypsy, roma, traveller communities. instead of the current review of the eviction powers taking place in the uk, which will probably only lead to a further consultation process and more indecision, the time has come to properly address serious issues such as the lack of accommodation and negotiated stopping sites, and poor access to health care and education, which british gypsies face on a daily basis. a ‘one cap fits all’ approach to romany, showmen, travellers, roma and new age travellers is never going to work. it will not satisfy these very different groups nor indeed the british public, who i sincerely believe would come to better understand and respect these marginalised communities were they to be treated as equally as other minorities in my country.
rapporteur. – mr president, this report is the culmination of a year and a half’s work by the committee on constitutional affairs, which set up a special working group that was very ably chaired by mr wieland, with a representative from every political group. our main task was to look again at our rules, two years after the big rules revision that we adopted two years ago. some things needed tidying up, some things hadn’t worked so well – there was the question of this new device of interpellations, which i think we adopted by accident in plenary, and which didn’t sit very well with some of the other aspects of the rules. we’ve tidied all that up. but there are three big issues that have caused some controversy. the first is how to deal with the fact that parliament lost the court case that mr korwin—mikke brought against the european parliament when he was censured and fined by the president for using quite violently inappropriate language. the court ruled that the balance in our rules between the right of members to express themselves and the protection of parliament and the public from hate speech and defamatory speech was not quite right. so we have very carefully, with the help of our legal service, rewritten that rule so that the emphasis now is on the use of offensive language, not so much on the content but on the intent to offend. we have defined that very carefully and we’ve even got a reference to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights so that it covers a wide number of ways in which people may well feel offended by hate speech. we think we have that balance right, and i hope all groups accept what we have done there. the second interesting subject is that of transparency, where we’ve been quite modest but we’ve wanted to increase the transparency in our rules where members are dealing with lobbyists. at one level, for all members, we say that members ‘should’ only meet lobbyists who are on the transparency register and they ‘should’ publish their meetings online. the word ‘should’ is different from ‘shall’. it is not an obligation. it is more a recommendation. but it is an important recommendation for members. we go further, though, for rapporteurs, where we say that rapporteurs, shadows and committee chairs in dealing with a report ‘shall’ – in other words, they have to – publish a list of scheduled meetings that they have had with lobbyists and interest representatives. ‘shall’ but it’s only scheduled meetings. if you happen to bump into somebody on a train or in the corridor, you don’t of course necessarily control that as a rapporteur, but when you have arranged a formal meeting, it should be reported and it should be transparent. remarkably, the ppe group has, i understand, asked for a secret vote on transparency. you couldn’t make it up really. it does seem to me a bit bizarre. perhaps it’s not too late for my ppe colleagues to reconsider. the final issue difficult issue we’ve tried to grapple with is the question of fake groups – political groups that have no political affinity as required under our rules. we had this, you may remember – some people will remember – some 15 years ago when we had a technical group composed of a political party from the far right and one from the far left. they had no political affinity. they were creating a group simply to avail of the resources that you get from parliament – staff, money, speaking time – to use that, but were not acting as a political group within our rules. that may be a situation that repeats itself after the elections. we should protect ourselves and have a mechanism for making sure that affinity – if there is a doubt about it and we are very careful in our wording there to say that parliament normally need not evaluate political affinity – but if there is manifest evidence, then parliament as a whole, by an absolute majority – that’s a high threshold as a safeguard – can decide that a group has not been properly constituted. i think that’s not unreasonable.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank all the colleagues who have contributed, and indeed the commission. i think we are making progress, too, on that other front you mentioned, on the work on the transparency register. this is, i hope, not incompatible with that, but rather complementary. however, there are certainly some misunderstandings. these issues were discussed at the committee stage – they have not suddenly come out of the blue. we had quite long discussions. and, mr sośnierz, we’re not saying that no groups can propose changes to the treaty. of course, they can propose changes to the treaty. but mostly there seems to be a high level of support for most of the proposals in my report. the controversial one, it appears to me, is the secret vote, and i’m glad some ppe group members are not going to support that. on this question of political groups, there is already a requirement in our rules – there always has been – that political groups have to have affinity, as they do in most national parliaments. we have already, on one occasion, dissolved a political group because it did not have political affinity. that case went to the court. the court ruled that parliament was right to dissolve such a group. so it’s not unreasonable to check that this existing provision is actually applied properly and that we have a procedure for dealing with it. in those cases where there is serious doubt, we have to have the possibility of examination – where there is serious doubt and it warrants investigation. creating a political group in the european parliament is much easier than in national parliaments. you only need just over 3% of the membership. if you have that you have access to significant resources: you can effectively help yourself to taxpayers’ money. if you’re not really a political group – if you are a fake group set up just for that purpose – then it’s right that we defend the taxpayer against abuse. this parliament gives equal rights to all its members as individuals, but the right to create political groups in any parliament is intended to facilitate the work of the parliament, so that people can speak on behalf of large numbers of other members, to improve the work of the parliament – so that you, mr president, have an easier time giving the floor to different people, and every view can be expressed in a coherent way. fake political groups do not help the work of the parliament – they abuse the work of the parliament.
mr president, clumber park is a wonderful place, a historic part of the dukeries countryside, a place of significant natural beauty and habitat, including designated sites of special scientific interest. it’s where i went on days out as a child. it’s where i take my daughters today. it’s also where ineos wish to carry out geological surveys for shale gas. the national trust attempted to prevent this through the courts, but the legal process offers limited scope to challenge proposed surveying for shale gas. so i speak today to ask ineos to think again on this and not to compromise the natural beauty and important wildlife habitats in clumber. i also speak to give my ongoing support to the national trust in their efforts to prevent fracking in clumber park. i don’t believe the many, many people who visit and enjoy clumber want to see fracking take place there. it would be devastating to see fracking in clumber and i will do all i can, alongside others, to prevent it.
mr president, i am deeply concerned by the harrowing threats faced by lgbt people around the world. last week jean wyllys, a gay congressmen in brazil, announced he was leaving the country due to death threats. still in brazil, the sickening murder of marielle franco, an lgb activist, shocked the international community, shining a light on the acts of violence against those who dare speak out against the bolsonaro fascist government. in chechnya, the lgbt community is persecuted and tortured in complete violation of human rights conventions, and with the silence of the russian government. these cases reveal that homophobia is seeping into public space and some people in power are actively enabling it. in front of blatant human rights violations, the eu cannot merely wag a finger at the perpetrators. we must condemn homophobic governments and provide a platform for victims to raise their voices. however, the protection of members of the lgbti community must start here. as a british mep, i want to voice my concerns for the members of the lgbti community post-brexit as it’s apparent that the standards of the charter of fundamental rights will be abandoned. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the antics in the british ‘house of chaos’ prove that their commitments to protect the good friday agreement and the peace process are written in sand. theresa may’s objective was to unite the tory party and shift the blame for a no—deal brexit mess to the eu. only 57 days to go, and they’re shredding the good friday agreement line by line. once again, they’re threatening and trying to intimidate the irish people, but we will not be bullied by the british establishment. this parliament has supported the good friday agreement in all of its parts, and that means all the provisions, including the provision for a unity referendum. the people of ireland have a right to self—determination, and we make no apologies – no apologies to anyone – for working to end the partition of ireland. when article 50 was triggered, i stated in this parliament that britannia was waiving the rules and britain was ignoring the democratic deficit in the north of ireland – indeed, creating a democratic deficit by ignoring the democratic wishes of the people of the north of ireland to remain within the eu. a solution to the brexit negotiation mess is the reunification of ireland.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the woman on boards directive is not only offensive but it’s patronising and condescending to those women that have earned positions at the top through merit. how utterly demeaning for a woman to find out she has been chosen for a position due to a quota and not through her accomplishments. quotas signal to women that we are inferior and incapable of achieving success. what about women working at lower levels of companies? quotas do not signify any increased opportunities or promotions, nor equate to more female ceos. despite norway having implemented gender quota laws nearly a decade ago, only 7% of women hold executive roles. where do we stop? where do these quotas stop? first you set a quota between men and women, and what about the under-representation that may exist amongst women? you could endlessly categorise and endlessly quota. yet again, i’m afraid, this is more european eu interference. companies should have the freedom to choose the most suitable candidate for a job, but under article 6 and recital 30 of this directive, there are calls for sanctions, for fines to be imposed and forced dissolution of companies that do not fulfil the quota requirements. quotas do not address nor resolve underlying issues of inequality. they are truly counter—productive. (applause)
mr president, it is astonishing to see that this initiative to push for gender balance on the boards of businesses remains blocked in the council after more than five years. it truly shows how conservative the member state governments can be. it is worrying that this initiative is so controversial. pushing for equality at executive level in companies is a policy that, while important, still remains focused largely on privileged women. it’s no wonder we have so much trouble, then, highlighting the narratives of marginalised women. in the business world, women who find themselves at the intersection of several forms of discrimination face incredible challenges: black, roma, migrant, disabled or poor women are too often forgotten in political spheres, as well as in the world of work and business. following the agreement reached last week on the work-life balance directive, i call on the presidency to put an end to this shameful situation, and focus all its efforts towards finally finding a consensus with regard to women on boards.
madam president, i rise under rule 11(3). according to politico, our distinguished colleague elmar brok finds it necessary to generate cash from visitors’ groups. it would appear that his salary and payment from bertelsmann are not sufficient. i therefore propose that we make a collection in mr brok’s honour. (applause)i would like to set the ball rolling by donating five cents – for the benefit of the interpreters, that’s five centimes. perhaps someone else will improve on that.
madam president, yes indeed, i would like to speak against this. the report before you has been discussed for almost a year in the committee on constitutional affairs. there was a special working group, comprised of one representative from every single political group, which prepared this. it had a high level of consensus, and now it comes to plenary to be voted on and, like any report coming to plenary for vote, it is subject to amendments, and we will vote on those. it has already been postponed from the december to the january i part-session, then it was postponed from january i to january ii. i rather suspect that if we postpone it until february there will then be a proposal to postpone it until march, and then april and then may. this is beginning to sound a little bit like theresa may! (applause)
madam president, i welcome this report that has been brought forward by my colleague richard corbett. i welcome all the recommendations, particularly on the members’ code of conduct, but i specifically want to mention the recommendation on parliamentary questions – that they should be answered within six weeks. in an answer to a question that i asked the commission about questions last year, it stated that just 32% of written questions to the commission were answered within that six—week timeframe. now i don’t know where members of the commission went to school, but i’m sure in anyone’s book 32% is not a particularly impressive or acceptable grade. on this the commission is going to have to do better. so when these recommendations are discussed in interinstitutional discussions, this is something parliament i think has to take a strong position on. questions are an important mechanism for us as members in holding the commission to account and seeking information to support our work. 32% last year is not good enough; the six—week limit is important.
madam president, the debate has tended to focus on the plans here to make life harder for small groups: groups that challenge the orthodoxy or represent dissident opinions. no surprise here; i think even my federalist colleagues will admit that this has been the theme of the reforms of this parliament over some time. despite all the rhetoric we get about tolerance, there is an intolerance of people who run up against the challenged views on european integration. but i just wanted to draw the house’s attention to amendment 14 of the parliament’s rules of procedures, which is a deletion, and one of the lines deleted is this one: ‘the application of this rule shall not otherwise detract from the liveliness of parliamentary debates, nor shall it undermine members’ freedom of speech’. that’s deleted. i suppose the one argument that could be made is that this house, in its new attitude to free speech, is at least in line with changing mores in europe as a whole. still, what a sad comment for what is, at the end of the day, a parliament. as the etymology of that word implies, it is a place one ought to be able to talk freely.
madam president, i am happy to welcome the proposals in this report as well-intentioned, particularly in the context of meetings with lobbyists. my fear, however, as someone who has worked in the public affairs industry, is that this will prove ineffective, and my further fear is that this will put into the public domain information that is easily distorted by those of less good intentions that will present a false impression of what members are seeking to do. so i urge the conference of presidents to keep this under review. i would add my view to mr palmer’s view on the need to produce answers to questions more quickly. on the question of political groups, we all know that groups like ukip have abused the rules of this place, and it’s right to try to stop them. but my fear is also that that would not produce the result that was intended. on the question of secret ballots on votes on transparency, please: it’s absurd. i support them.
madam president, the obvious question about protecting the eu’s financial interests arises in the context of the eur 50 billion deficit that will be the consequence of a no-deal brexit, and it was very clear in this chamber, listening to the debate yesterday, that that is now the way in which people here want to head. there’s a complete unwillingness to show any flexibility that would result in a deal. and yet i was amazed to discover yesterday that, at the same time, the european commission expects the money to be paid even in the event that there is no deal. the united kingdom was happy to sign up to more than any international court would think was a strict liability for the sake of good relations and facilitating a future trade relationship. but if there is no deal, you don’t get to tell us what to do anymore.
madam president, this report means that, in the event of a no-deal brexit, the .eu domain name will be lost overnight in the uk. it’s something i use and something that the east of england local government partnership office uses. sadly, this is an office that is threatened with imminent closure, as eelga want to pull the financial plug. now i appreciate the huge financial pressures on local government, but shutting the office is foolhardy, throwing down the drain experienced specialist knowledge, contacts and goodwill. because plan a brexit, plan b brexit, hard brexit, soft brexit, no brexit at all: as a region i am sure that we will still want to do business with other european regions. so why put up a ‘closed’ sign on the east of england? so today i urge an urgent rethink. we are a global player in life sciences, communications and manufacturing. so let us do the right thing by our region and keep an office where the east meets the rest of the world.
madam president, credit where it’s due: the approach of this chamber to the venezuelan catastrophe has been exemplary and the leadership of antonio tajani has been visionary on this issue. when i was growing up in south america in the ‘70s venezuela was a country that people emigrated to. when hugo chávez took over in 1999 the gdp per head was still substantially above the regional average. now we have seen the worst refugee crisis in the history of the western hemisphere – more than 3 million people displaced, inflation touching 10 million% annually. extraordinarily, there are people, including some in the socialist and communist groups in this house, as we’ve just heard, who still stand by the discredited tyrannical regime of the chavista—maduro claque. how many times do we have to go through this experience before we understand that the problem of socialism is not some glittering implementation. the story is the same every time. it begins with slogans about the people, it ends in tyranny, poverty and oppression.
madam president, this report rightly raises concerns about certain businesses that escape paying their fair share due to mismatches between national tax systems. we need to stop the race to the bottom on corporate tax levels. likewise, a digital services tax is crucial to ensure that the likes of facebook and amazon pay up until there is a permanent solution allowing profits to be taxed where value is created. madam president, finally, it’s also just been pointed out to me that i may well be the final british mep to ever speak in this chamber in brussels. so let me say that i am proud to be part of the greatest peace and prosperity project of modern times, and good friends never say goodbye. they simply say: ‘see you soon’.
mr president, i didn’t want to get involved in the previous debate. you have always been a strong defender of the right of journalists to be protected, as you’ve shown in debates on the attacks on journalists in turkey and also in venezuela. you’ve also defended the human rights of those demonstrating for freedom in their countries. can we therefore have your assurance that this house will seek to have a debate and a motion about the 12 weeks of attacks by mr macron on people, including journalists, in france, and in particular paris, who are seeking to exercise their demonstrating rights, and about the numbers of journalists who have suffered personal injury and damage as a result of attacks by the stormtroopers set on them by mr macron’s police?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this parliament needs to take a clear position on the future of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty. therefore, we need a debate with resolution on this matter this week. the nato foreign ministers in the munich security conference will be discussing it this week and this parliament should have a position before they meet given its direct and major impact on the citizens that we are all here to represent. the inf treaty has ensured the reduction of thousands of weapons covered by the treaty and it has increased all of our safety. on that basis, we need to support the rules-based order and nowhere is that more important than in arms control. this parliament needs to make its position clear this week and i therefore hope colleagues will support this addition to the agenda.
mr president, in the light of that vote, this report was put on the agenda at a very late stage. under rule 169, members reaching the lower threshold should be allowed to consider their position. they weren’t given sufficient time to consider their position. the deadline for amendments is currently 7 o’clock tonight. i would ask you, in the light of this rather controversial report, if you could extend it by 24 hours at least.
mr president, the investment of eur 180 million that the eu has made available to support member states’ efforts to fight fraud, corruption and other irregularities last march, is a huge step in the right direction. this simply reinforces why each member state needs each other and how the eu can ensure that we work across borders to root out fraudulent activity. we cannot tackle corruption on our own and that’s why brexit would cause the uk more untold problems. we would be left at risk of becoming an offshore island for tax havens. we have a fraud epidemic already in the uk costing us gbp 110 billion. the financial cost of fraud in 2018 estimates that the uk economy could be boosted by gbp 44 billion annually if we tackled it fully. and as the olaf report states, to achieve better results in tackling fraud against the eu’s financial interests the auditors recommend that the commission should put in place a robust fraud reporting and measurement system providing information on the scale, nature and root causes of fraud. we have to continue to protect the people we represent and the values we hold.
mr president, while donald tusk may be praying for a special hell for brexiteers, what he refuses to realise is that many in the eu are already there. what form of hell can be worse than watching the descendants of our wartime enemies seize control of our economy, culture, laws, rights and employment? what special hell sees democracy ignored in the face of profit? is tusk’s special hell like that of the british fishers, forced to watch while eu trawlers rape uk waters? or that of redundant british workers after the eu paid for their jobs to move to another country? and what hell must it be for britain’s armed forces who face having to fight for a foreign flag? the fact is that many europeans already live churchill’s mantra of ‘when you’re going through hell, keep going’. and that is why brexiteers, yellow jackets, greek protesters, the catalonian movement and italian, polish and hungarian nationalists will never be silenced and are all simply keeping going through their own special hell.
mr president, first of all, can i commend the rapporteur for his work on this proposal, especially the strong emphasis on a science-based framework of the proposal. i have always been a strong proponent of the use of scientific evidence when formulating policy. independent science-led policy-making has and continues to be the most effective approach. the proposal also seeks to move closer to a policy of regionalisation. this frankly makes sense rather than adopting a blanket approach. regionalisation has the benefit of delivering specific regulation for specific sea basins. as the uk prepares for its departure from the eu, it is vital we ensure a strong foundation for future cooperation. in this case i welcome the focus on the sustainable management of shared stocks. while there is still much uncertainty surrounding and regarding brexit, for the fishing communities in my constituency of northern ireland, i am hopeful that this proposal would at least deliver some degree of certainty for them.
mr president, i was stimulated to speak after i heard the somewhat outrageous, disgraceful speech by mr hookem who, i see, has already left, which, of course, is typical of ukip meps – they come here, they spout a few words, outrageous words, and then they leave without bothering to hear anybody replying. in fact, when he referred to donald tusk’s comments, fishing is a very good example of those who supported brexit without having any plan about what to do afterwards. of course, if we leave the european union we will still have to negotiate fishing quotas under the un convention on the law of the sea. we have an obligation to negotiate fair quotas with our neighbouring countries. there is no escaping that under any circumstances, and spouting a few ultra-nationalistic slogans is no substitute for actually thinking through a serious policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr ferreira for his report on this important agreement. this is an important step forward for fisheries cooperation and should help to promote sustainable fisheries and sustainable development of the ivorian fisheries sector. the support offered will help côte d’ivoire to develop its blue economy, improve safety on board, improve fishermen’s income and enable fish markets to be built. the commitment by côte d’ivoire to increase capacity for monitoring, control and surveillance is also an important step in combating illegal unreported and unregulated fishing in the region and improving scientific knowledge. given the importance of workers’ rights for my group, i am particularly pleased to see that there is a progressive agreement here which focuses on improving working conditions, especially for women. it will also facilitate the involvement of trade unions and artisanal fishermen’s associations in the region, setting a good example for other fisheries agreements. on the eu side, it’s also an advantageous agreement, which will allow us regulated access to ivorian waters.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the four reports under discussion today present an interesting analysis of the union’s functioning in connection with citizenship and fundamental rights, whilst providing a contribution to the debate on the future of the union on various institutional questions. i cannot, of course, cover every part of these rich reports here this evening. as concerns ms bresso’s report, i would like to stress that this college of commissioners has taken very seriously its political accountability to parliament. cooperation between our two institutions is set out in the framework agreement and in the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making, which, together with relevant treaty provisions, provide a framework in which parliament can effectively exercise its political oversight of the commission. the commission considers that these arrangements have worked well and the benefits of our good cooperation, in my view, are clear. the fact that we have set joint legislative priorities through joint declarations has helped focus political attention on the proposals that matter most in terms of addressing citizens’ concerns and expectations. good progress has been made, too, on various institutional issues that are priorities for this house. i also welcome the fact that agreement was reached on non-binding delineation criteria for delegated acts and implementing acts, and i hope that tomorrow’s trilogue will result in agreement on the alignment to the lisbon treaty of empowerments and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny in approximately 60 legislative acts. as concerns parliament’s proposal on the right of inquiry, while sharing many of the serious concerns expressed by the council, the commission, as always, stands ready to engage constructively and find appropriate solutions. the unanimity rule has, in some cases, hampered effective decision making and timely union action. the commission has therefore called for the use of the ‘passerelle clause’ to move to qualified majority voting in certain areas of common foreign and security policy, taxation and the environment. in the taxation area in particular, this would also mean less need for recourse to enhanced cooperation, which is the subject of mr lamassoure’s report. i certainly agree with him – and i remember fondly the time we spent working on the lisbon treaty – that the treaty is not being used to its full potential today. many things are still being ignored or not used to full potential. the commission welcomes these two reports that actively promote the debate on the union’s future institutional development. i have to note, however, that treaty change is not currently on the agenda and that many of the ideas would affect the interinstitutional balance or the prerogatives of the other institutions. turning to ms pagazaurtundúa ruiz’s report on european citizenship: our two institutions have been close allies in promoting and defending european citizens’ rights and the rule of law. i have to say that the rapporteur has always been a staunch supporter of the commission’s position, and i want to thank her for that, on behalf of the commission and in a personal capacity. the commission remains fully committed to the union’s accession to the european convention on human rights. the consultation process to address the legal issues raised by the court is making good progress, but is not yet completed. then, if we resolve that, there remain some issues to be resolved in the council of europe as well. i am grateful that, like the commission, this parliament has consistently kept questions of the rule of law high on its agenda, although all of us would have strongly preferred that this had not been necessary. the commission will present an initiative later this year on strengthening the rule-of-law framework in the light of experience and will take good account of your views in this regard. many of you have worked very hard on this. the commission has taken action throughout its term of office to promote the democratic rights of citizens, culminating in the package of proposals in september to enhance transparency, combat disinformation and ensure that individual data is not abused, in the context of the upcoming elections. the recent agreement on the amendments to the statute of european political parties is very welcome indeed. the commission has also recently published a report on investor citizenship and resident schemes – so-called golden passports and visas – and will set up a group of experts from member states to improve the transparency, governance and security of such schemes. finally, with regard to the charter of fundamental rights, ms spinelli’s report is right to point out that, regrettably, the charter is still not being used to its full potential. far from it. upholding common values and fundamental rights is a shared responsibility of local, regional, national, european and international actors and institutions. we all need to work together. the commission is using a wide range of instruments to ensure the full effectiveness of the charter. these include infringement proceedings to address values-related violations of eu law by member states, audits and investigations relating to the use of eu funds, and the european semester to monitor national justice reforms. we agree with you that, ahead of the elections, all the eu institutions should make an effort to promote the benefits of, and advances made on, european union citizenship and respect for the charter of fundamental rights. beyond that, our energies in the coming weeks should be focused on delivering on a positive agenda by securing good outcomes in the pending legislative negotiations. the commission welcomes the energy and commitment of this parliament. the romanian presidency will continue to engage actively and constructively with you to deliver concrete results across all areas of the 10 priorities of the juncker commission, priorities that were established together with you. together we should show, ahead of the elections, that the union is able to deliver concrete results and respond to citizens’ expectations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, yet again the british government is breaching eu citizens’ rights. a provision of the good friday agreement recognises the right of people born in the north of ireland to be irish, british or both. yet the british government never implemented these provisions, concealing that fact under eu law. emma desouza, an irish citizen, has had a legal battle with the british home office since 2015. they are refusing her american husband residency. emma holds an irish passport, she is an eu right-holder, yet britain’s home office claims she’s british. she is not. last week, the british home office ruled that, post brexit, irish citizens born in the north of ireland will not benefit from retaining eu rights. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i alerted meps to britain’s plot to deny us our eu rights. the british border in ireland, upheld by a one—party unionist state, partitioned our country and denied us our basic rights as citizens. we will never, ever go back to that.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i won’t try to speak on four different reports in 90 seconds, but there are some rare moments of agreement between eurosceptics and federalists even, when it comes to the european ombudsman and holding eu institutions to account. but what troubles me most is the report on european citizenship. it seeks to impose an eu identity upon citizens in countries across europe. that’s not a european identity – you can feel european while still considering these structures, these institutions to be bad for democracy and bad for accountability. and if there’s one thing that we should realise by now, that should be absolutely obvious by now, it is that the state cannot impose identity on the people. we’ve got more calls for taxpayers’ money to be spent to attack any anti—eu dissenting voice. and when you define pro—eu as being good and anti—eu as being propaganda, when the state dictates speech and opinion, you erode democracy. and then to cap it all, there is the suggestion that europe day – 9 may – should be made into a bank holiday across europe, to bribe voters with a holiday to like the european union more. don’t get me wrong, in the united kingdom especially we definitely do need more bank holidays, but i wonder whether 29 march or 23 june might be a little bit more fitting.
mr president, i am a proud european and i am happy to say that that does not devalue my british citizenship, for me it only enhances it. i like having multiple identities. but if brexit happens and the uk is no longer a member state, i will no longer be a citizen of the union and nor will 68 million others. and it’s important for you to bear in mind that only 17.4 million voted to lose their eu citizenship. european citizenship has no equivalent anywhere in the world. it’s one of the finest achievements of the european union and it should be celebrated. it has allowed us to travel, work, study, trade and fall in love across 28 borders. losing our eu citizenship will be an enormous loss to the british people, to its businesses and the services that we provide with our closest neighbours. the uk government has promised settled status to all those who have come to the uk legally under the derived rights of the eu law, but sadly this is not the case. i need just to finish with this: with less than 50 days to go, the rights of zambrano carers are still not resolved. so, with thousands of families in limbo, the uk government should immediately honour their rights.
madam president, we have seen unprecedented demonstrations in france over the last few months by the yellow vest movement. now this is not a protest movement isolated to france, but it is the most forceful and visual across europe. why are they protesting? because of the loss of democratic accountability, because of an oppressive tax regime, because their living standards are being driven down, and because of mass uncontrolled immigration that is changing european nations into something unwanted and unrecognised by their native inhabitants. above all, it is because of a political elite out of touch with their own citizens. this is exemplified in france by the bankers’ president mr macron. mr macron is a figurehead for the european union. throughout european history, there have been peasants’ revolts against oppressive regimes. the eu is the ancien régime of the modern age, and no amount of state brutality can prevent it being swept away. vive la révolution.
madam president, the right to peaceful protest is a key feature of the exercise of democracy in modern societies, and is enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. i am therefore increasingly concerned by reports of excessive use of violence against civilians during protests. i believe it’s the duty of governments to determine accurately the balance between ensuring citizens’ safety and providing for a safe space for freedom of expression. this also means that law enforcers must be held accountable in all actions undertaken towards citizens in the midst of peaceful protests. however, the proportionate use of force should be understood not only as preventing any form of physical violence. the fact is that dissident voices can be threatened in more dubious ways, such as wrongful incarceration and intimidation. in my own country, the united kingdom, 15 anti-deportation activists were recently convicted of terror offences for attempting to stop the deportation of 60 vulnerable immigrants from the uk. i believe this course of action results from a broken justice system and an authoritarian government, and it’s unworthy of a modern, progressive country.
mr president, europe and the european union is at a crossroads. populism is on the rise. people are feeling that the systems and institutions no longer serve their interests. as elected representatives, it is for us to restore that faith. we must make sure that collectively and collaboratively we work for the interests of the people we represent, whether that be by ensuring that the loopholes for tax evasion are closed, strengthening human and workers’ rights, continuing the peace project that is europe or ensuring balanced trade deals with countries with whom the eu has the same values – and not undermining human rights while we do it. now more than ever we need closer ties between eu member states, working on social cohesion, security, tackling climate change – continuing to strengthen peace at the heart of the eu project. the uk is sadly attempting to leave just when it needs to be a part of the european project, leading not leaving. as robert schuman said in 1950, europe will not... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – mr president, i was pleased to see this report adopted in committee last month and i thank my shadow rapporteurs for working with me to produce a good result. this report sets out parliament’s position on artificial intelligence (ai) and robotics. members may not be aware that parliament originally agreed we should do a report on this subject in april. we spent the next six months arguing over who should be the lead committee, so work only started in october. this then left us only four months to write the report and bring it to plenary. that was a shameful waste of time. if there is one lesson i have learned from this process, it is that parliament should rethink how we deal with these situations. we’ve had to work at great speed, and i’m glad that we’ve been able to get a substantial report through within such a short time frame. i wish to record my thanks to my assistant, lavan, for his hard work. my main objective has been to ensure that this is a positive report that signals our willingness to adopt this technology and provide the correct conditions for it to thrive. we are at the beginning of seeing the adoption of ai and it will take many years before we see its full potential and reap the full benefits of it. it can make us more prosperous, healthier and create jobs that currently don’t exist. an example that i have used throughout discussions on this file is that it took the best part of 200 years for humanity to reach the full potential of the steam engine. along the way there was great resistance and i have no doubt there’ll be opposition to the adoption of ai. there is, of course, always opposition to change, but let us not stand in the way and be a parliament of luddites. in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), we agreed on the need for a code of ethics to guide the development of ai. this should encourage the good actors and deter the bad ones. working under such a code and ensuring transparency will ensure greater acceptance of this technology. we believe that ai should have a human-centred approach. what is meant by this is that the use of ai should augment human capabilities rather than just replace them. it is sometimes forgotten that when ai and human abilities are combined, they are more powerful than when used in isolation. this has been demonstrated particularly well in the medical field. it is important that we prepare society for the changes ahead through developing education and training. as ai progresses, it will destroy some jobs and create others. we need to ensure that we have a skilled workforce to take advantage of the new opportunities. this will be one of the most important aspects of ensuring competitiveness on a global scale. we should recognise that most of the investment in this field will come from the private sector, not the state or the eu. our member states must work hard to ensure that they are attractive places to invest. one final point i wish to make is that artificial intelligence does not have borders. it will operate between and across the different jurisdictions of the world. we should therefore approach its governance with a global mindset. we must ensure that the eu and our member states discuss this at an international level, and as far as possible develop global standards. i look forward to hearing what colleagues have to say this evening and to a positive vote tomorrow.
mr president, the trans-european network programme is intended to improve communication along strategic corridors. in kent, the m20 motorway is part of that network. two days ago, the uk department for transport (dft) started a month of works on the london-bound carriageway, with night closures between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. gmt. great, you might say – improvements to the channel ports are long overdue. but no, the purpose of the closures is to turn part of the motorway into a lorry park to cope with the disruption of a no-deal brexit. we’ve also seen from the same department for transport the issue of a contract to a ferry company with no ships from a port with no appropriate landing facilities. now the dft has since changed its mind and cancelled that contract. it seems that the dft is allowed to change its mind, but the british people are not. when you are not allowed the chance to change your mind in a democracy, you no longer live in a democracy.
mr president, libraries give access to knowledge and promote the joy of reading, they are an amazing free resource. now nearly a quarter of library users are under-nines, and surveys show that children of all ages give their libraries a big thumbs up, with youngsters living in more deprived communities valuing their libraries even more highly. however, in essex a third of libraries face the chop, in a wanton act of cultural and educational vandalism. and closing the library won’t just take books off the shelves: it will rip the heart out of local communities. this half-term, in threatened essex libraries, we have: ‘discover dinosaurs day’ at danbury library, peter rabbit fun in broomfield, and puppets, singing and a treasure hunt at silver end library. and, week in, week out, libraries host things like rhyme time clubs and provide access to the internet. essex needs its libraries. so my message to essex county council tonight is: ‘stop, think again and shelve this terrible plan.’
mr president, this week sees the biggest comedy festival in europe, which is the leicester comedy festival, in my constituency, and i congratulate all those involved in it. however, brexit is no joke for those working in comedy and music, theatre and the arts. these industries make a huge economic contribution and i know people working across these sectors are worried about the potential impacts of brexit. the ability to travel and perform freely across the eu is essential. potential tariffs and different royalty arrangements would be a bureaucratic headache for artists. a brexit recession, with people having less cash in their pocket, would mean people going to fewer gigs and shows. these sectors are worried about brexit. whilst we know that the british government’s handling of brexit is now beyond a joke, for the real people working in those sectors, these issues are no laughing matter.
blue-card question. – mr lins criticises my colleague martin häusling, and says that copper sulphate is a dangerous chemical. it is nothing compared to the sorts of toxic pesticides we’re talking about here, which are causing a decimation of wildlife in our countryside – 58% of butterflies and moths lost in the past several decades. does he not understand that if we do not protect these pollinating insects, there will be no food supply for us? we’re next on the extinction list.
mr president, we can split the fashionable objection to pesticides into two categories. the first is human health and safety. there are now a cohort of individuals who have spent at least 30 years handling the concentrated material and being exposed to the vapour. their exposure is perhaps as high as 1 000 times that of the ordinary citizen. some of the products used 20 years ago have been banned on toxicity grounds. these workers, who include myself, should have all died long ago if the scare tactics of the green lobby are to be believed. the second is environmental impact. it is quite true that overuse and misuse of pesticides will harm wildlife and pollute watercourses. their use has, however, allowed world food production to keep pace with world demand, which organic farming methods could not hope to have done. nevertheless, the industry is not complacent about the situation and a big effort has been made to reduce dependency on pesticides by using modern plant-breeding methods to create varieties that require substantially less pesticide use. the reaction of the european green lobby to this successful technology is to ban it. you cannot have it both ways.
mr president, a new global scientific review into the perilous condition of our insects reports that over 40% of insect species are threatened with extinction while our insect populations are declining by 2.5% per year. the review clearly links this drastic decline to the overuse of pesticides. that is why our report on the sustainable use of pesticides is more crucial now than ever. it is being spelt out by the world’s scientists — we need to begin an urgent transition away from the use of these highly toxic pesticides. the report urges eu countries to step up to the mark and take action on pesticides instead of making the empty promises of recent years. we need to reduce the amount of pesticides farmers use, banning the most toxic ones immediately. we need to use integrated pest management and dedicate more of our farmland to organic production. insects are essential for the proper functioning of all ecosystems as food for other creatures, pollinators and recyclers of nutrients. unless we take drastic action now, insects as a whole will go down the path of extinction within a few decades and we can be quite sure that we would follow on closely behind.
madam president, it has been quite a busy few days for côte d’ivoire. the other day, because of a mix-up over flags, it was the recipient of a supportive tweet from the german foreign ministry, which expressed its total solidarity with côte d’ivoire over the issue of the irish border – and now we have this fisheries agreement. look, we’ve all voted on dozens, maybe hundreds, of these fisheries agreements with various african countries, and i have occasionally taken the opportunity to lament the fact that overfishing in europe and the mismanagement of the common fisheries policy brought us to the point where we needed to do this. but i wonder whether we could consider a different aspect of it. again, we are treating côte d’ivoire and the african continent generally as a kind of economic colony and a supplier of raw materials to our industries. under eu tariff arrangements, you can export green coffee beans but not roasted coffee from africa, you can export cocoa but not chocolate. in other words, we are encouraging, through our economic policy, an effect which not only keeps people poorer but also costs consumers in europe more. the best thing we could do is scrap the common agricultural policy.
madam president, i was very pleased to vote for this report which is changing the way that fisheries are controlled in the western approaches. i think everyone here recognises the common fisheries policy over the years has been catastrophic for the european fishing industry, it has led to a collapse in stocks, it has led to unemployment, it has led to untold hardship. pushing control away from a centralised top-down approach to a regionalised approach has got to be the right idea. i’m very pleased to see this being brought in in the western oceans, where of course fishermen from britain are very active. i think it is a shame, however, that the european union still cannot quite bring itself to put control over the fisheries into the hands of smaller entities, of the nations themselves, because it is they who not only understand the fisheries but have a stake in making sure it is sustainable. i hope very much that after brexit we at least will be able to achieve that in britain.
madam president, last week i had the pleasure of visiting the colchester-based business above surveying, which uses drones to inspect solar panels for faults and wear and tear, and then carries out analysis on the large amount of information collected. the company has already detected over 20 000 anomalies which, once fixed, boost the amount of green energy that solar panels can produce. now above surveying are investing in ai machine learning and autonomous processes. this will speed up their analysis and aims to, and i quote their ceo here, ‘take the human out of the loop.’ but far from this being the march of the robots dalek-like, exterminating all jobs before them, the use of ai means that the company can do more, better and quicker, in turn creating more jobs. embracing the future can mean new opportunities for a skilled workforce.
madam president, the use of pesticides in agriculture, horticulture, and indeed in gardening, is absolutely essential, but of course we all recognise that there are some hazards that go along with the use of these chemicals. this is an important report and when it started its progress through this parliament i was intending to support it. unfortunately, as it has progressed, various things have been changed and we have now reached a position where some of the targets, some of the figures that are being used, bear little relation to best scientific advice or indeed to any scientific advice. we are getting figures being plucked from the air by pressure groups, by ngos, and by those with an axe to grind. we even have the situation where they want to control all chemicals that go onto land that might end up in groundwater – which is pretty much all chemicals. sadly, this is an example of the bad lawmaking, which so often characterises this place. it could have been great, it could have been worthwhile. unfortunately, it isn’t, and i won’t be supporting it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, sadly the survival of the brutal assad regime is now beyond doubt, and it appears that us troops will shortly leave syria, which may well leave a security vacuum. with the reports of thousands of former isis fighters still scattered across syria and iraq, as well as the fact that the al—nusra front successor organisation hayat tahrir al-sham (hts) has consolidated power in the province of idlib, the threat of islamist extremism is far from over. russia’s and turkey’s defence ministers met yesterday to discuss the situation in idlib and both sides have agreed that decisive action is needed to curb the advances of hts and ensure that the demilitarised zone is functioning and effective. with some 3.5 million civilians living in idlib, we must spare a thought for the brutal conditions they are currently living under, made all the worse by the constant threat of greater bloodshed given the assad regime’s ruthless determination to retake the province at whatever cost. in what has increasingly become an international affair marred by various proxy wars, the eu looks on this tragedy as little more than an observer, although the eu’s long—term diplomatic relations with damascus under assad will be deeply problematic.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, commissioner, the clearest message that i brought back from my visit to iraq in december was how the tragedy of islamic state’s insurgency ultimately has brought all sides of a divided country together against this evil, helping to create a new national identity. like iraq, syria is a deeply complicated problem and i do have concerns over president trump’s recently announced intention to pull us forces out of syria. i accept how the west’s recent history of intervention in the middle east displayed fundamental flaws in our approach, but we must not allow any vacuum to develop that could possibly be exploited by those wishing to further their own agenda. people such as the kurds must be allowed to remain an important balance in the region, especially in relation to the protection of the various faith groups and ethnic groups across middle east society. we must, of course, be strict with the application of force overseas, acknowledging the clear risk but remembering, without the west and without america, what remains. we must be realistic in acknowledging the world in which we live. if we do not influence, others will, and we will be even less able to guarantee any eventual outcome. we must approach the future of syria – both for the future prosperity of the syrian people and for our own security and influence in the west – in a sensible and coherent manner.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask mr epitideios if he agrees with me that that the example of syria is a perfect example that when people begin from outside to start bombing and have taken military interventions, they say to support democracy and then the russians say they intervene to attack isis, and then someone else intervenes to attack someone else, that this opens the door, it opens up pandora’s box of all of the problems that we now face and at least by mr trump acknowledging and going through with his election pledge of withdrawing, it might be an example to others to start leaving these people alone?
madam president, yesterday, us—backed syrian forces launched an attack on isis’s last stronghold. with fighting intensifying again, i welcome that the local authorities have agreed to set up a transit route near the town of sour so that humanitarian aid can be provided to those in need faster. however, services in the camp of al—hol are increasingly stretched. more critical healthcare services and expansion of water and sanitation facilities are urgently needed. therefore, it’s good that, as the commissioner announced, the eu is hosting a very timely conference to support the future of syria and in the region in march. but i still have questions. how do we ensure that the conference will not just focus on humanitarian aid issues but also mobilises international and, in particular, regional support for a step towards a political solution? secondly, a political transition to the conflict needs to remain a prerequisite to any larger eu investment supporting the syrian reconstruction process. with president trump’s decision to pull out of syria, sdf forces seem forced to collaborate with the syrian state. do we then have to accept that assad is staying, and what impact will this have on defining how the eu can support a political transition?
madam president, on 16 march it will be one year since the young british woman, anna campbell, was killed by turkish forces whilst defending the city of afrin with the ypj. anna was a passionate campaigner for social justice who was so sickened by the terrible protracted war in syria and the untold human suffering that she decided to dedicate her youthful energy to working with the democratic kurdish forces in northern syria, the same forces who mounted the only credible opposition to daesh and assad in the region. it is they who liberated the yazidi people trapped on mount sinjar. it is they who changed the course of the war on a hilltop in kobani. it is they who are now rebuilding society in rojava with women at the heart of a new model of democracy. i know all this not because i read it in a book or a newspaper, but because i led a women’s peace mission there last may and saw the social and physical reconstruction with my own eyes. but, 11 months on, anna’s body still lies under the rubble in afrin and neither the british government nor the turkish authorities had the decency to repatriate her remains. i urge the eu to demand a compassionate response.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whenever i hear of these discussions and reports on integration and bringing in new nations into the eu, i find myself feeling like i’m in my favourite tv series. i’m a big fan of star trek and i don’t know if you’ve ever seen it but there’s an organisation there, a life form called the borg and what they say, they have a quote they use: ‘we are the borg. lower your shields and surrender your ships. we will add your biological and technological distinctiveness to our own. your culture will adapt to service us. resistance is futile’. and they travel around the universe in huge hermetically—sealed, hi—tech, temperature—controlled, artificially—lit structures and what they do is they find a way of creating thralls. people who will become part of them and serve them. now, when we look at this in the terms of the reality here, we have a situation where the eu empire seeks to bring more people in, but they don’t do it with violence and attacking people, of course, it’s done with grants, loans, trade and the promise of betterment. but the point is, when you continually expand in this manner, especially into very sensitive areas like this, you need to be very careful what you do. you also need to be extremely careful of thinking, where is the money going to come from, because you continue to incorporate more and more nations into this organisation and, constantly seeking to expand, you seem to be forgetting that at some point in the very near future you’re going to be running a lot lower on money because – certainly if there isn’t a deal reached soon with brexit – you’re going to be tens of billions of pounds short. so, i think you need to be very careful in what carrots you offer to people before you try to assimilate any more of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the european parliament. president conte. i would like to say to mr conte, prime minister of italy, that it gives me great joy to see him here today. mr conte, the determination of your government to resist the privileged power axis of merkel and macron, and indeed to resist the pressures of the european union elite on show here today who have suggested that your government is racist, fascist, in the cahoots of putin, even anti-feminist and anti-european you deserve applause for that. you have inspired democrats across this continent and the world. your government has demonstrated that europe is not an institution called the european union. it is indeed a continent of ancient nations of ancient peoples: ancient peoples but with modern methods. sometimes they wear yellow vests, sometimes they vote brexit, and sometimes like your five star colleagues they take social media and turn it into political power for the ordinary people. modern methods for ancient voices. but the fact remains that these voices must still be heard. the debate today is about the future of europe. mr prime minister, you and your government and your colleagues are the future of europe. good, good, good. you got it. (applause from the left)
rapporteur. – mr president, well, finally we are here. it’s been over a decade in the making, the free trade agreement between the eu and singapore, but after many twists and turns, we are at last at the final stage. i’d like to begin by thanking the government of singapore for its patience and support, and in particular their ambassador for his good cooperation. i’d also like to thank the commissioner and dg trade for an agreement that i believe we can readily support in this house, and above all, i’d like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for what has been great cooperation. my question to those who are still sceptical is: frankly, what is not to like about this free trade agreement? it builds on canada and japan and sends the message that the eu is committed to a rules-based trading system. while donald trump wants to build walls to separate nations, we are tearing them down, keeping fair and free trade alive. singapore is a safe harbour for eu trade and investment, and what a harbour! an important market in its own right, thanks to its unshakable commitment to the rule of law, it has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world and now has more than 10 000 eu companies based there. many of them are looking forward, as a result of this fta, to expanding their activities and vying for public sector contracts in singapore. singapore is important in its own right, but it’s also of key strategic importance for accessing the asean (association of southeast asian nations) region, one of the fastest growing regions in the world. singapore is a major hub, through which a large percentage of our exports pass, and, with the entry into force of the trans-pacific partnership of 11 countries, if we do nothing we will lag behind those nations. so in economic terms this clearly is a win—win trade deal. in addition to the trade benefits, however, i would also argue that the agreement clearly reflects eu values and positions espoused by this parliament in very many of our resolutions. for example, nothing in this agreement will prevent the application of the precautionary principle or affect the right of governments to regulate in the interest of their citizens. public services are protected: the agreement uses the positive list for services, always the preferred option of this parliament. imports will have to respect eu standards. it contains commitments on the environment, in respect of the management of forests and fisheries, for example, and a commitment to implement multilateral agreements, including the paris agreement. i particularly welcome singapore’s agreement to the early implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapter and the commitment to take concrete steps to ratify the outstanding three core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions. they are serious about this. singapore has already held talks with the social partners, they are already in dialogue with the ilo and they’ve set up an interministerial working group to see how they can bring domestic legislation into line with the three ilo conventions. moving on to the investment protection agreement, i believe this is the most progressive investment agreement we have so far negotiated, and it should be a model to build on for future agreements. i want to thank the commissioner and her team for listening to parliament’s concerns about the old and toxic investor-state dispute settlement system. this investment court system will have a permanent tribunal composed of judges or jurors of recognised competence, not arbiters. there will be a code of conduct for judges, proceedings will be transparent, the system will have an appeal mechanism, it contains a commitment to joint efforts towards a multilateral investment court, and it protects governments’ right to regulate. it is also worth mentioning that this replaces the existing 13 bilateral investment treaties that member states already have. the last point i want to make is that this agreement has one major weakness, which, i believe, should be addressed in future investment agreements. it gives investors rights but it gives them no obligations. we have to look forward to giving them obligations in the future. with that caveat, i’m pleased to commend both of these agreements to this parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu—singapore free trade agreement (fta) is yet another example of the eu’s highly successful global free trade agenda – we’ve just heard about the conclusion of the japan agreement – that is opening up markets across the world for all of the eu’s current 28 member states. as britain stands just 45 days away from leaving the european union, i’m reminded once again of all the disingenuous untruths and false promises peddled by the brexiteers in the leave campaign. one of those was that britain needed to leave the european union in order to strike optimal trade deals with the commonwealth and the anglosphere countries that the eu was neither interested in nor capable of concluding in the uk’s bilateral interest. yet here we are today discussing an eu trade deal with singapore, a commonwealth and asean country, following on from the eu’s fta with canada whilst talks on ftas with australia and new zealand are now in advanced stages. far from the uk needing to leave the eu to improve trading links with the commonwealth, it seems patently obvious that, following 29 march, the eu—27 will enjoy far better opportunities to trade with the commonwealth than the uk will for many years to come. james dyson, the british industrialist and leading brexiteer, has clearly appreciated these benefits as he embarks on building his electric vehicle production plant in singapore and has moved the company’s headquarters from britain to that prosperous city—state. my case rests.
mr president, it is very good that somebody else is passionate about a trade agreement. anyway, singapore is a success story. singapore now has a bigger gdp per capita than germany, but singapore is not – repeat, not – part of a very large trading bloc. perhaps the ill—informed uk remainers will note that basic fact. the eu—singapore deal is a success for free-trade principles and, by the way, to respond to a point made earlier, this agreement has now been signed 45 years after the uk originally joined the eu. the eu’s method of trade agreements is a bit like strictly come dancing: slow, slow, quick, quick, slow. under the agreement, tariffs will be abolished entirely on a wide range of manufactured goods, and between the eu and singapore there will be mutual recognition of professional qualifications. but what the agreement does not require is freedom of movement of people. this demonstrates again that free trade and free movement can be – indeed are – entirely separate. now to brexit. the eu grants singapore the abolition of tariffs but, at the same time, the eu sabre-rattles about a hard tariff border with the uk. for singapore, the eu liberalises trade in services. at the same time, the eu scaremongers about impeding the existing trade in services between the eu and the uk. one day perhaps, the eu will show the same sound commercial sense towards the uk that it is currently showing towards singapore. however, i have to say it’s probable that that day will come only when the current president of the council, donald tusk, finds his own special place in hell. for the record, mr tusk’s planned and toxic abuse will achieve nothing. it doesn’t befit a senior politician and it is not in the least bit helpful. so i recommend to the eu authorities – and i see a distinguished representative here – that they sign a treaty on brexit similar to that entered into with singapore.
mr president, how brilliant to see everyone so excited about doing a trade deal with a dynamic, low-tax, global-facing, island economy! it’s wonderful to see this, and i’ve got good news for you: there’s another one, a hell of a lot closer that you could do a deal with as well, when you finally wake up to reality. the great thing is, that when the uk leaves the eu, singapore has already provided the mood music to say they’re ready to do a deal with us, because dynamic island economies that love to trade with the whole world like to get things done quickly. they don’t take 10 years of monolithic plodding to get to a point where they’re just about to put a report forward. what they do is to talk about trade. they talk about ways to make one another wealthier, and to get products and services moving between them. that’s how it works. they don’t try and impose rules and regulations and nonsense on one another that takes a decade. i’m looking forward to the same kind of excitement about a trade deal with the uk. you’re going to love it!
mr president, singapore is a trusted and strategic partner of the eu and it’s right that we seek to deepen our relations. as the first asean country to finalise agreements with the eu, these will be models for the region and so they matter. trade is a powerful tool for human development, but trade agreements are not per se a public good if the rules of the game they set benefit the few rather than the many and these trade and investment agreements create a framework of rules in which fundamental workers’ rights are dependent on political promises made in the 11th hour, while international investors are guaranteed new legal rights to sue our governments. i can’t support creating new corporate privileges, especially while labour activists like jolovan wham face tough justice when we should be delivering trade justice.
mr president, i rise as a member of parliament’s asean delegation and strongly believe in this region’s geo-strategic importance for the eu. i’ve had an opportunity to discuss this agreement with a variety of stakeholders in singapore, including ngos and independent trade union representatives, and they all support a stronger partnership between us and their country. it’s especially important given that global trade is in a state of flux. the us is rewriting the rules and can no longer be relied on as a stable trading partner. i am fully aware that some of my colleagues have reservations, especially around the ratification of the ilo conventions and sustainability. i, for one, am thoroughly reassured by my colleague, david martin, one of the rapporteurs, who has done an outstanding job and has succeeded in getting the singaporeans to address many of our concerns with a letter on behalf of the prime minster making commitments on the ilo conventions and an inclusion in the agreement that sets benchmarks on sustainable development which go beyond other agreements. it’s not just a feather in your cap, david, but also one for the s&d group and this parliament. well done to both the rapporteurs. i would urge my colleagues to support ... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – mr president, i won’t take two minutes because firstly, the commissioner has kindly answered many of the questions, but also as i look around the room i can’t see a single person who made a critical comment still in the room, so there’s nothing to answer. i just want to repeat that, in terms of the free trade agreement, this is good for jobs, it’s good for investment and one that we should support in terms of investment. this is the most modern investment agreement that we have ever achieved. and i conclude with the point that the commissioner made: we are trying to engage with like-minded countries to ensure that in trade the rule of law applies while some other countries want the law of the jungle to apply, and we must stick by the rule of law and continue our work in promoting bilateral and multilateral trade agreements.
mr president, it’s important that the european parliament addresses the current backlash against women’s rights and gender equality in europe, particularly because some of the forces driving this backlash are represented in this house. conservative forces are becoming stronger. they’re well organised and they have managed to convince more and more people that they’re on the right side of history. this is very dangerous. attacks against sexual and reproductive health rights are becoming more frequent in europe, with some countries even restricting access to contraceptives. anti-gender campaigns push against the rights of lgbtiq+ people. the ratification of the istanbul convention is slow and painful despite it being the best legal tool we have to fight against gender-based violence. meanwhile, domestic violence continues to be widespread and normalised. i’m worried that some people are not aware of this backlash. they think that feminism is a fight of the past, but we need to continue to speak up for women’s rights and empower those that are growing up now to take up the fight.
madam president, 4 february was world cancer day and it was an opportunity for all of us to raise awareness of cancer and show our support for the victims and their families. as a member of the european parliament, it’s my responsibility to highlight areas where the european union can do better to both prevent cancer and support the victims. i therefore want to highlight the misery caused to women suffering from industrial-related diseases, which are completely preventable. in both the cleaning and beauty industries, women are particularly at risk of exposure to carcinogenic substances. the chemicals used in their day-to-day work are known to increase the chances of cancer. so politicians across europe should reflect on what we can do to prevent workplace cancers. we must ensure that workers have adequate and enforced protection from substances and conditions that are known to cause cancer. women should not be at greater risk of cancer just because of the work they do.
author. – madam president, we are now moving to the question of discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) people and it’s important that this item has been placed on the agenda today. i know that many people today in the chamber care about this issue, and i particularly thank parliament’s lgbti intergroup for ensuring that this has been brought to the agenda. in particular, i want to raise one aspect of the fight against discrimination against lgbti people, and that is to highlight the fact that this is the first time a specific aspect of this issue is being debated in this parliament – having been debated in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and, indeed, in the un. this will be the first time that the daily discrimination faced by intersex people – the ‘i’ in lgbti – has been discussed here in the european parliament. and that is significant and important. so, to focus on the oral question and resolution put forward by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which touches upon this issue not often discussed but extremely important. why important? if we are going to measure our values in the european union by the way particular communities are treated and their vulnerability, then clearly the position faced by intersex people, not only in the european union but also worldwide, is of significance. and it’s worth mentioning that human rights violations experienced by this community are significant, and we need to put them on the agenda today. intersex people face violation of their bodily integrity. very often intersex is still considered as a disease, as something wrong, to be fixed, and ‘normalising’ surgery is often applied. medical treatments are carried out on intersex newborns in at least 21 eu member states. secondly, throughout their lives, intersex people are victims of stigma, verbal discrimination including in the workplace, harassment, and lack of adequate medical care, legal recognition and access to justice, and of the invisibility of their bodies in our society. however, there is still no legal protection against discrimination based on such sex characteristics: no legal recognition of intersex people. so today, we call on the council and the commission to ensure a de-pathologisation of intersex people and to prohibit unnecessary sex-normalising treatment and surgery. we know that in some member states there has been progress, but in too many member states there is insufficient progress. we ask for gender and sex characteristics to be recognised as a ground of discrimination. we ask for provision of adequate, impartial psychosocial counselling; for the mainstreaming of flexible birth registration; and for legal gender-recognition procedures to be facilitated. the key questions we’re asking of the commission are very important ones. today, almost 10 years on – and while i know the commissioner is strongly committed to this, as she said in the libe committee – we still do not have our cross-cutting anti-discrimination directive. so the base, which i know the commissioner and the members here are committed to, has not been put in place. and really the question is: what can we do to advance this anti-discrimination directive in a wider way? secondly, specifically with the intersex community, what are we doing to ensure that sex characteristics as a ground of discrimination, hate crime and hate speech are recognised? today, in the eu, only malta and portugal have outlawed medically unnecessary treatments on intersex children, and only malta, portugal and greece have explicitly recognised sex characteristics as a ground of discrimination, hate crime and hate speech. it is intolerable that people in europe continue to be discriminated against because of who they love, the body they are born with, and their personal sense of their gender. it is important today that we have put this on the agenda. and, i repeat, if we are to have values across the eu that we can respect, then they must entail caring for the most vulnerable minorities in our society; facing up to such discrimination; and showing that we are not afraid to stand up against it. for that reason, i am very proud that this oral question and resolution are being presented to you today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, when we talk about lgbt people, intersex people are often forgotten about. they have been dehumanised for centuries and discriminated against because of their bodies. this been presented as a health issue, when in fact there is nothing unhealthy about being intersex. the forced mutilations practiced on intersex children are an abomination. it is truly unacceptable that in 2019 such awful violations of bodily autonomy are still taking place in the eu. the fact that we are so prone forcibly and permanently to change the bodies of children who cannot give consent shows how far we are willing to go to reinforce ridiculous gender binary. intersex people are proof that there is more to humanity than men on one side and women on the other side. intersex people are proof that categorising people on the basis of their sexual features is simply narrow minded and does not reflect reality. i will stand with all intersex people, especially children, and i will tell them: ‘you are not alone.’
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, you cannot buck the market. now, we all want to live in a better world. we all want good air quality. we all want to see ecologically sound moves. everyone wants that. nobody wants to live in a situation like the area that i came from originally, the black country in the uk, which around the 19th century, during the industrial revolution, was known as the black country because during the day it was black from the soot and smoke from the furnaces and at night it was red because of the foundries. people died because their lungs were being clogged up by this stuff. so we all would like to see a better environment to live in. but my suggestion, my proposal, my input into all this is that you can’t do it, and certainly not by 2030, which is, in terms of these kind of changes, tomorrow. you can’t do this from the top down, imposing and forcing. you’re ignoring human nature: the desire to create wealth to better their souls through trade. what needs to be done is to facilitate an environment where science develops better – maybe – tax breaks on these kind of things. so the actual products and services that go towards sustainability are attractive to the consumer and market forces will create the situation that we all want. we all want a better world. it is just how we go about it. not top—down, bottom—up.
mr president, the eu always proudly pontificates on how it’s chasing greater efficiency in how it spends money. apart from the glaring fact that this is utter poppycock and you play a game of ‘what is the dumbest project we can fund this week?’, this is not the eu’s money. it’s taken from the pockets of the taxpayers from the individual nations to fund your insane and dangerous vanity project to create a modern napoleonic empire. at what level did the eur 400 000 you set aside in this budget for a cheese experience centre in the netherlands look like a smart way to burn taxpayers’ cash? there are lots more ways the eu has found to creatively destroy ordinary people’s money. your much—lauded house of european history, a trip through your ideological looking glass, where you’ve applied a marxist-style theory of historical inevitability to justify your empire, cost over eur 55 million to build. i have an idea to chase greater financial efficiency. let the other 27 nations follow the uk’s lead and leave this place, and let the individual nations and their peoples decide how and whether to spend their money.
mr president, last year i was part of a fact-finding mission by the committee on regional development (regi) to the north of ireland to assess the impact of cohesion funding. meps saw the vital importance of eu funding for women’s groups, small businesses and for persons with disability. european regional development funding, european social funding, and peace and interreg funding have helped to build peace and advance reconciliation in areas damaged by an awful conflict. it bulldozed the biggest british army barracks in north belfast and built the girdwood community hub, and it invested millions in derry to build a peace bridge which joined the two traditions, usually living apart, together. britain’s resistance of the backstop in the withdrawal agreement is an absolute disgrace. the backstop would prevent physical infrastructure on the border partitioning ireland. it doesn’t, however, include access to the european social fund, the european regional development fund, the common agricultural policy or the maritime and fisheries funds. a place emerging from conflict is being economically tore apart by brexit. whether it’s a crash brexit or not, the north of ireland will be hit hardest and a solution for all is the reunification of ireland, and it’s long past the time for the irish government to advance this legitimate good friday agreement provision.
mr president, can i pay tribute to the rapporteurs and say that it’s now almost 30 years since i first became a member of the committee on regional affairs in this parliament and it has done tremendous work during that time. and can i put it on record that it has been a source of good in the assistance it has given to northern ireland through the regional funds, through the peace funds, now at over eur 2 billion, and that is something that i am proud of and the people of northern ireland can be proud of as well. there’s even talk of a peace plus fund, and if the commissioner is listening maybe i could say to her that i am extremely concerned if that peace plus – and the commissioner is still not listening – but i am extremely concerned about how after brexit this fund will likely be commissioned, how it will be distributed and how it will be controlled. and i have to say that i find it rather odd when i look back, when i saw the support that jacques delors gave to northern ireland, and when i see the support that jean-claude juncker has given, and mr barnier has given – with his acolytes from this parliament who don’t even talk to the people of northern ireland. they are giving to northern ireland. i certainly have very main concerns about that. and i also have concerns, let me say, when the secretary of state tries to threaten and bribe the people of northern ireland and say that the funds will not be in existence afterwards if we don’t support her brexit policy. that would be unacceptable to anyone.
mr president, the uk might be leaving the european union and that would mean that wales, unfortunately, won’t get structural funds in the future and that’s a great shame. i’ve been involved with structural funds for a long time and i wanted to make three points, which i think are important. first of all, it is important that we agree the eu budget and the regulations as soon as possible, because if we don’t there will be gaps between the projects, projects will stop, people will lose their jobs. i wanted to thank the two co-rapporteurs for bringing these regulations forward as soon as they possibly could. secondly, the regulations need to be simplified. if the rules aren’t simple people don’t apply for the project funds, and that brings structural funds into disrepute. therefore, once again, i’m pleased that the co-rapporteurs have brought forward proposals which will allow the regulations to be simplified. and thirdly, we need to make structural funds more visible. too often we’ve gone right across the european union, visited projects and the project beneficiaries didn’t realise their project was funded by the european union. that must stop. that must change. we must make the european union much more visible in the future. that’s one lesson i’ve learnt from brexit.
rapporteur. – mr president, under the rules of procedure, i’d like to request referral back to the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, i abstained today on the eu—singapore free trade agreement (fta) as i did at committee stage. while i recognise the strategic importance of our relationship with singapore and the association of southeast asian nations (asean) region, and concerns about the liberalisation of our public services have been lessened thanks to the use of a positive list, this is a missed opportunity on labour rights. trade agreements are a key means of setting the rules of the globalisation game and the singapore fta sets that bar too low. even at the eleventh hour, singapore hasn’t fully committed to ratifying the core international labour organisation conventions, providing the most basic rights. meanwhile, labour-rights activists in singapore, like jolovan wham, face tough justice fighting for rights for the most vulnerable workers, migrant workers. today i stand with him, and i call for substantive change, not more rhetoric.
mr president, it was almost exactly 200 years ago that an erratic and romantic british colonial officer called sir stamford raffles landed in what’s now singapore. its population then was 120 malays and 30 chinese. it had zero resources except its natural harbour. now there are 5.6 million singaporeans enjoying the eighth highest per capita gdp in the world. how did they manage that? this is a place with zero resources. they have to import their food, their drinking water, their electricity. what was the magic ingredient that transformed those swampy mangrove trees into the gleaming skyscrapers that we see today? simply this: unilateral free trade. singaporeans invited the traffic and commerce of the world unconditionally, without waiting for reciprocity, and they especially did so after 1965, following an acrimonious split with their largest neighbour. it was the moment, as lee kuan yew was to put it, when they plugged into the global economic grid. and that is the opportunity for britain or any other country in the world: simply remove the obstacles between businesses and their customers.
mr president, this investment protection agreement between the eu and singapore will benefit only those who have already benefited the most from globalisation. it will create new privileges for multinationals in 16 eu member states and it fails to remove the privileges that already exist in the other 12. because it provides special access to justice for foreign investors it directly attacks the fundamental principle that we should all be equal before the law, no matter how rich or poor we are, and there’s no economic argument to support it. the commission has never been able to demonstrate any link between the investment court system (ics) and investment flows – because there isn’t one. another way is possible. the argument that you need ics to eradicate investor-state dispute settlement (isds) arrangements is disingenuous, as the german bilateral investment treaty shows. i fundamentally object to any kind of privileged justice for multinationals and i therefore voted against this agreement today.
mr president, the social contract is broken. in scenes reminiscent of our dangerous history, we are seeing revolutionaries of left and right in pitched battle on european streets. while i abhor their methods, i understand the sense of injustice that lies at the root of this conflict. since the financial crisis, inequality has sharpened, with those who caused the crisis continuing to accumulate wealth and power, while the pain is borne by the weak and the poor. i have always believed that inequality is corrosive and that societies and people flourish when there is justice and fairness, but even if you believe that inequality is the engine of innovation and growth, you must realise that you need social stability and public consent for your businesses to make their profits. this parliament has made great progress in the four investigatory committees on tax. i commend those members who sit on the right side of this house for embracing the task of implementing a fair tax system, but i would implore them to share that message with their national governments, who are playing the beggar—thy—neighbour game at the behest of corporations and blocking any real progress towards a fair and equitable tax system in the council. corporations have used the process of globalisation to shirk their tax responsibilities. the expansion of economic systems beyond the reach of national governments has allowed the selfish and the greedy to find ways to hoard their wealth at the expense of others. ensuring that the rich and powerful, whether companies or individuals, pay a fair share of their income and profits in tax is a necessary requirement of establishing a new social contract in the age of globalisation.
mr president, i hate tax. i think tax is the arbitrary taking from companies, from shareholders and from individuals of their hard—earned money. however, even from that point of view, you must understand – and i agree – that there is a requirement for tax in a civilised state. we need to look after those who require help, the weakest in society, and there need to be payments for defence, law and order, etcetera. however, when you take a position whereby you are redistributing, through the will of the state, the tax that is taken from people, shareholders and companies, into what you think are the right priorities, you’re taking away the freedom of the individuals involved to spend how they wish. what’s more, when you talk about cohesive, europe—wide taxation at the same rate, you are taking away people’s democratic ability to vote for a government with lower taxes. sometimes it may be the case that people want a government that will compete. i personally would like to see the uk tax burden, which is the highest since the war, reduced, and i would like us to have a competitive lower tax rate, simplified to stop avoidance but lower. i would like to encourage businesses and wealthy people to set up in the uk because we all benefit from the trade and investment that brings. if you are too cohesive and harmonised, you take away democracy and competition.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their work on this resolution. it is an important statement on behalf of our parliament about a treaty that has made our continent and our citizens safer. the eu has been the main beneficiary, and it is in our interests to return to effective implementation of this treaty. however, it was the obama administration, in 2014, which first stated that russia was in violation of its obligations under the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty and there has been no subsequent demonstration of russia’s compliance since then. having the inf treaty provides a framework that helps to avoid misunderstandings and miscalculations. it is also imperative that the right signals are sent on other arms control and disarmament treaties, most particularly the continuation of the new strategic arms reduction treaty (start). although our priority should be to preserve the benefits the inf treaty has brought, we call on the high representative to explore new, additional multilateral avenues to deliver arms control. for these reasons, the resolution makes clear that we want russia to return to full compliance with the inf treaty and for the high representative to take the necessary action to ensure the continuing protection of our citizens that a revitalisation of this treaty would present.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i very much welcome the statement made by our s&d colleague. if i may, just a tiny bit of history. in 1977 the then soviet union began deployment of the ss20 mobile nuclear armed intermediate-range ballistic missile with the range to target all of western europe. this had a political as well as a military objective. the political objective was to create dismay among western european governments, to stimulate the so-called peace movement and to create division between the europeans and the united states, whose territory was not directly affected at that time. nato responded with an effective dual-track approach, and the tough stand taken by the west, led by president reagan and margaret thatcher, and the desire by gorbachev at the time to move forward, enabled the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty (inf) to be signed in 1987. it was a great achievement. now, new forces are at work in russia and once again, it would seem that opportunities are being seized to create dismay and divergence between western allies. over the past five years, we’ve observed development of a cruise-missile system, the 9m729 by russia, which is in breach of the inf treaty. just as in the 1980s, now we must respond again with absolute transatlantic solidarity. i’m pleased that the joint motion is evidence of this and the ecr fully supports it.
mr president, president trump’s macho sabre-rattling and nationalistic calls of ‘america first’ have set the tone for dangerous political brinkmanship that puts all our lives at risk. in an era when we should be working more closely together for a sustainable peaceful world, trump goes against the grain by abandoning partnership in favour of a regressive unilateral approach. by pulling out of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty, trump has not only put the possibility of nuclear confrontation in europe back on the table, he has also hinted at a wider threat, that of world-scale military confrontation between the us and china. france, germany and the eu are defending the inf treaty, whilst calling for greater russian transparency. britain’s response, however, has been at best ambiguous, with defence secretary gavin williamson quick to support trump, saying russia has made a mockery of the inf treaty and must get its house in order. well, trump, putin, williamson: three men high on testosterone playing dangerous games. women campaigners won the battle against cruise missiles in the 1980s and women will once again oppose men’s war-mongering. we are organising.
sorry, which group is this gentleman from? i’m happy to take a question from a green. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – (inaudible) ... colleague is that it is men playing games with the lives of people around the world. war is a man’s game. most of the speakers in this debate have been men, and if you look at who is in power on the foreign affairs committee, who is doing all the warmongering? it is men, and my point is that women’s voices need to be heard at this level and it is women who make the peace and it is women who dismantled and got rid of the cruise missiles, the us missiles, they were on our land in the uk. i refuse for us to be another us state.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her remarks. the interest in this foreign direct investment (fdi) screenings framework arose, of course, from concerns about external investors buying technologies in our european countries which could be used for their own strategic objectives, while they themselves maintain barriers for investments from european countries. we’re pleased that the draft regulation agreed in trilogue recognises that it is the sole responsibility of member states to safeguard their national security. it’s important, therefore, that individual member states retain responsibility for setting up screening mechanisms for fdi on grounds of security and to cover critical infrastructure and sensitive technologies. these now specifically include, among other categories, aerospace and defence facilities and nano and bio technologies. there is also a need to consider whether a foreign investor is directly or indirectly controlled by government or its state bodies or armed forces, including through the ownership structure. so this is a difficult and complex area and i might just – somewhat mischievously and separately – remark that while today we’re considering only fdi into the union, some of the considerations should also perhaps apply to activities within the union, particularly investment in assets in one member state by state-controlled assets in another. but that’s another matter.
madam president, i’m really delighted i came in for this debate. we have here – as i’ve been listening closely – an electronic system, a single on—board unit that can go anywhere in the eu, cross-border enforcement and information exchange, modern smart technology with no toll booths, no border restrictions, no issues of any such kind. may i request the commissioner sends a copy of this to mr barnier? i think that what we’re talking about here – surely this technology could be at least looked at for a solution to the northern ireland backstop situation with brexit. it is very similar technology to what would be required. instead of looking for people to charge tolls, you’re looking at cross-border trade. we’ve just seen here that there is no requirement for a hard border or a toll booth. it is a very exciting idea. it may not be what you were envisaging tonight, but i think that you may have stumbled upon the whole solution to the brexit discussion, so i congratulate you. you may well go down in history, madam. thank you.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, at the moment member states can set the standard as to what quality of goods they accept, and this proposal – as i understand it – would seek to standardise the quality and standards of the products being sold across the eu. of course, the aim is to facilitate smoother trade – a noble goal, and one which i think we all share and would all like to see. even those of us who will hopefully be outside the eu soon still hope to see a smooth flow of trade. after all, without trade, business and growth, the people are poorer – and no one wants to see that. however, in the form that this has been discussed tonight, it is yet another attempt to buck the market. why shouldn’t different nations require different standards? why shouldn’t they? why can one nation and its people not say ‘we require a better level’? it seems to me that if you seek to make a mutual set of standards and bring everyone together, there is a danger that you are forcing some nations to accept a lower quality of product. this is not the marketplace. this is not good capitalism. this is not good trade. why not allow businesses and business bodies to work on international standards, to come together and say ‘this is the kind of standard level that we’re aiming for’, and let them make proposals to put forward for international trade. after all, they are the experts. they’re the people who understand the market. they’re the people who understand production. president reagan once said ‘government is not the solution to our problems; government is the problem’, and i think that unintentionally – certainly unintentionally – this is another example of that. government should be removed from the process of trade, and the whole thing should be depoliticised. the proposal in front of us will cost billions in new regulations and training. the eurozone is declining in industrial output, by 0.9% month on month. this suggests that there is something being done wrong here. this proposal, as was mentioned by one of our colleagues earlier, could facilitate a serious lowering of standards – the uk fire safety standards were mentioned earlier on. well, if a certain nation – be it the uk or any other nation – wants a level of standards on safety or anything else, they should be allowed to do it and businesses should be able to say ‘hang on a minute, this is what these guys need. we want to sell into this market, so let’s tailor our marketing and our production to fit that’. before i came to this place, i had a 20-year career in steel sales and exotic metals, and we would buy and sell all around the world. it was clear to us that in some places you needed a higher quality, a higher standard, and when you sell to those places you work out how you’re going to do it. frankly, if they want a higher quality and standard, it’s a business opportunity because you can sell it for a higher price. quality is a great driver of price. it should be a profit motive. why not, if people want a higher quality? allow market freedom. allow people to look into this. allow businesses to see where one nation might be able to accept something of a certain level, which is perfectly acceptable but can be done a lot cheaper and more competitively, and then look at the ones who are demanding higher standards, because that’s what the people and the customers there want and say ‘ok, we’ll do that for you, but by god you’re going to pay us for it’. when it comes to trade and business, there are always possibilities. there are always chances to make money and to do trade as long as government and politicians, regardless of their good intentions, step back a little and allow the market to do its job. where there is demand, supply will find it. and when supply and demand come together, we get what we all want: business, profit and taxation for services, and everyone is better off. i think that we need to look at this in a whole different way.
madam president, this proposed regulation on coach and bus service liberalisation has serious flaws and i believe it is premature to vote on our report on this issue now. it is welcome that the committee on transport and tourism is limiting its coverage to inter-urban bus services only. but the duties on terminal operators, under article 5, to accommodate new services are still potentially too onerous and may well be the subject of litigation if they are imposed in this form. in particular, the environmental objectives faced by terminal operators, in relation to tackling congestion and pollution, should have been specifically acknowledged and protected. equally, there is significant evidence, from surveys of bus drivers and trade union reports, that, as others have said, the liberalisation already in place in many member states has impacted negatively on drivers’ terms and conditions of work. therefore, we should not be liberalising further at this stage. points similarly made by the european economic and social committee have not been properly accommodated in the report and there is still clearly a risk of profitable routes been exploited to the detriment of good public-service contracts. in article 8, the definition of public service contracts – while i accept that mr zīle and his colleagues have tried hard on this – is not in line with the 2007 regulation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – it’s simply not true to say that i always block things. the port services regulation, which we had a very strong debate about, is something i ended up very much supporting because we came to a good result. the point is that we’ve rushed this. i’m not saying that we could never do something in this area, but we’ve gone suddenly from a market that was about international services to talking about a very sensitive area where some member states are very different from others. i’m absolutely not saying that this is not possible to achieve, but we have definitely rushed this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i must admit that i feel a certain irony about tonight’s debate as a british mep speaking to a british commissioner in the european parliament, 44 days before brexit, about security threats affecting the uk. but post-brexit neighbourly cooperation remains important. we know that the chinese government is particularly sensitive about suggestions that there could be any security risks regarding the introduction of 5g technology, and indeed they even went so far as to take out a full-page advertisement in the daily telegraph to attempt to assuage those concerns. and perhaps one of the biggest difficulties for me – or indeed for anyone watching this debate – is to assess the nature of evidence which isn’t in the public domain. for example, the director of the fbi claims that huawei smartphones can conduct undetected espionage and maliciously modify or steal information, but to what extent can this be done? what the hard evidence is remains something of a mystery. likewise, the arrest of meng wanzhou in canada at the request of the american government raises concerns. and if it were just the united states, then it would be tempting to impute an ulterior motive – to suggest that it could simply be a us response to a free market challenge to the us’s decades of tech dominance. but it’s not just the usa; there are concerns from australia, from japan, from a number of other european nations closer to home. the british defence secretary gavin williamson has said that he has very deep concerns about chinese involvement in 5g networks. and if there is a risk, then it must be a very big one. why? because every government – every government – has an interest in raising billions through 5g auctions, and the chinese companies are bound to be the leading competitors in those auctions. and it’s a big risk for another reason: because security matters; because, ultimately, it’s a matter of national protection, national defence and national sovereignty. our response to this kind of situation demands the careful consideration of all the evidence, and i believe that the uk’s response needs to be dependent on three fundamental questions. firstly, what is the level of risk of back-door routes being installed, potentially at the direction of the chinese government, which would enable industrial espionage to take place? secondly, what is the level of risk that the chinese government could mandate the disclosure of information held by chinese tech companies in the uk, potentially even putting chinese citizens at risk? thirdly, to what extent will countries become over-reliant on the 5g networks; a situation which, bluntly – if we find out later that we’ve made a mistake –would be difficult to correct. any response at all bears the danger of being overly cautious, overly protectionist, to the extent that we ultimately find ourselves excluding technology from overseas, but that has to be balanced against broader security questions, and to me the question of risk management is essentially very similar to the question of the precautionary principle. what is the level of evidence needed for us to act? i don’t see this is a question of proof beyond reasonable doubt – maybe not a question of proof at all, but a question of protection. if we have a lack of absolute scientific certainty, on which side should we bear the risk? it’s a philosophical question as much as a practical one, but i believe that to make practical judgments we need a little bit better information as to the level and nature of the risk.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, it’s no secret that animal welfare protection is practically non-existent in transport. animals are crammed into old and broken trailers, squashed against the ceilings and piled on top of each other with no access to water. it’s a distressing sight but one that is all too commonplace. we find ourselves, a decade on from the regulation’s introduction, with the same breaches being reported time and time again. nothing has changed. additionally, prolonged delays at third-country border controls can last for hours, or sometimes even days and in stifling heat, resulting in horrific suffering and fatalities among the animals – and this despite the judgment by the court of justice that transporters must observe the regulations even if their destination is beyond the eu borders. i look forward to supporting mr dohrmann’s report and i would urge my colleagues to do so. the member states have the authority to carry out the regulations and they must enforce them more strictly.
mr president, there is quite adequate legislation on animal transport: the problem is that it isn’t being enforced, and here we find a cultural difference. in the north—west of europe, there are a lot of people who are very concerned about animal welfare. in the uk we have a charity called the royal society for the protection of animals that brings private prosecutions against people who don’t treat animals properly. but the further south—east you go in europe, the more the culture changes, and they are less interested. these are the people who are expected to enforce the legislation, and they simply can’t be bothered. on another subject, in the course of my life i have offloaded thousands of sheep from lorries, and i can tell you that the ones that travel best are the ones that travel empty. they do not need to be packed full of food. if they are, then what happens on the lorry is that they go into the rumination process, with urination and defecation, and make a mess of the lorry and particularly the sheep on the lower decks. you do not need to fill a sheep full of food for it to travel comfortably.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i very much welcome this report. we’ve been working for a long time in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) to try and improve customs procedures and the efficiency of trade in europe. so i strongly support the emphasis on the need for better it systems to smooth the work of customs authorities and also its call for better managed roll—out of new it projects by the commission, working closely with national bodies. technology, when properly utilised, has the ability to massively reduce the costs and administrative burden of customs procedures in future. parliament has recognised this for some time, but the commission has taken eight years to roll this out and also appears reluctant to look at technological solutions in some of the new customs borders that may emerge in the next few weeks, even though there is a clear case for it. in concrete terms, using technology means cheaper goods for consumers and lower costs of business for traders. the rest of the world is pushing on with tech solutions to customs issues. as trials have already demonstrated, technologies like blockchain have huge potential for even simpler and more secure customs procedures, but we can also help customs authorities by raising the de minimis threshold for e—commerce to the physical limit, not reducing it to zero. overall, creating a single secure digital place for all parts of the process is the long—term goal, but we’re not quite there yet. as the repeated delays to the implementation of new it systems in the eu have already shown, getting the union customs code (ucc) going has been a torturous process. but i support the message of this report, which is too important to give up on. the importance of smooth trade flows is too valuable to let technical snags hold up the process for too long.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it was interesting to read this report as you seem to have more confidence in britain leaving the european union than both the uk government and mr robbins, theresa may’s negotiator. whereas recital i identifies that the uk will leave the european union, ms may and her negotiator are giving out completely different messages. the latest on the table is the complete fudge of membership of the customs union. with it comes permanent loss of sovereignty; we will be leaving in name only. it is now the overwhelmingly popular view of the british people that we must leave the eu without a deal. you could have had a sensible deal based solely on trade but you cling on to hopeless faith that britain will change its mind, that we will vote again and again and again. that may have worked with ireland but it won’t work with the united kingdom. the clock is ticking down to 29 march. you have time to change your minds and create a deal based solely on a free trade agreement. the eurozone is heading into recession and it will be by your actions that you push it over the edge. (the speaker declined to take a blue—card question from charles tannock)
author. – mr president, it is now over a year since oyub titiev was arrested on trumped—up drug charges, clearly targeted in response to his continued actions in documenting and exposing human rights abuses in chechnya. the russian federal authorities have so far failed to investigate the extrajudicial killing of 27 men two years ago, and titiev, head of the chechen memorial office remains in pre-trial detention a year after his arrest. russia has international commitments to protect human rights defenders, and they should take heed of the osce report that calls for mr titiev’s trial to be moved out of chechnya and for him to be released immediately. it’s also time for the icc to carry out meaningful investigations into the alleged crimes against humanity during the second chechen war. these persistent human rights abuses under the watch of president kadyrov cannot be allowed to continue unchecked. it is a disgrace.
author. – mr president, today, as chairman of the friends of zimbabwe, i want to appeal directly to president mnangagwa of zimbabwe. president, six months ago, when you took office, you promised change and a bright, shared future for all zimbabweans, with a government unwavering in its commitment to the rule of law, with policies that would project harmony and stability and attract foreign investment. i urge you to get back on that right road, to break clean from the evil forces lurking in your shadow, to dismiss those responsible for the recent brutalities, to release all the political prisoners and work with the opposition forces, the churches and civil society in a great national dialogue that will lead to the genuine and sustainable democratic change that your people so desperately want. do this and i feel sure the international community stands ready to give you every assistance. do the right thing and history will judge you well.
author. – mr president, after years of authoritarian rule, hopes rose with the election of a new president. but that has quickly evaporated, plunging the country into crisis. with runaway inflation, the final insult of high fuel prices was the final straw. anger and anxiety has pushed protesters onto the streets and their government's response – a legal crackdown on dissenting voices; arrests, use of force, live ammunition, door-to-door searches, intimidation and harassment, internet scrambling, you name it! zimbabweans and their human rights defenders have the courage to stand up to their government and we need to stand with them. fleeing zimbabweans must get the assistance they need in neighbouring countries to comply with international law and to the uk i say, stop returning zimbabweans until it's proved to be safe. we must encourage a peaceful, democratic, national dialogue on an equal footing with civil society, religious leaders, opposition and government, to find a better solution for zimbabwe – a sustainable solution that ends this violence once and for all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, a year ago, there was real optimism that the repression of previous decades was over. unfortunately, as an observer during zimbabwe’s last presidential election, i witnessed post-election violence which put an end to those hopes with recent government crackdowns – we’ve already heard – on anti-government protesters, including trade union leaders and opposition. the promises of a peaceful, prosperous, democratic zimbabwe made during those elections – it really has to be understood – are a prerequisite for international support, for debt relief, for economic recovery. they really do need to be delivered on. our condemnation so far has fallen on deaf ears and, unfortunately, facing internal power struggle, key actors find it easier to blame outsiders for the political and economic crisis they’re in, as opposed to taking responsibility. but for the european union, given russia and china’s growing influence, i think it’s important we have a clear strategy. how are we going to support dialogue between different stakeholders in the country?
author. – mr president, crown prince mohammad bin salman has been keen to market himself as a progressive visionary since coming to power: ushering in headline-grabbing reforms, such as removing the ban on women driving, and allowing cinemas to operate freely in the country. on other fundamental issues, however, we see little changing, particularly for women as they continue to be subject to the harsh guardianship laws imposed by the saudi authorities. these laws and the repressive culture surrounding them are making the everyday lives of saudi women unbearable. these measures are often defended by the authorities as being rooted in wahhabi religious norms, yet when we look at neighbouring countries in the gulf, such as the united arab emirates, kuwait and bahrain, it’s plain for all to see that the laws in the kingdom of saudi arabia are significantly more restrictive. i’d also like to take the opportunity to raise again the case of jamal khashoggi. the investigation into the torture and murder of mr khashoggi at the saudi consulate in istanbul remains inconclusive, and i continue to be deeply concerned about the many reports which allege links at the highest levels of the saudi state.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we are all too aware of the atrocious treatment of women in saudi arabia. i will say that there have been some token relaxations of their situation, such as the right to drive, but women are still second—class citizens, deprived of even the most basic control of their lives. this is completely and utterly unacceptable. there have even been reports of right—to—drive activists being tortured. it is an absolute travesty that we have to stand here, in the 21st century, discussing such medieval treatment of women and the denial of their basic rights. if the saudi government wishes to have a good working relationship with the western countries, including the uk, then they need to treat women by the internationally recognised standards.
madam president, i rise under chapter 5, rule 82. i suggest, and i would like to request through the offices of the president, that the technology which we are about to vote on be put forward to mr barnier and the brexit discussions and negotiators, because surely if this technology works, it could be a very important step forward in solving the problem of a hard border in ireland, which is something that all of us in these negotiations wish to avoid. (the president cut off the speaker)(reactions from the floor)
mr president, once again i find myself having to rail against the almost mandatory pessimism of this chamber. everyone is always so gloomy about international trends, but the reality is my daughters are going to experience a life incomparably better than my mother did, just as hers was better than her grandmother’s. globally, as in europe, there has never been a time when women have been better fed, longer lived, better paid, more equally paid, less likely to die in childbirth and better educated than today. the driving force for that improvement has been the free market. a real backlash, if we have to talk in terms of backlash – as this report suggests – is not to equality, it is to the fact that every single proposal in this report is one that involves greater state intervention – either higher taxes or more power to brussels, or in most cases both. surely the best way to enlarge the freedom of women, as of men, is to recognise is that individualism and freedom are the basis of modern civilization.
mr president, medical use of cannabis is legal to some degree in 23 member states of this union, 47 states of the usa plus washington dc, and a further 25 countries around the world. the list is growing. i am happy to support this resolution because regulation is the way, just as for any other product. however, i detect in this resolution, and in the words of some of the ppe group speakers, a backdoor desire to strengthen prohibition – and that has utterly and completely failed: failed to protect young people, failed to address the real issues of addiction, and played into the hands of organised crime. this is the view of drug experts, addiction experts, and senior police officers. it is wrong to criminalise people with horrible illnesses, just as it’s wrong to criminalise addiction. throughout the union, we tolerate a much more dangerously addictive drug that wrecks lives. we call it beer, we call it whisky or we call it champagne, but we regulate alcohol because prohibition doesn’t work. it only makes things worse.
mr president, i welcome this report on peaceful protest – a cherished right that we in the trade union movement hold dear. it is currently heartunions week when we show the love for trade unions because being a member of a union makes sense. workers in unionised workplaces earn up to 10% more, enjoy greater job security and better terms and conditions. getting successes nationwide, like the gmb deal for hermes self-employed couriers to get holiday pay and unison’s landmark case to scrap employment tribunal fees and — in the east of england, my region — unite helping scrap the plans to make suffolk poultry catchers work on christmas day; and the successful fbu campaign to stop the pcc taking over hertfordshire fire service; and fighting against injustices; usdaw helping ‘keep sunday special’ and the cwu fighting against crown post office closures. so, let’s get more bosses’ pulses racing by pumping up membership to help break heartbreak for workers.
mr president, well i do not think the regulation goes far enough and i think it is time for a ban on live exports for slaughter or fattening. i do welcome this report’s aim of stamping out weak enforcement. many people in my country find the transport of life calves and sheep abhorrent. of course, within the single market we cannot just ban it and some have therefore welcomed brexit as a boon for animal welfare. they will, i believe, be heartily disappointed. not only do we risk importing lower welfare agricultural products from places like the united states, who are decades behind european welfare standards, but we will also lose our influence within the eu. for 40 years we have used our votes, our economic strength and our political clout to help change policies, not just in britain but across europe, banning veal crates, battery cages and animal testing for cosmetics. brexit will, i fear, be a step backwards for animal welfare, both in britain and across all of europe.
mr president, i would like to say a word about the agenda, please. i have just seen a report that mrs may is coming to strasbourg in order to speak to mr juncker. are you aware of that, and if so will you invite her to address this parliament?
mr president, i did call earlier but unfortunately i wasn’t seen. i also rise under rule 11, which states that members’ conduct shall be characterised by mutual respect. at the end of the brussels mini plenary session on 31 january, my friend and colleague margot parker was leaving the chamber, after voting with other meps, when, in the general rush and melee, she was pushed by a colleague and lost her footing over a step, causing a hard fall. paramedics collected her and she was removed to the medical centre. rude and disrespectful behaviour has led to a serious injury, necessitating ongoing hospital treatment. regrettably, i don’t know who the member concerned was, but they should hold their head in shame. perhaps all colleagues would be more mindful of others when leaving the chamber and do so in a safe and respectful manner. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, sharing information across borders is essential to fight crime and terrorism in a world where people are increasingly mobile and cross-border crime is on the rise. the existing rules make it easier for non-eu nationals to hide crimes they have committed on eu soil than it is for eu nationals. this means that today, under the current european criminal records information system (ecris), there is an efficient and effective way to identify previous criminal convictions for eu nationals but not for third-country nationals. at present, officials who suspect a non-eu national has a criminal past can only find those convictions by individually asking all 27 other member states. this means that previous criminal records are rarely found. it is a gaping legal loophole which leaves people in the eu less safe. this regulation is an important step to close these loopholes and improve information-sharing and cooperation between member states in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. at the core, this is about ensuring judicial authorities have a complete picture when carrying out their work, meaning they can apply sentences fairly. we can all agree that non-eu nationals should not find themselves with more rights than eu citizens in the eu itself. getting the right balance on this was important to all the groups, especially ensuring that there was no discrimination to eu nationals, who would be included if they had a third-country nationality as well. i believe that we have got this balance right and we won some significant safeguards in those negotiations, particularly regarding fingerprints. our legal services see no discrimination in the text. this legislation closes the gap, while also providing a fair balance between protecting the rights of individuals and ensuring that past convictions are correctly attributed. we have ensured safeguards on how specific and targeted information can be shared. this is not a database that can simply be browsed through. there is no conviction data stored in the central database and so there is no differentiation of treatment between eu and third-country nationals, as both the eu and the third-country national systems ultimately result in the same outcome, i.e. that member states’ judicial authorities are able to request previous criminal conviction information from the relevant member state so that that can be taken into account for the sentencing of new convictions. critically, the inclusion of dual nationals in this system means that nationals of both a third-country and an eu member state can’t hide their past criminal convictions in the eu simply by disclosing only one of their passports. let me be clear here as there is some misunderstanding, especially within the alde group. this is for eu convictions only, so no turkish convictions or convictions from any other non-eu member state are involved – it’s only eu convictions. if we don’t have this system, authorities will have to make judgment calls on which system to search, and that would probably mean profiling based on race and name. i don’t believe we want to see that. in addition, the collection of the fingerprints for dual nationals will be exactly the same as for eu nationals. overall, this is about ensuring judicial authorities have a complete picture in order to react adequately and to apply the right measures. let me be clear, if colleagues here vote to reopen the deal you are putting your own citizens at risk. you are saying you want to discriminate against eu citizens in the eu, and you admit that you want some people to be able to hide serious criminal convictions, convictions which have been handed down on eu soil. this deal was voted through the libe committee with a considerable majority. the legal services of all three institutions agree that there is no discrimination. it is a good agreement. we fought well and we got a lot in this parliament, so i commend this to the parliament, we should support it.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their comments, and to thank all the shadow rapporteurs on these proposals because we did a lot of work together and it was a long process: thank you all for your work. i would also particularly like to thank javier nieto perez, policy advisor to my political group, and harriet carr, from my office, for the long hours and the work they put in. on dual nationals, i repeat my previous comments: the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission have all confirmed that the inclusion of dual nationals is not discriminatory. ensuring there was no discrimination was one of my key priorities: we worked long and hard together to get the requisite changes to the text to ensure there was no discrimination. to the alde group and the green group, and particularly to ms mlinar, for whom i have the greatest respect and with whom we have been working very closely on this, i must say i believe you are mistaken. by aligning the collection of fingerprints for all eu nationals, regardless of whatever extra nationality they may have, we have ensured that the treatment for everyone is exactly the same. there is no second-class eu citizenship here. if some groups wish to use this legislation as a political tool, and to tell the world that an academic and legally dis-proven debate is more important than the welfare of our citizens or the effective functioning of our judicial systems in the eu, there is nothing i can do to stop them. however, let’s be clear what they are doing: they are allowing third-country nationals to avoid their convictions being known in the eu, and that is putting all of us at risk of serious crime and terrorism. these are people with criminal convictions, remember. we are faced with one question tomorrow. do you really think that criminals who are non-eu nationals should be able to hide their criminal convictions from our courts when eu nationals cannot do that? i don’t think they should.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, what would the start of a week in the european parliament be without a brand new, highly expensive, somewhat sinister-sounding scheme? it’s lovely to be back, it’s good: i feel like i am back here, seeing one of these things. i like the fact, commissioner, that you are now constructing policy based on the midwich cuckoos. that’s a great idea. what we have here is big brother, dressed in a halo. you are allowed to go and do some work and you are brought together, and this money – a mere eur 1.2 billion by the way at a time when we are told everyone is struggling with austerity – goes into eu-approved good schemes. you can volunteer to do these good things as long as you learn to have solidarity: that you are all good little europeans working together. even the speakers in favour of it make no secret whatsoever of the fact that this is a political programme! solidarity across borders, breaking down stereotypes, that is lovely, but there are charities that people can volunteer to work with to do good works without this political angle. this, as one of the speakers said, is ‘another erasmus’. yes, another erasmus! another scheme whereby we dress up something good, like education, but dose it so full of eu propaganda that it is almost impossible to see truth from what is made up. this is exactly the kind of idea that turns people off, and that worries people. you are trying to indoctrinate people, commissioner, and that’s why you don’t want older people involved. you want young minds to manipulate at an early age. this is a crazy waste of money, it is a very poor tribute to the midwich cuckoos, and it is a great start to the week: you have really got me fired up, so i want to thank you for that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i see solidarity as something different from the way you see it. i think solidarity, in this eu context, means one european people – it means no difference between all of us, brought together and homogenised. that’s what i see solidarity here as meaning. i would like to see the use of the word ‘solidarity’ to mean real solidarity, in times of difficulty, times when we work together, but this solidarity is a complete denunciation of individuality, of the nation state, and of all the things that made us all individually great in the past.
madam president, at its core, the european solidarity corps stands for the values that the eu was built upon. it is therefore a peace-making solidarity project, which invests in the potential of young citizens. i’m a supporter of the initiative and i’m very pleased with the report as voted in the committee on culture and education. i advocated for an enhanced budget in order to make the programme available to all young european citizens, especially those with fewer opportunities. being able to volunteer in solidarity actions from a young age with proper support offers many benefits. the eu solidarity corps will provide opportunities for 17-30-year-olds to take an active role in helping communities in crisis, whilst developing vocational skills and personal attributes such as self-confidence and empathy. as an mep for the uk, i’m sad that my young constituents may not have access to this fantastic programme because of brexit. at a time when so many young people feel disenfranchised from politics, the european solidarity corps has the potential to further involve our youth in their communities and strengthen their role as active citizens. being part of this programme is an opportunity that can transform lives, and it is one of the many benefits that uk youth might lose because of a vote in the uk in 2016 that was largely the result of older people’s dissatisfaction, a vote about the past, not about the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, cyber attacks are not a temporary fashion, they are not something that is going to go away any time soon. they are about serious money and serious politics. the permanent mandate for the agency to counter them, the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), is therefore not a luxury; it is absolutely essential. it is also a fact that, to paraphrase, the bad it crowd needs to be combated with a better it crowd, so the agency needs to have the resources to be able to attract the best people in the field. that said, the agency also needs to operate efficiently and it’s debatable whether two locations is a sensible way to go in the medium term. nonetheless, we welcome the report and the notion of an eu-wide certification scheme. for cybercrime, borders have never been relevant and therefore combating cybercrime across borders is absolutely essential.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for far too long, farmers and growers have been in the most precarious position in the food supply chain. for far too long, large retailers across the eu have been able to abuse their powerful position. this directive on unfair trading practices used as one of its bases the uk’s grocery supply code of practice. this is a legally binding code. the uk found that purely voluntary systems didn’t work. voluntary codes didn’t change buyers’ behaviour, and that is why legislation is needed. i would like to thank our rapporteur paolo de castro and my fellow shadows, and commissioner hogan, for all the work they have put into this directive to deliver fairer treatment for our farmers. at parliament’s insistence, the directive now includes all agricultural produce not just food. so that means that cut flowers, which are just as perishable as fruit and veg, are covered. we also extended the threshold so that suppliers with a turnover of up to eur 350 million will be protected. that means all eu farmers are covered, and all producer organisations in the uk are covered too. i am also glad that the directive covers suppliers who are outside the eu, so not only will farmers in kenya and peru be protected, but in a post-brexit world, uk farmers and growers will continue to be protected while selling into the eu. this is good news for farmers and consumers across the eu and beyond, and i am delighted to support it.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i wondered if the reason you’re a little late for the debate was because theresa may is in town and she was twisting your arm to persuade you to support ireland leaving the european union, which would solve the problem of having an eu border on the island of ireland, but maybe that’s too much to hope for. you might also be wondering, with 18 days to go to brexit, why a british mep is actually bothering to talk here, but i honestly think that this flag will be in this parliament in a year’s time. i really do believe that, and so for that reason, i want to say something about this report. i’m quite happy with the sentiment of it, but what worries me is that we have in britain somebody called the groceries code adjudicator. her name is christine tacon and she is doing the work that you are talking about. now, what i’m worried about is that she is going to be undermined by this legislation. supermarkets will say to her, ‘ah yes ms tacon, but the eu rule says xyz’, and they will then go to the european court of justice to undermine what she’s doing. various staff of yours have assured me that this won’t happen, but over the last 30 years, the commission has had a horrible way of always putting its legislation ahead of the british legislation. please prove to me that i’m going to be wrong, but i would far rather have the status quo in britain as we have it. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – right, mairead, i’m quite happy to clarify. what’s amusing me and making me laugh is the total incompetence of our politicians: nearly three years after a vote of the british people to leave this place, they still haven’t managed to do it. that is what causes me some amusement. now, you raised another point, didn’t you? i’m just trying to recall what it was. oh yes, that she’s a strong woman. i’m not talking about theresa may; i’m talking about christine tacon. yes, she is, and she shouldn’t be undermined by this place, and that is what’s worrying me.
mr president, my congratulations as well. i wouldn’t have expected anything less of paolo de castro than the report he has brought forward, but i also congratulate all involved on the remarkable speed with which this agreement was reached. the dominant bargaining power of large operators in the food supply chain has left farmers squeezed between the processors and the large multiples. unfair trading practices have been a continuous problem for farmers across europe and it is sensible to introduce extra protection for farmers. i am pleased this will be done in conjunction with already existing frameworks in member states. for too long, we have seen – and continue to see – power concentrated in the hands of the buyers. this has resulted in an uneven playing field whereby farmers have had little influence to exert in the marketplace and been subject to unfair practices to cut their margins when you look at the fact that across europe, farmers receive an average of 21% of the final price of the agricultural product. the various measures in this directive, such as banning late payments for perishable goods and banning late cancellations, will go a long way to restoring the imbalances, give farmers extra protection and keep food at the highest standards and quality. but we must not – and i give this warning – become complacent that our work here is done. one of the greatest obstacles to successful european legislation lies within incorrect implementation at member state level – not at brussels, at member state level –and this is where we have got to follow it through. the key is implementation and monitoring what has been done. to those who actually say it should be more, people are always looking for more, but you have to crawl before you walk. at least we’ve done it. at least we’ve followed it through. congratulations to all involved.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, as many have said, this is legislation for which we have been campaigning for years. thank you, commissioner hogan, for putting it on the table, and a big thank you to paolo de castro for making it happen before the end of this parliamentary term and before brexit. i am speaking for the committee on development and the most important thing for us is that this legislation covers not just eu farmers but also farmers in the global south, because they too face a squeeze, as farmers here do, and they have very little bargaining power. take bananas: only 4% to 9% of the value goes to the farmer. or look at cocoa: a 30-40% drop in income last year. if you think about it, prices are not going down, so somebody, somewhere, is making money, and it is not farmers. finally, this is a very good piece of legislation. we now need to build upon it, and i want to thank, too, all the campaigners across europe from the fair trade movement, from traidcraft in the uk, from the fair trade advocacy office and the cooperative movement, and all those who campaigned for this. let us hope that, in the new parliament, we will continue to work on value change, conflict minerals, textiles, cocoa and other commodities, building on the legislation we have before us.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate ms hautala on her report. i really welcome this agreement with vietnam, committing now to only importing and exporting legally harvested timber. this is especially important given that this country is a leader in timber products. deforestation, as we’ve already heard, is the second leading cause of global warming and this agreement will be key, not only in achieving the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, but also the paris climate change goals. however, i do have some questions for the commission. firstly, there is an urgent need to address the regional dimension of the rampant illegal logging. therefore, i’d like to know: what efforts the commission has undertaken to tackle illegal timber trade from supplier countries like laos and cambodia? secondly, what is the state of play with the new voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) with china, which is also a crucial player in the processed wood industry? finally, to what extent has the eu timber regulation been raised in dialogue with japan as another major importer of timber and a trading partner of the eu?
mr president, i welcome the evaluation of the european citizens’ initiative (eci). it’s vitally important that all citizens are involved in quality democratic processes such as the eci, but that also requires citizenship education and an understanding of european values and eu institutions and how each and every one of us can play a role in shaping the future. the need for better democracy is clear. in the 2016 uk referendum people often did not fully understand what they were voting for, believing themselves to be powerless to shape a better future. initiatives such as the eci must be made more accessible to everyone. i particularly welcome the possibility for 16—year—olds to participate and for improved access for people with disabilities. i believe, however, that we must do more. at a recent all together in dignity fourth world event, it was highlighted how poverty acts as a barrier to full citizenship. we must therefore end inequality and social injustice in order to build a more democratic society. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i don’t support what russia has done in the crimea, or its recent actions in the sea of azov, and i don’t see why anyone who’s gay would want to live under a regime that oppresses gay people. i don’t want to see oleg sentsov still in jail as a political prisoner. this year, russia has entered the open doors world watch list, a list of nations which do the most persecution of christians on the planet, a fact that hasn’t made it into the report. i can’t believe for one second that russian officers just happened to be visiting salisbury cathedral at the time of the novichok attack, so don’t expect me to have anything positive to say about the putin regime in russia. it seems to me that a large chunk of russia’s foreign policy approach is the nation-state equivalent of trolling. they’re trying to provoke us into overreacting to the wrong things, they’re trying to wrong-foot us, and it seems to me that in this house some people are falling for it hook, line, and sinker. and this notion that russia was meddling in the british referendum campaign is nonsense. during the campaign, facebook tells us that russian operatives spent 97 cents – that’s us cents, about 80 euro cents – on political advertising, and even that was a mistake because it was material targeted at an american audience that missed. putin wants to be the villain of the piece. it suits his strategy to do so. it suits the interests of this place to try to claim that there was something up with the british referendum because frankly you don’t like the result. there were indeed some accidental rule breaches on both sides in the british referendum campaign. the pro-eu lib dems were fined, the pro-eu open britain were fined for rule breaches. some other allegations were simply not followed up on. nothing, though, was material to the outcome as per the uk court of appeal ruling of 4 march. there is no evidence that gives rise to any soundly based grounds for believing the outcome of the referendum would have been different if those breaches had not occurred. the very fact that this constant assault on the referendum result and upon british democracy in general is being recycled time and time again, shows a pathological reluctance to accept the will of the british people.
mr president, on friday 8 march, we celebrated international women’s day, so i took the opportunity to reflect on the situation of women in conflict zones who suffer from attacks on their human rights and physical and mental health. on a wider scale, millions of women around the world have been, are, and will be, victims of gender-based violence. the eu must be at the forefront of preventing and tackling violence against women and must encourage a holistic approach to dismantling all gender-based discrimination and violence, and this must go hand in hand with effective awareness raising and education for men and women on gender equality and human and women’s rights. however, none of these tools can be effectively shaped and implemented without the direct involvement of women from all backgrounds, as gender-based violence takes many forms. i believe it’s crucial, when building policies to protect women, that we involve many organisations from civil society, who are doing extraordinary work helping women in difficult situations.
mr president, i believe that healthcare is a universal right. however, brexit has put that common good in jeopardy for eu nationals in the uk and for british nationals who live in the other 27 member states. i welcome the uk’s belated initiative, which requires my government to seek a joint uk—eu commitment to preserving citizens’ rights in the withdrawal agreement, whatever the outcome of negotiations. this would ensure that our families can continue to access healthcare and social security as before. the commission has recommended that member states adopt a generous approach, but i implore national governments to go further and guarantee those rights – because they are founded on european values. finally, a word about the mental health of people whose lives have been made unbearable because of brexit uncertainty. as theresa may dines with mr juncker tonight, she would do well to reflect on her role in destroying the well—being of millions.
mr president, one of the most moving places i have visited is the holocaust memorial in berlin, the memorial to the murdered jews of europe. when i visited several years ago, i could not have imagined that today, several years on and well into the 21st century, anti-semitism would have again become a cause of deep worry, fear and dread in europe. the difficult, sickening truth is that it has, and it is. it is doing so in the most grotesque, frightening and upsetting ways possible: significant increases in anti-semitic incidents across europe in recent years. the fundamental rights agency’s report on this last year shows conclusions that are alarming and frightening beyond words. this vile hatred in all its forms must be confronted online, on the right, on the left, inside political parties, across political debate and in wider society. we must be uncompromising, unrelenting, tenacious and urgent in our response.
mr president, ms may has arrived in strasbourg this evening for yet another meeting with mr juncker. how many times will she plead for the worst possible terms she can get? the last two years and nine months have been an elaborate charade designed to propagandise the british people into believing that leaving the eu is just too difficult, and this is just the latest scene in the drama. we are being positioned, at best, for a sham exit. this whole process has been about arriving at a so-called deal whereby we leave in name only. if our treacherous prime minister and political class cannot prevent brexit altogether, they at least intend to position us for re—entry as quickly as possible. whatever betrayal agreement ms may agrees, it will not be the end of the story. it will just begin the next phase of the british people’s struggle to leave the european union.
mr president, why does it matter that economics is dominated by men? could it be related to the fact that men own the overwhelming volume of the world’s assets, with just eight men owning the same amount of wealth as the whole of half of the world? conventional economics is dominated by the rational economic man, a man who arrives as a full-grown adult in the world of work and ignores the mother who raised him, the teachers who educated him, the people who nursed him back to health. whenever women come into any sphere, they bring different perspectives and insights. we don’t have to argue about whether we’re better or worse. we only have to accept that my half of the human race deserves to be fully represented in all domains where power is exercised, including the economy. as a female economist, i’m tired of waiting for a world where women play an equal role in finance and economics. i will no longer collude in a process of uttering hypocritical words and then taking no action. i will not support any more men being appointed to the boards of the financial regulatory bodies until the shortlists include at least one woman.
mr president, as a firm believer that women are as capable – if not more capable, in many, many things – i find the idea of having to give extra assistance to women extremely patronising. the self-same people who say that there should be more women put forward and there should be artificial ways of pushing women into these roles they don’t currently hold – or at least not so many of them currently hold – are the same people who, were there more women in these roles than men, would be celebrating it as a great victory for the progress of liberation of women’s rights. they wouldn’t say: ‘hang on, where’s the gender balance? we all work better as a team. where are the men?’ they wouldn’t be saying that! this is just another way of virtue—signalling. women are good enough, intelligent enough, and in the modern world, educated enough, to take top positions without anyone here having to ruffle their hair saying: ‘good girl, go on, go ahead yourselves’. they can do it without that kind of patronisation.
mr president, mr pellegrini, this debate is about the future of europe, but the blunt truth is that the eu only has a future if it learns to respect the wishes of people across europe to maintain the sovereignty of their nations. in my country, that manifested itself in the glorious vote for brexit. in peterborough, where i’m based, more than 60% voted to leave. until yesterday, the grand old men of the eu pretended to respect that, but last night, mr juncker himself warned the british people that unless the brexit-in-name-only withdrawal agreement is accepted, there may be no brexit at all. with a craven british prime minister sitting next to him like some lapdog, the eu’s top man sought to call the british people to heel. what arrogance! what conceit! you should have let us go with good will. instead, you have decided to make an example of us to frighten the others. the eu clearly has the measure of mrs may, but the british people will never surrender to these imperial ambitions.
mr president, prime minister pellegrini, tonight is the meaningful vote on brexit in the house of commons. i personally don’t support mrs may’s hard brexit deal as it recognises her regrettable red lines to leave the eu single market and customs union, so it can never really deliver uk—eu frictionless trade. nevertheless, there is one part of the withdrawal agreement i do strongly agree with, which is its aspiration to keep the united kingdom closely linked to the eu’s internal and external security arrangements. on internal security, i particularly fear now a security cliff edge if there’s a no-deal scenario, excluding the united kingdom’s access to key eu databases and instruments such as the schengen information system (sis) and the anti-counterfeiting rapid intelligence system (acris) database. it’s also vital to keep the uk, post brexit, close to the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp) in the external security area. the uk is a un security council p5 member and a nuclear power. so how, prime minister pellegrini, do you see, post brexit, a way of keeping the united kingdom closely linked into the eu security structures and, in particular, the permanent structured cooperation (pesco), which you mentioned in your speech?
madam president, i was most interested in this: if you can check freight with satellites, why is there a problem doing that with the border in northern ireland? surely we do not need to have a hard border in northern ireland if we can do it by having satellites. so if it works for other parts of the world, why not northern ireland? is it singularly unable to use satellites? (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – madam president, very briefly, we’ve negotiated this for years. we’ve got a deal. parliament got significance concessions. if any amendment passes, the deal falls, so i would object to the proposal by the gue/ngl and suggest that we just vote directly on the deal.
madam president, i’m in favour of this accord. it seems a perfectly sensible thing for the european union to work with vietnam on sustainability. but i’d ask members just to stand back and contemplate the miracle that has made this report possible: that sees vietnam exporting a sum equivalent to its gdp. in the mid—1980s, vietnam was one of the poorest countries in the world. gdp was a little bit over usd 200. now it has increased by 1 000% – by 2 000% if we measure by purchasing power parity. what an extraordinary thing, when we think of the lengths that the usa went to to stamp out communism by military means – spending a trillion dollars at today’s prices, losing 60 000 of its soldiers, 250 000 south vietnamese, a million north vietnamese – and it failed! yet a couple of decades of free trade have led to the rule of law and the development of economic freedom in that country. it’s the same lesson every time. let goods and services cross borders so that soldiers don’t have to.
madam president, britain is the eu’s largest importer of tropical timber by a significant margin. i support the voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam as an important contribution in the fight against illegal logging, with governments, civil society and businesses working together. sadly, across the world, up to half of all timber still comes from illegal sources. forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) is a good thing, but the voluntary approach alone is not going to defeat the illegal timber trade. my view is that the uk and the eu need to go further with legislation banning all imports of illegal and destructively logged timber, coupled with more support to improve governance and stamp out corruption in timber producing countries. illegal logging robs governments and communities of resources. it damages ecosystems, accelerates climate change and fuels conflict. we cannot afford to rest until the market for illegal timber in europe is closed forever.
madam president, armed conflicts are rarely fought on well—defined battlefields, but in and around communities. health, education, transport and employment opportunities all suffer. women are in the middle of this, yet they are excluded in global work on preventing conflict, mediation and peace-building. indeed, women have made up just 2% of mediators and 5% of witnesses or signatories to major peace processes in the last 30 years. this report, like un resolution 1325, rightly accepts that women experience conflicts differently from men. take kashmir, where 8 000 men are unaccounted for since 1989, leaving thousands of half-widows living in poverty, lacking property rights and unable to remarry, pellet guns blinding and maiming and the use of rape as a weapon of war. after 70 years we need some new approaches, and i hope that this report is a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, milton friedman argues that one of the great mistakes is to judge policies and programmes by their intentions rather than their results. from ancient greece’s peloponnesian war, to modern-day belarus, iran, myanmar, north korea and russia, evidence suggests that sanctions targeted at entire countries rarely achieve the intended foreign-policy objectives. very often, collective punishments result in further collectivism. innocent citizens in sanctioned countries become even more dependent on their domestic oppressors for the straight provision of basic goods in return for further encroachment on their political and social freedoms. as a free marketeer, i have always believed in individual responsibility. we should, therefore, promote a smarter sanctions policy to ensure that sanctions are both legally robust and effective against those individuals committing abuses around the world.
mr president, today, the global trend leans towards undermining international law, in particular when it comes to human rights. multilateralism is under attack by a number of countries, with the us leading the way. in this context, it’s essential that the eu’s foreign policy continues to focus on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, so i’m happy that the idea of a european human rights sanction regime is progressing. sanctions can be a powerful tool, but it’s important to make them as efficient and as targeted as possible. a coherent european sanctions regime is therefore a step in the right direction. seeing this progress being made at european level reminds me that that if brexit happens, the uk will not be able to participate in such positive policies. since the brexit negotiations began, the conservative government has shown increasing cynicism in its foreign policy, with theresa may holding hands with presidents trump and erdoğan, while liam fox went on a trade crusade with the self-confessed murderer duterte, now the president of the philippines. so, 28 countries working together in a sensible sanctions regime is far more effective than one desperate lonely island.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, commissioner, last wednesday, 6 march, russian and turkish media reported that ships from the russian black sea fleet held a joint exercise drill with a turkish navy corvette and a minesweeper, near the port of novorossiysk. this came shortly after president erdoğan’s clarification over speculation about a turkish deal to purchase russian s-400 triumf air defence systems, when he confirmed that his government will not cancel that deal, despite protests from his american nato partner. since the british people’s vote to leave the european union, this place has increased rhetoric, emphasising alarming support for the development of integrated eu military forces. my only hope is that after the european elections a majority here will step back from this crazy federalist mantra and understand that nato is a vital component of peace and security in europe. mr president, to my mind the threat to nato from a developing eu military capability is as concerning as ankara’s continuing military alignment with moscow.
mr president, i have always taken the view that we need to keep turkey close. although neither side is under any illusions, the process of eu accession has proved beneficial to both turkey and the eu. there is a saying that sometimes it’s better to travel than to arrive. this journey has been going on for at least 15 years; some might say over 30 years. why add injury to insult and suspend it now? and surely it’s not in the interests of the eu to create animosity with its neighbours – mr barnier, take note. over the years, there has been a range of obstacles to progress with turkey; some real, some contrived. one consistent element has been cyprus. the eu talks grandly about principles of democracy, but it is content to ignore the people of a third of the island of cyprus. seats allocated to the republic of cyprus should be used proportionately to represent the peoples of all parts of the island either through a turkish cypriot member of the parliament or through observer status, as is the case in the council of europe.
mr president, i have always stood for human rights and democracy in turkey since the beginning of my mandate and it’s very sad to see how much the situation has deteriorated over the past five years. calling for the suspension of accession talks is painful because i’m convinced that turkey’s future lies in europe. my regular contact with turkish civil society has convinced me that turkish citizens long for human rights and democracy. however, the government’s crackdown against human rights defenders, academics, civil servants, trade unionists, journalists, women, ethnic minorities and lgbtiq+ people makes it impossible to continue a fruitful dialogue. zehra doğan, a kurdish, feminist journalist and artist who i have been twinned with as part of a project led by human rights watch and the committee to protect journalists, was recently released but her case shows just how turkish authorities target any critical voices. the ongoing hunger strike by hundreds of kurds around the world against the isolation of abdullah öcalan is further evidence of huge dissatisfaction with erdoğan’s regime.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the failure of the guri hydropower plant last thursday was yet another devastating blow to the people of venezuela: the latest challenge to present itself to an already beleaguered, long-suffering and demoralised people. the exact causes of the problem are still difficult to ascertain, given the secrecy and the ludicrous claim circulating that this was an act of sabotage by the usa. much more likely, it seems, it was the result of underinvestment, attributable to the many years of corruption and mismanagement under the chavez regime – a pattern we now see continuing under maduro. reports suggest that all current attempts to resolve the situation have resulted in a worsening of the problem, with more substations and the wider national power grid now affected. with some 80% of the country’s population now affected, it is difficult to overestimate the severity of the problems as hospitals and other key services and infrastructure struggle to keep afloat. i call upon all those eu member states that have yet to do so to recognise juan guaidó as the interim president of venezuela, in order to bring some relief to that broken state.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is an absolute tragedy. what has led to it is socialism, which when in government always leads to catastrophe; and absolute socialism has led to absolute catastrophe. the people there are in an awful place, a crisis is going on. the only thing i can possibly say that could make it worse is well-meaning but bumbling intervention. i suggest that the eu and other foreign players be very, very careful about this and that they then be there to trade with – and, in the diplomatic sense, talk to – the venezuelan people when they get back on their feet.
mr president, propaganda against the eu is not just about homegrown far-right nationalist eurosceptics, who sit in this house with the intention of destroying the european peace project. as i discovered whilst working on the 2016 report, this phenomenon is about russia and other countries who do not share our european values. having successfully influenced the 2016 uk referendum, putin’s agents could have a huge impact on the forthcoming european elections. the eu therefore needs to take proactive measures. firstly, tech companies should invest much more in tools to identify propaganda and ensure better identity checks of platform users in order to eliminate bots, and to reduce financial incentives for those who profit from disinformation. secondly, we need more awareness at political level. for example, the french far-right mep, aymeric chauprade, gave employment to the daughter of president vladimir putin’s spokesman here in the european parliament and this should not have been allowed. finally, the uk government continues to ignore the hostile propaganda that proliferated in the brexit campaign, so we must have a mueller-style investigation in the uk regarding the dark money and the interference that clearly entered the campaign.
mr president, i note the agreement between the eu and afghanistan and do believe that it would have been better had parliament been informed earlier about the negotiations, particularly covering trade and investments. however, being mindful of the fact that washington is no longer pressing for a military advantage means there is an opening up of space for diplomacy and the eu needs to support political resolution for the conflict in afghanistan. but i have a number of questions for the commission. the us and taliban negotiators have reached a draft peace framework in qatar, but it has not been disclosed if it contains assurances about the rights of afghan women or minorities. given the eu’s efforts to enhance women’s participation in public life, how are we going to ensure that this will not be in vain, once the taliban have a political role again. secondly, there is no regional agreed framework corresponding to the doha talks. neither the us nor the afghan government can lead it. how do we ensure sustained interest by regional powers and neighbours like pakistan, china, india and iran in a stable state? and finally, how do we ensure that the afghan government plays a core role in the dialogue in the afghan peace process?
mr president, eu member states continue to consider afghanistan a safe country. this allows them to return to the country people who have come to europe to seek asylum, often through very dangerous routes. however, the security situation on the ground has severely deteriorated and the taliban now control a significant part of the territory. it is hypocritical and irresponsible for our member states to be sending these people back to a land where they will inevitably face persecution, especially those who came to seek shelter in europe after being targeted for their cooperation with western forces. another worrying issue is the current exclusion of women and young people from talks that could lead to a peace deal between the us and the taliban. my colleague, ana gomes, brought an important initiative to our attention last week, whereby a group of afghan women have launched an appeal regarding those who are currently excluded from the talks. it’s essential that their voice is heard in order to build sustainable peace and to safeguard women’s hard—won rights in the country.
mr president, so we’re discussing afghanistan, the historically ungovernable, impossible state, and the eu – and again, really, really, with the right intentions – we’re looking at billions of euros, offers to help with state building, social programmes, but there’s the word – ‘state building’ – to try and get to democracy and so on. now, russia, the united states and the british empire have all failed to try and impose themselves upon afghanistan and i don’t think there’s any change to make us suggest that anything will be any different if this place – through its soft power – tries to impose itself on afghanistan. i would suggest the best way to improve the lot of the people of afghanistan is to agree to have tariff-free trade, to open the border to trade completely with them, and allow their economy to grow and people there to get better off and better educated through trade and the economic growth that will come with free trade. everything else is doomed to failure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the geographic, cultural and historical links between the european union and those three enchanting micro-states are undeniable. there exists already, though, a good degree of political and practical cooperation between them and the eu. all three of them use the euro as their currency, whilst andorra and san marino are members of the eu customs union. the three states combined have a population of around just 150 000 people – three times smaller than the eu’s smallest member state, malta. therefore, the association agreement will recognise this important imbalance between the two negotiating sides, and i’m pleased to note that the lópez aguilar report repeatedly calls for its implications to be taken into account, so as to recognise the difficulties facing the micro-states in concluding an association agreement. they range from the practical difficulties of the disproportionate burden of implementing the eu’s ‘acquis communautaire’, given the small size of their civil services, to more divisive debates around freedom of movement. given the intense debates in my own country around brexit, i’m only too familiar with the importance of the indivisibility of the four freedoms of the single market. clearly, for any state the size of the united kingdom, freedom of movement opt-outs, whether within or outside the eu, would be problematic but, in the case of the three micro-states, permanent derogations must surely be considered reasonable. as shadow rapporteur, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, for his positive approach throughout the negotiations on our text. i will be very pleased tomorrow to vote in favour.
mr president, so the three micro-states are the next in line for the association agreement – i can’t help but think of pacman as he goes round gobbling things up as he goes along! but if these nations think that they’re going to get some special treatment, i would refer them to the words of the commissioner – there is no such thing as partial integration he says; there are a lot of laws and rules of the eu and the single market that have to be taken on board. despite some of the earlier words about concessions and temporary opt-outs, i wonder just how long those will last. i’m thinking specifically in terms of the banking regimes of these countries – just how long they’ll be tolerated once they get closer to the eu, the single market and all of the other rules that go with it. my advice to these three excellent micro-states, actually, would be ‘watch out, pacman’s coming, start running’.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, there are more than 100 million disabled persons in the eu, a figure that is expected to rise to 120 million by 2020. persons with disabilities in europe often have difficulties accessing many basic products and services on an equal basis with other people. that means daily exclusion from society and from using basic products and services, something that is taken for granted by the majority, such as going to a bank, withdrawing money from an atm, entering a school or university or library, a theatre or any public building, using the metro, buying a ticket. we must ensure closer engagement and proper consultation with the disability community. we need to hear their needs and act on the reality of their daily-lived experiences so that no one is left out or falls behind in all areas of society. and that’s what this report is about: ‘nothing about us without us’, as my friends in the disability community say, and i know they will be looking for a good result when we vote on this report. we must not let them down.
mr president, we absolutely have to improve accessibility to enable people to use products and services, especially the disabled. i can’t help wondering, though, if so much top—down legislation may not always be the answer. things like international trade bodies coming together, and manufacturers, companies, working together to get closer to the customer, might be a more efficient way. i also have to flag up one thing that the commissioner mentioned earlier, which always sets alarm bells ringing for me: ‘future proofing’. i don’t believe that future proofing is actually possible. in fact, i think it may have been an idea invented by king canute when he was trying to stop the tide. i don’t think it can be done. if you set out to future proof, rather than being flexible, and rather than allowing businesses to react to the market, you are actually having a negative effect when you want a positive one. so, yes of course, more accessibility for the disabled, but don’t be canute.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, eu socialists have an obsession about money laundering; a total fear that some poor over-taxed soul might make an extra centime or an extra penny. this taxes your every waking moment, if you’ll pardon the pun! some clever creature will always find a way around taxes, that’s just the way it is. we look to minimise it in the uk and move on. this is better than crucifying every job-creating, hard-working businessman or businesswoman, disrupting their business with pointless money-laundering bureaucracy and seizures of money until they can prove what they’ve done with it or where they got it. business people need to get on with creating wealth and jobs. the uk is less neurotic about money laundering and we have lower unemployment. youth unemployment in spain stands at 34%, in italy 30%, in france 21%, – surely wealth and job creation through the cutting, not the increasing, of red tape is more useful to the citizens of europe than any sort of european socialistic avarice and jealousy of hard-working, successful businessmen and women who want to keep the fruits of their labour and employ their fellow citizens. the eu wants to turn all of us into a spy state. meanwhile, the european investment bank bankers will have immunity in the uk, even after brexit. even after brexit! this is appalling. this is hypocrisy of immunity. one rule for the eu, one rule for the rest of us.
mr president, indeed, combating terrorism sounds like a great idea. nobody – nobody – is more in favour of combating terrorism than i am. absolutely. let’s get to grips with it, let’s stop them getting their dirty money, let’s stop this money laundering. but hang on. then something occurred to me. in all of the debates that i sit through here, and i’ve sat through a lot today, often one of the things that gets mentioned is that you’re really quite frustrated that you can’t get to grips with banks and bankers and finances and that you can’t really peek into bank accounts as much as you’d like. i’ve heard this for five years now. isn’t it really convenient to put up russia, terrorists and all sorts of baddies and say ‘oh, we must get to them. i know: we need to be able to see into people’s bank accounts, we need more power for the financial authorities, and we need to be able to blacklist people if they don’t play along’. strongman arguments. i’m a little concerned, a little suspicious. yes, combat terrorism, but i think – i detect – a little bit more about this: i think you’d like to have a peek into someone’s bank account.
mr president, this is a new, hugely ambitious, hugely expensive system for controlling people entering the eu, a visa scheme which will be in common use across the eu, disregarding the fact that different countries may have different requirements as to who enters their country – so a visa could be for a different place or perhaps for a different person. but it’s not just that. one of the things that has been pointed out was that this is about combating terrorism, yet most terrorism appears now to be carried out by so-called home-grown terrorists, of the second or third generation of people who’ve been here. the system is intended to control the number of people coming in, yet already we’ve had millions of people coming to the eu, many of them actually invited in. they’re already here. this appears to be a high-tech, high-cost exercise in shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the scale of life lost in the mediterranean is nothing short of abhorrent. eu migration policies have essentially authorised the death of thousands of refugees at sea. the eu has washed its hands of its responsibility for this humanitarian crisis. the libyan coast guards are still dragging vulnerable refugees from unseaworthy rafts. refugees are still being thrown into detention centres to rot. refugees are still being starved, beaten, deprived of water, forced to live in abhorrent squalor and some are even murdered. the scale of this crisis has been fed by eu asylum policy, which is facilitating torture. shame on the european people’s party (epp) and the far right who argue to use the large-scale amount of funding to force vulnerable people into unsafe countries under the guise of flexibility and balance. we need a sustainable solution based on the principles of dignity, safety and fundamental rights. no human being is illegal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, on wednesday, 6 march, frans timmermans, our esteemed colleague, said that europe is no longer experiencing the migration crisis we lived through in 2015. this is backed up by un statistics that show an 89% reduction in mediterranean crossings from 2015 to 2018. good news, eh! and then, all of a sudden, here we are with a eur 10 billion package to deal with asylum and migration – asylum and migration that the great mr timmermans says is no longer a big deal. and what’s the money going to be spent on, then? well, it includes bribe payments to third countries to set up camps to keep people in. it includes money to pay countries within the eu to settle migrants in their countries, and it includes a generally vague amount which i think is just generally for political use and which isn’t particularly specified, but – hey ho! – it’s only eur 10 billion of taxpayers’ money. what this actually amounts to is an organisation that has decided it can’t stop mass immigration and, what’s more, it actually thinks it’s a rather good idea. therefore, we’re going to make sure that everyone, in the spirit of solidarity – that lovely word we hear so often – gets to take their share and gets paid to take people in, regardless of what the people in those countries might have thought. because let’s not forget, your great horror in this place is the awful populists; these terrible people who actually listen to what their electorate say. you’ve got european elections coming up and, to my great concern and sadness after events in westminster tonight, it would appear there’s a very strong chance that the uk may take part in those. do you seriously think that measures like these will go unnoticed? you had a problem with people across the rest of the eu gathering in their anti-eu feelings, you had a problem that at least a third of the votes in that election were probably going to go to anti-establishment forces. well, i can tell you that if the uk is forced down the route of another eu election and we have these kinds of issues to deal with, you’re going to have the really enjoyable prospect of 25, 30 or 35 little nigel farages running loose in this parliament. i’m sure you’ll be looking forward to that. if you’re going to go down this route, i strongly suggest that you advise your colleagues to get the brexit bill sorted fast, otherwise we’re going to be here to haunt you and it’s going to be very unpleasant.
madam president, improving the financial aspects of the eu’s migration policy is essential and, therefore, i welcome the progress that this proposal brings. my colleague, ms miriam dalli, the rapporteur, has put a strong emphasis on the importance of allowing local authorities to play a central role in european migration policy. her focus on the importance of human rights and, in particular, human dignity is essential. the eu and its member states have mostly adopted a shameful attitude towards refugees and migrants and it’s crucial that we shift away from this tendency. i’m particularly worried about the pressure put on many people to voluntarily return to their country of origin. when organising voluntary returns, authorities should make sure that potential returnees have genuinely and freely agreed to this return, and this is not always the case today. all across the eu, citizens and grassroots organisations have been taking responsibility for humanitarian relief and integration regarding migrants and refugees, and i have often spoken in this chamber about care for calais and other organisations that help refugees and migrants living on the streets. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i’m very much hoping after nearly 20 years that this is my penultimate speech in this parliament, and that i won’t be coming back here again in july. i’m sure many of you here would share that sentiment. mr barnier, i told you that treaty wouldn’t go through the house of commons, you didn’t believe me, it’s been rejected and i think you pushed your luck too far. you ask for too much and this morning you find yourself short of gbp 39 billion, so i’m sure you’re feeling a bit sore about that, but don’t worry, help is at hand – because the house of commons today will do i’m sure their utmost to betray the brexit vote. they’re even going to vote against what article 50 said, which is of course that we leave on 29 march with or without a deal. i have to say i think the gap now between our political class in the uk and public opinion is a gaping chasm because be in no doubt, public opinion is hardening. there is a greater sense of unity in the country than i’ve seen for some years. we simply want to leave. that applies to many who voted remain as well – because they respect the very principle of democracy. we’ve had enough. we’ve seen the snarling anger towards our country of mr verhofstadt, the bureaucratic intransigence of mr barnier, the constant stream of insults that come from mr tusk, and we’re of one mind: we don’t want to be governed by you. we want to govern ourselves. i’m sure the next instalment of this will be the british prime minister, next thursday, going to the european summit in brussels and another humiliating display where she begs for an extension to article 50. well, i’ve got a solution to all of this. when i heard you, mr barnier, say this morning that if this withdrawal agreement gets passed and the next phase of negotiations could last for up to four years, i thought, ‘enough’. we don’t want to waste four more years of our lives – four more years of agony. you don’t want to waste another four years. you’ve got your plan – you want a ‘united states of europe’, you want your army, you want everyone to join the euro, you want to get rid of the nation states – we’re just a damned nuisance. add to that, as mr verhofstadt said, the european elections. you don’t want me coming back here, or hordes of eurosceptics coming back here, so there is a simple solution and that is that the british request to extend is vetoed at that european summit and we leave on 29 march. most of the preparations have been done. even if there are a few short-term bumps in the road, we leave and both you and we can get on with the rest of our lives. that is the only neat solution ahead of us. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, now, mrs may may be totally incompetent, but she is following a plan. right from the start, the plan was to delay brexit, impede brexit and, finally, to overturn brexit. the whole leaving process has been built on false arguments. the principal one being that we cannot leave without the mythical good deal. now, the deal is appallingly bad and it has been rejected by the commons – not because it was bad, but because it wasn’t bad enough for them. later today, parliament will reject leaving on the so-called no deal option. on thursday, it is likely to vote in favour of an extension of article 50, but what for? mr juncker has already told her majesty’s government – like naughty schoolchildren – that there will be no third chance to renegotiate. in the uk, we have a government and a parliament that does not want to leave the european union and it intends to betray the democratic decision of the referendum. now, vice-president timmermans has expressed his exasperation with the uk in rejecting the eu’s deal. mr timmermans said that only the uk parliament can give direction in this matter. but this is not so. the council and commission can give direction. when the commons asks for an extension to article 50 then you must reject it. article 50 says that if no agreement is reached by 29 march then the treaties automatically cease to apply. do nothing and ensure that the uk is ejected from the european union on 29 march. do yourselves a favour, do us a favour, and kick us out!
madam president, last night mps from all parties voted again to reject the withdrawal agreement. i regret that sufficient progress has not been made in this respect. the attorney general’s advice is clear: the legal risk remains unchanged. without evidence of brussels bad faith, the uk would have no internationally lawful means of exiting the backstop. my party has always been clear. we want an orderly exit from the eu and a brexit deal that works for both the united kingdom and the european union, and indeed for our closest neighbours in the republic of ireland, but that agreement must respect the constitutional and economic integrity of northern ireland. can i also respond to a couple of things that have been raised from the floor. there’s been much talk of the rights of citizens and i agree that citizens should not be a bargaining chip in this negotiation. the house of commons has already said that we should move to protect the rights of citizens in all eventualities. that is a challenge for this house to take up and to stop talking about.
madam president, don’t count on it! i have listened this morning with a heavy heart to what i have heard in this chamber. i have listened to nothing positive, in fact it will all be negative. people are stuck in trenches, and nothing constructive is coming forward. mr timmermans said, so here we are, solutions must come from london. do you not think, mr timmermans, that you and mr juncker have a part to play as well, that you have got to find a solution also? ms zimmer let the cat out of the bag: you will not annex northern ireland, irish unity is not at stake here, even nationalist parties do not want a referendum on the border, they accept the good friday agreement – put that all to bed. and can i say something to you, mr barnier? you said that the responsibility lies solely with the uk. but what i say to you, sir, is that you also have a tremendous responsibility and it is not good enough for you to simply consult with people from northern ireland who tell you what you want to hear. there is another voice in northern ireland, and you should be listening to that as well. and i’m sorry to have to say it to you, but, with the greatest respect, your treaty is flawed. it’s damaged and it’s not going to work. we need to find another way, and we do need an extension on article 50. yes, we do need an extension to find that other way, and it’s not good enough to be told that we need to have a reason for an extension. we need an extension to move forward and get a good deal: i personally and my party and the people that i represent, we want a good deal. and let me tell you, mr barnier, this morning the uk government announced that all goods flowing from the republic of ireland to northern ireland will come unhindered. can you say the same?
madam president, we have witnessed another crushing defeat for the uk government in its second meaningful vote on a deal that would have been disastrous for wales, taking us out of the single market and the customs union. it’s clear that the uk parliament cannot come to a meaningful conclusion and so it’s time to turn back to the people. the concentration of wealth in london has got us into this mess and the concentration of power in westminster is keeping us trapped in it now. democracy is the way forward. we must give people a final say on their future now that we are seeing the real facts. things have changed. when events change, people change their minds. that is their right. wales, my constituency, has done that: 55% now back remain, a 14% increase on 2016. we need an extension of article 50 and we need that for a people’s vote.
madam president, people in the north of ireland have had enough of this shambolic mess. our clear will to remain in the eu has been ignored. the utter chaos in westminster – not just last night, but throughout the entire brexit process – has left communities in despair. this farce is tory designed, but it is being delivered to the people of the north of ireland, via partition, by the dup. we consider the withdrawal agreement and its backstop to be the ‘least worst’ option that the people can accept. that has been totally rejected – again by the reckless political establishment in britain. the european union has committed to supporting the good friday agreement, in all of its parts. that includes the legitimate, democratic pathway to irish unity and, despite what jim nicholson said, it is a provision of the good friday agreement. the british prime minister herself believes that brexit is increasing support for irish unity. the european council said, in april 2017, that if ireland is reunited then the whole island will remain a part of the eu. i remind the council and the commission of that. the eu has said that we need to prepare for a no-deal, for a crash. who in their right mind would sit on a train that is going over a cliff or being dangerously delayed or derailed? so the people want to get off that train, and the only way off it is irish unity. my appeal to the council and the commission is that you advocate the holding of a referendum on irish unity. it is legitimate, it is democratic, it is in the good friday agreement. if you are going to uphold it in all of its parts, then uphold that part too. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i apologise to the british people for the lies told by our politicians. mr tajani, an italian, tells a german newspaper that the british people did not want brexit. in the 2017 general election, 80% of our people, the british people, voted for parties to deliver brexit. they lied. ms may said no deal is better than a bad deal. she then asked the uk parliament to vote on a bad deal. tonight she will ask parliament to vote again, but this time for a no deal brexit. she will vote against no deal. tonight a conservative prime minister, backed by labour, will cancel brexit. they lied to you. this is dino: ‘democracy in name only’. as for messrs tusk, barnier and the rest of you, and the useful leo varadkar, there’s a special place in hell reserved for dinos, and ms may will be joining you too. so i call on the british parliament, join me on 29 march in parliament square and, this time, let’s really take back control.
madam president, two days ago, doctors diagnosed my uncle with a terminal illness and he will die this weekend. he spent his life in public service, protecting children from abusers, paedophiles and violence. he was a great welsh democrat. he voted to leave in june 2016 and he will die not seeing brexit. he will die not seeing brexit because of a political class that despise him and voters in britain, a class who believe that they are far superior in the way that they think they should control our lives and do not wish to listen to the voters who wanted to get rid of them. he will die because he will not get a brexit before his death because of traitors like tony blair and dominic grieve who collude with foreign leaders to stop the democratic vote of the british. my uncle, i hope, will have god on his side and bless his soul, but for those of you who have denied him the right to brexit and denied those 17.4 million people brexit, god will not be on your side when they unleash their anger in the ballot box.
madam president, last night we saw another manifestation of the inability of the british parliament to reach a consensus. a reduced majority, but still the fourth most devastating defeat in history for a uk government. last night theresa may set out three options. the first was to revoke article 50 – possibly the first time those words have passed her lips in public. secondly, she talked about holding a second referendum. ditto. and don’t underestimate the significance of her saying those words. the third option was to negotiate a new deal. i think, though, that the message has finally got through in westminster that the third option is not possible in any sensible timeframe. so now it’s down to no deal or no brexit. it seems very likely that tonight the uk parliament will reject no deal. they will not reject no brexit. of course, we have a limited direct role here, we have to choose our language carefully, we’re giving signals. so let me assure colleagues here that there is a strong will in the uk for a second vote. the people’s vote campaign is the biggest grassroots pro-eu european movement. polls show a majority in favour of a second referendum. like all things brexit, it won’t be easy, but don’t believe the voices you’ve heard from the brits here today. seven out of nine speakers today represent only 1.5% of the seats in the house of commons. they are spouting their usual rot and nonsense. they are not the patriots. they are the ones advocating a no-deal brexit, and that’s an act of unparalleled harm to the british people and the european union. they are not the patriots. nobody calling themselves a patriot would advocate that kind of harm. no one laying claim to the title unionist would advocate a no-deal brexit. no one who wants to support the good friday agreement would advocate a no-deal brexit. they are not in the majority – actually they are all in the bar coalescing around a beer now. they don’t even bother to stay and listen. so i say to them: you are not today’s people. you are yesterday’s voices. we are the voices of today, and young people support my position completely. (applause)
madam president, after the first rejection of the deal by the house of commons back in january, theresa may tried to renegotiate just one point, the irish backstop, in order to appease the right wing of her party. but for a majority in the house of commons that was not the main problem with her deal. there were other problems and she made no attempts to address those issues. she only tried to appease the right wing of her party and she failed. so where does that leave us? a majority in the house of commons does not want to leave without a deal, but the only deal on the table has been rejected. where do you go from there? logically, there are only two possibilities: either you negotiate an alternative deal or you reconsider brexit. the chances of an alternative deal look vanishingly small at the moment. reconsidering brexit needs a referendum and, as we just heard from ms girling, there is a majority in public opinion that wants another referendum and opinion polls show that, if there were another referendum, the british people would vote to remain in the european union. it’s absolute folly to proceed with brexit on the ground that it is the will of the people when it may very well no longer be the will of the people. it’s at least worth checking. (applause)
mr president, afghanistan is, according to almost all of the un league tables, one of the worst governed, poorest and most corrupt places on the planet. the interesting thing is to ask why. why has it developed that way? i don’t want to over—simplify as there’s more than one factor in play, but at least part of the answer is that afghanistan was never a nation state. no single ethnic group constituted a majority. the demography is a mixture of tajiks, hazara, uzbeks and so on. it was created, if you like, artificially, as a buffer state and therefore its history has been a series of coups, dictatorships, invasions and revolutions. one of the most warm and profound and important developments of the last half century has been the multiplicity of new states in the world. the world has gone from having around 80 sovereign countries when the european union was formed to 200 today, and this move towards smaller states has coincided with a move towards more democracy and more prosperity. how sad to see this continent alone going in the opposite direction.
mr president, despite no one disagreeing on the urgent need for better eu—level laws for the benefit of disabled people, this proposed legislation is a disappointment. the uk government worked hard behind the scenes to water down its ambition and should be ashamed of its role. in particular, mandatory access requirements for buildings and physical infrastructure were excluded, including for transport and vehicles. the implementation periods concerned are also far too long. on the other hand, i welcome the positive elements to improve access for all to electronic services such as online banking and self—service terminals, as well as the technical annex and the strong penalties requirements and working group involvement of disabled people’s representatives. for this reason i voted for the report.
madam president, german car manufacturers exported cars to the usa to the value of more than usd 20 billion in 2017. in 2015, the figure was over usd 26 billion, and this notwithstanding the fact that german car manufacturers have little or no input in the formulation of us regulations. nonetheless, they export very successfully. but let me come to the key point, that us tariffs on imported cars are 2.5%. eu tariffs on cars exported from the usa, by comparison, are 10%. it is asymmetric. the us administration has a point, whatever colleagues may say. and, in consequence, us exports of cars to the eu are a tiny fraction: only usd 48 million, as against usd 20 billion. now to the resolution. the resolution criticises the usa for withdrawing from the paris agreement but, mr jadot, you cannot have the government that you want in someone else’s country. indeed, you can’t always have the government that you want in your own country. i certainly know that now and i have known it for some years. what we’re looking at here is the politicisation of trade. the politicised paraphernalia in this resolution shows how difficult and tricky it is for the eu to finalise trade agreements, and that is the penalty that the people of the eu member states pay for the politicisation of trade, which is aided and abetted by so many colleagues and is something i deplore. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that’s two questions. if you don’t mind, i’ll just answer one. in this debate we’re discussing trade, not climate change, and this is a serious point that i’m making. it is simply that you should not, with your considerable political expertise, tack irrelevant things about climate change – or, for that matter, other irrelevant things – onto what should be basic ‘plain vanilla’ trade agreements. if you do so, it will be costly to the peoples of europe whom you claim to represent.
blue-card question. – i just want to clarify from your speech, mr kofod, whether i am right in characterising what you said as being that the european or eu superpower, as you put it, should not talk trade with an administration that it disagrees with, even if that administration happens to be in the one real superpower in the world – the usa – and that you would rather talk to the people in opposition than to those currently in a position to do a trade deal? surely – and, believe me, i understand what it’s like to see a government in place that i disagree with – if we’re talking about trade that affects all of our constituents, all of our countries, there should be discussion about trade for jobs and employment and careers?
madam president, entering trade negotiations with the us at this time would mean colluding in their attempt to smash up the institutions of multilateral trade cooperation and joining trump in the new global game of ‘bully thy neighbour’. it would make a mockery of the idea of trade for all, and would put the final nail in the coffin of the vision of an eu trade policy based on environmental and social justice. with the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) stating that we have only 12 years to solve the climate crisis, it is simply impossible to open trade negotiations with a country that is the world’s second biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and yet is reneging on its climate commitments at every opportunity. how can we be considering offering the us improved trade terms a year after they introduced punitive tariffs on our steel industry, while failing to make their own steel industry compliant with the paris agreement? rather than feeding trump’s ego, we should develop a strong industrial policy that defends european workers and supports the move towards a low-carbon economy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank our rapporteur from the committee on employment and social affairs for the very good work that she did on this report, and i welcome the growing attention that we’re now seeing being given in the semester process to climate change. the report recalls the need to modernise and decarbonise our industry, our transport, our energy sectors and, as we just heard from the council, environmental sustainability matters. if we fail to respond properly, we’re going to see our economy and our societies pay an ever-increasing cost, as we struggle to deal with the development and effects of extreme climate events. if we think of the costs over the last year of forest fires, floods, storms, et cetera, and what that has taken out of the public budget and our public services, the need to invest in resilient infrastructure and good strong public services and utilities is absolutely crucial. for that, we need the fiscal space to be able to carry out real investment.
madam president, we hear about high youth unemployment and wages not rising quickly enough, yet would that not potentially be one effect of there being a large supply of labour – supply and demand? a lot of people have entered the eu, many of them looking for work. obviously, that makes it harder for the people already there. we hear about slow economic growth, but you say that your social aims and social policies are just as important as the growth policies. well, if you take that approach then of course you’re going to slow down economic growth. of course you are. may i suggest that the best way to raise living standards, to get more tax dollars coming in so you can spend them on really nice things, good things, nice projects, is to grow the economy with serious economic policies. nobody would have heard of the good samaritan if he’d been poor.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteurs roberto gualtieri and esther de lange. non-performing loans (npls), as we heard, are a legacy from the last financial crisis and a decade later, the eu has not sufficiently reduced the levels, and therefore action is still needed to prevent a worsening situation in the future. since 2015, npls have declined by only 400 billion, down from one trillion. clearly, there is a long way to go and they remain a big challenge facing banks in the euro area. the only way is to clean up their balance sheet whilst we have a positive economic climate. therefore, i really welcome the improved text from the trilogue because it ensures adequate provisioning of npls in the banks’ balance sheets, and a more gradual provisioning in the earlier years will reduce the potential negative impact on the real economy. whilst this agreement and the recently adopted banking package reduce the risk in the banking sector considerably and bring the eu a little closer to banking union, there are three major reforms that are still needed to ensure that the eu banking sector becomes more resilient. firstly, we need a decisive step towards a pan-european depository scheme to get adequate risk-sharing and equal protection of all eu savers. this is critical. it is a pity that the right side of this house keeps blocking this for ideological reasons, and i hope the next parliament will address this. secondly, sustainable finance should become the norm, not the exception, and as banks are still the main financing source of the eu economy, they have a big responsibility. we have taken steps recently in terms of the sustainable finance package, but my question to the vice-president is: how will the commission ensure that banks exercise this responsibility? finally, given the massive impact on the economy and taxpayers of the last financial crisis, we can no longer have too-big-to-fail banks. what is the commission’s view on the upcoming merger between deutsche bank and commerzbank and, in particular, the impact of this merger on financial stability?
blue-card question. – thank you, madam, for accepting the blue card. it is a genuine question. you used a word that was very interesting to me: ‘sovereignists’. i have not heard that word used in this kind of context before. could you explain to me what you mean by ‘sovereignist’ – is it a pejorative term or is it purely a descriptive one? it struck me as soon as you started speaking. i wasn’t going to blue-card tonight, but i just had to ask you, so could you explain ‘sovereignist’ to me?
mr president, how helpful – a european monetary fund. how helpful. so, when there are countries and organisations and businesses and economies that are struggling, you’re going to pick up taxpayers’ money and throw it over to them. how helpful. it was also really helpful when you got these countries into the eurozone in the first place. that was really, really, helpful of you. the only trouble is, these countries, these organisations, economies and businesses are struggling within the constraints of that zone you so helpfully got them into and now, rather than saying ‘ok, look, it’s not working out here. ok, these economies need to work out for themselves how to do it, these businesses which are unprofitable need to collapse and be replaced’ – because that would be the market, that would be free market capitalism and that’s sinful, isn’t it? – instead, you’re going to get huge sums of taxpayers’ money and prop up things that aren’t working. i like to be helpful as well. i’m a helpful person in a room of helpful people and what i would strongly suggest to you is that you need to understand you cannot book the market. you’re forcing square pegs into round holes and all this is doing is wasting billions of taxpayers’ money on impossible projects – again.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we’ve come a long way since the first exchange of views on this proposal. the original commission text of regulation no 868 unfortunately took a protectionist approach that would have allowed the commission to impose penalties on third-country carriers before complaints against them had been properly investigated. this sent a hugely pessimistic signal to our international trading partners and would have globally damaged our connectivity and our reputation. the original text would also have enabled uncompetitive european carriers to complain about their competitors, giving the commission power to punish them before reviewing evidence. of course it’s right to crack down on unfair competition but not at the expense of damaging consumer choice, increasing ticket prices and costing jobs, as well as affecting the supply chain. however, following the trilogue, i can now support the final agreement, not least because it clarifies member states’ competencies, for example on dispute settlements through their current bilateral air service agreements with third countries, and more. therefore, i think we now strike a satisfactory balance, which i believe will allow the market between the eu and third countries to grow and innovate. for future reference, the eu should always take an outward-looking approach, which is more advantageous in the long term. mr president, this is probably my final speech in this chamber. my first was in 1999. may i take the opportunity to thank the interpreters, both here and in brussels, the secretariat and all the staff of the european parliament bodies for their support and professionalism. i wish them all very well in their future endeavours.
mr president, i was concerned when the debate started with the rapporteur saying ‘if we all get together, we can take on china and trump’. i thought, ‘hang on, where are we going with this?’ but then i saw ‘safeguarding competition in air transport’, so i thought ‘this must be alright, we’re going to be okay, it’s about free trade, surely’. then the commissioner started off by, first of all, congratulating us on a constructive debate before we’d started – which i thought was kind of him – and then went on to a list of shiny new rules of things they want to do. now i find out really, after listening intently all the way through, what this is about, actually, is taking away individual deals that have been done and the eu taking on the negotiating. you’ve noticed that some of the countries in the world give state aid and boost up their airline, so you think, ‘we are going to get back at this, we’re going to dip a few quid in ourselves’. what it turned out to be was nothing to do with free trade but everything to do with state aid, and i’m a little concerned that maybe the whole competition part of this was a misnomer and maybe it was just about helping with state aid.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. with your debate today you are opening the budgetary consultations for 2020 - a special year, firstly because it is the last year under our 2014-2020 budgetary framework, secondly because we have uncertainty about brexit and as of today no one knows whether our colleagues from the united kingdom will want to participate next year with all the rights and obligations under the budgetary framework which they unanimously adopted with us in 2013, including in the council, and thirdly because we have a year of change, a year of change in parliament and also in the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank mrs hohlmeier for her clever preparatory work, which consists, on the one hand, in bringing together the different expectations of the groups and of the colleagues in the committees here. this is not easy year after year, and it is even more difficult in an election year. i also thank the colleagues who were willing to get involved and not campaign around a parliament position, and i also thank her for having the same objectives as parliament, which are basically the same as those of the commission. a year of change. you are now responsible for the parliamentary position. i hope that the next parliament will not see this in a diametrically different light but will build on it. i therefore hope that as many as possible will feel responsible for budgetary policy in the next parliament, that is to say, will be re-elected, from the rapporteur to many others who can contribute their expertise on budgetary matters and could contribute in the next parliament. the change in the commission is an equally exciting question, because the conciliation period will in any case start on 29 october with the juncker commission, and will end on 18 november perhaps with the next commission, or, if we have to stay in office longer because you do not accept the next commission on time, with the juncker commission. let's wait and see. in any case, i think that continuity in this matter is very important for the stability of europe. a bridge to the future of europe, investing in citizens, innovation and security the title chosen by mrs hohlmeier. i think it is a clever title to convince the public of the added value of europe and european finances. our common priorities remain competitiveness, economic growth, better and more jobs and living conditions, research, the young generation, the fight against environmental developments and the fight against climate change. and we share the view that promoting economic growth and competitiveness is a very high priority. the last six years have been good years for the european economy as a whole. year after year, economic growth has been higher than initially forecast. year after year, we had more tax revenue than the estimate predicted. year by year, the number of jobs has increased, unemployment has decreased and youth unemployment has also fallen. but the last six years have been good years. and according to all the forecasts, economic development is now dimming. all the more reason why a 2020 budget must have instruments that are properly applied against stagnation, against recession, against crisis, for economic growth, for jobs, for prosperity, for competitiveness in the context of our limited finances. from cosme and our smes to start-up support for innovative minds in the european union, from erasmus+ to our intercultural skills, from cybersecurity to the fight against climate change and for nature conservation, we have a wealth of programmes that point in the right direction and that need to be decided and strengthened now within the limits of our limited resources. and we need as much flexibility as possible. the european parliament and the commission should fight together, sometimes against the council, to ensure that we can act with flexibility and react in a timely manner to the challenges and tasks that may be facing us in the coming year. we will then ensure that there is a sufficient level of payments, particularly in cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council adopted its guidelines at the ecofin council on 12 february, and today and in the coming days you will be joining us as the second budgetary authority, with your guidelines and priorities. we in the commission will do our best to mediate between the council and parliament in order to achieve the best possible agreement. the spring trilogy on 20 march will be the first opportunity to do so. i repeat, your priorities are almost identical to those of the commission. i thank you for a good preparation and for all of you being able, being able to not mix the election campaign with what we all have to do in the interests of our citizens in terms of crafting the 2020 budget. thank you very much.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking the question. i’m intrigued by the answer to this one, because i heard you say the word ‘more’ a lot, and this is a really ambitious and big budget that’s being put forward, it’s forever growing. do you think there could ever be a time when the eu budget would actually shrink or stay the same, or do you think, like mr creosote in the monty python sketch, it’ll just keep on eating and eating more taxpayers’ money until eventually one day it just explodes, because it has had so much money in it? i’m intrigued to see if you think it’ll just continue to grow.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, unlike the previous speaker, i don’t mind the commissioner being on the phone. he might be on the phone to his bookies placing a bet on some of the things in this and i’ll get round to what i think is quite a wild bet in a moment. this is a really ambitious budget proposal. there’s lots of extra spending. what have we got here? it talks about erasmus getting lots more money, more money for free movement, more money for the administrative budget and of course military spending — you know, that thing that we were told in the uk wasn’t real and was a dangerous fantasy. there’s lots of that, but then there’s something in paragraph 28 that i think is really important. the uk will pay up its share into these schemes, you say. well, at the moment, nobody really knows what’s going to happen. yes, okay, you’ve been fortunate. you’ve got theresa may, who throws money like confetti because she frankly doesn’t know what she’s doing and you’ve got the labour party that would love to come in and be friends with you. all of this probably means you’re making a good bet there but, on the other hand, there is chaos at the moment. as anyone who turns on to the bbc parliament channel or reads a british newspaper will know, there’s complete chaos and it could well be that these jaded old parties with their pathetic, timid leaders may well crumble and split into independent pieces, and then you might get someone who listens to what the british people are saying and they are not quite so keen to throw billions and billions of pounds as a farewell gesture, when there are problems at home that need looking at and issues at home. so yes, i understand why you’re taking a gamble with this and why you’re spending such huge amounts on the expectation of british money, but i do think you’re being a gambling man and you’re all counting on something that no one can be absolutely sure of. so, be careful with that because the british might just say ‘non’.
mr president, this parliament’s first and foremost responsibility is to protect its citizens and, in particular, the most vulnerable, and no citizens are more vulnerable than children. in harrowing cases where custody of a child is disputed, and especially in the cases of international abduction, legal instruments must be clear and provide no grey areas or loopholes. i welcome many points of the proposal, in particular the mandatory hearing of the child. as a co-founder of the children’s rights intergroup in this parliament and as a longstanding advocate for children’s participation, i believe children’s voices must be included in matters that concern them and their future. i must point out, however, that more progress must be made. family units encompass many realities and registered partners should be added to the scope of the regulation. as a modern institution, the european parliament must demonstrate that it understands the many forms a family can take, especially when failing to do so can be detrimental to the care of children, as is the case in examples of international child abduction.
madam president, the generalised scheme of preferences is one of three schemes that the eu offers to developing countries. it’s entirely sensible to encourage developing countries to integrate into world trade. i myself have stood on a manifesto calling for ‘trade, not aid’, and certainly the benefits that derive from trade are likely to last much longer than those that derive from aid. but – and it is a big but – the eu uses these schemes to advance its own political agenda. this is not just me saying this. the eu itself, the trade commissioner and mep colleagues, have been very clear, indeed transparent, about it. they have even been rather proud of it, as was ms schaake earlier, in a very good speech. to give one example, sri lanka, never a rich country, suffered badly from the 2004 tsunami. notwithstanding, the eu shortly afterwards withdrew the gsp+ scheme from sri lanka for entirely political reasons. in a word, that action was spiteful. it must not happen again.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, for the past five years i have engaged extensively with kazakhstani civil society. standing in solidarity with persecuted human rights defenders, i’ve become familiar with the bleak human rights situation in the country. there are many worrying cases. i will highlight a few of them. ablovas dzhumayev was sentenced to three years simply for posting online his criticism of the government. aigul akberdiyeva, a mother of four, is being persecuted in the same case – and i’m very disappointed that the final resolution we will vote on does not include her name, as her case is still pending and is just as relevant as the others. international observers who monitor such cases are expelled by the authorities without justification, as happened to lyudmyla voloshyna and valeriy yavtushenko. judges such as the chair of aqtau city court, malik kenzhaliev, can be punished when they do not follow orders. similarly, others, like aset abishev, sentenced to four years in prison, and almat zhumagulov and kenzhebek abishev, sentenced respectively to eight and seven years, are punished under the pretext of the fight against extremism. they must all receive justice.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this parliament has a specific mandate and responsibility to its citizens and must be a beacon to kazakhstan and our neighbours. the mechanism to allow these debates, bizarrely, is in the hands of unelected bureaucrats and although human rights of the people of kazakhstan cannot be belittled, we have a much more pressing human rights issue right on our doorstep. with the presidential elections in ukraine at the end of this month, the security and prosperity of the eu relies on eu standards being adhered to in countries that have an association agreement with the eu, countries that will potentially join the eu. reliable reports from human rights watchdogs warn of serious challenges to democracy when the current government, before an election, is putting undue pressure on independent tv channels like news one and channel 112. if you do not have a free press, you cannot have a free and fair election. i put forward a resolution on freedom of the press in ukraine, which was signed by 43 meps from all groups in this parliament. the european people’s party (epp) bureaucracy blocked this. i hope they do not do this when it is represented next strasbourg. we need to send an unequivocal message to ukraine and the world on the need for freedom of the press.
author. – mr president, human rights defenders and trade union activists are arrested every day. they are arrested simply for campaigning for workers’ rights, for environmental standards and against the death penalty. the iranian government is harassing bbc persian journalists and their families. eu-iranian dual nationals remain detained after a lack of due process and under vague charges. we heard this week that the prominent human rights lawyer, nasrin sotoudeh, was given a long prison sentence for defending dissidents and those brave woman who removed their hijab in public. by inflicting such a harsh sentence, the regime is making an example out of nasrin and sending out a clear message that freedom of expression is not accepted. i have a message for the iranian authorities: we will not stop calling for the release of nasrin sotoudeh, taher ghadirian, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe and all those who are unfairly detained and have been sentenced without a fair trial. you cannot silence civil society. you cannot repress ideas, especially with the whole world watching. for our part, we will continue to support iranians who want democracy and freedom for their country.
author. – mr president, the atrocious record of human rights in iran is all too familiar to us in this house. journalists and ngos that do not conform to the wishes of the government regime face routine harassment and repression, a pattern that extends to all groups and individuals that seek peacefully to oppose or protest against the actions of that brutal government. these actions amount to a breach of all fundamental rights of assembly and expression. freedom of religion is also vigorously repressed, as is demonstrated by the ongoing persecution of christians, baha’is and other minorities. in recent months, we have seen an intensification of the systematic campaign of house-church raids as christians are arrested, and often violently interrogated, merely for the fact of peacefully exercising their religious beliefs. several hundred christians have been detained in recent months alone. women’s rights are also severely curtailed in iran, with even the most limited forms of dissent still being punished. in 2018, 39 women were arrested for protesting against the mandatory wearing of the hijab. executions in the country continue to remain extremely high, with a figure standing at 273 for 2018. it does appear, however, that the november 2017 revision of the anti—narcotics law represents a significant improvement, with a dramatic reduction in death sentences. this is a fundamentalist regime that has robbed its people of their rights through its domestic policies, and has all too often impoverished them via its international isolation. so, clearly, this house must condemn that regime. it has done so for years, but so far, sadly, there has been little change to witness.
mr president, the situation of press freedom in iran is very concerning. i am particularly worried about the bbc persian service journalists who have become a target of the iranian authorities. the persecution against bbc journalists started in 2009 when the service launched satellite television. however, recent measures have escalated this persecution against the journalists and their families. the persecution includes a gender dimension, as it is directed primarily against women staff and their families. iran’s record on the treatment of women is infamously poor. the recent sentencing of the human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh to148 lashes and 38 years in prison is particularly despicable. it comes shortly after the appointment of a new hard-line head of judiciary. as the un investigator on human rights in iran, javaid rehman, said, patterns of intimidation, arrest, prosecution and ill-treatment of human rights defenders, lawyers and labour rights activists signal an increasingly severe state response.
mr president, there are very many human rights violations being committed by the iranian regime, as we’ve heard this morning, but i’d like to focus on one group of people. the iranian authorities have been systematically targeting bbc persian staff, and are moving on to the staff of other european broadcasters as well. most of those staff are based in london, and their families in iran have also been targeted. many of those affected are eu-iranian dual nationals, mostly british iranians. one hundred and fifty-two staff have been subjected to an unfair asset-freezing injunction since 2017, and their families have been subjected to arbitrary arrest, travel bans and harassment. i would particularly like to raise awareness about the sexualised defamation campaigns being waged against brave female journalists at bbc persian. i would call on the eu no longer to be silent about this attack on european women, european journalists. we have a duty and a responsibility to defend free journalism. i welcome today’s resolution, coming as it does in the same week that these concerns are being raised in geneva at the un human rights council.
author. – mr president, this urgency was called because of our concern about threats posed by the guatemalan government to the protection of human rights and specifically its decision to withdraw support for the international commission against impunity (cicig). cicig has played a vital role in supporting guatemalan legal and judicial institutions that are crucial to upholding the rule of law and to ensuring the legal and physical safety of human rights defenders, including sakharov finalist lolita chávez. it is deeply concerning that the guatemalan government is showing contempt for its own people by colluding in acts of intimidation. we are also convinced that changes proposed to the national reconciliation law pose a significant threat to the rule of law in guatemala, and would drastically undermine the important progress achieved by cicig. we urge the commission to swiftly disburse the eur 5 million already earmarked for cicig and stand ready for further support. our negotiations were conducted in a good cooperative spirit, so it’s disappointing and somewhat mystifying, if i’m honest, to hear that the epp will now abstain on this resolution. but we still expect a wide majority to support it and its strong wording of condemnation for democratic and human rights breaches in guatemala.
mr president, i rise under rule 1 on behalf of all colleagues in this parliament. please can we get on with the vote.
mr president, the eu is continuously improving its policies on human rights and trade agreements. our generalised scheme of preferences for trade tariffs sits within a broader human rights policy. it underlines the potential of gsp+ schemes to promote human rights, equality and sustainable development and the eradication of child and forced labour. the european parliament’s report on gsp recognises the potential of the scheme and highlights the shortcomings of the gsp+ schemes and calls for improvements. this is in line with our support for the un’s binding mechanism on human rights in trade agreements, as voted in this parliament last october. whilst the eu could and should do so much more to promote respect for human rights in trade agreements, this will not be made easier by a weakening of the union. equally, outside of the eu, the uk will be toothless in its negotiations for fair trade. and as we already know, the hard brexiteers want trade at any price. i and millions of british citizens would... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, climate change is a global phenomenon that knows no borders. we in europe have a huge responsibility to the rest of the world, particularly those living in fragile countries. we also have a huge responsibility for the world that we bequeath to future generations. i’ve been supporting the young people, inspired by greta thunberg, who are participating in the friday school strikes, demanding urgent action to ensure that life on earth in all its diversity will continue. but are we listening? as a co-founder of the european parliament’s child rights intergroup, it is disappointing to see conservative forces ignore and belittle these concerned youth, denying them opportunities to participate in our policy-making. i particularly want to draw attention to an amazing youth group in my constituency in a school in accrington, called the eco group, who came to the european parliament to present their ideas about the environment. they are the leaders of the future.
mr president, a key principle of the sdgs is that they are universal and that all countries must do their bit, at home as well as abroad, to meet the targets, but i fear that we are failing. i brought with me a shopping list today. tinned veg, tinned fruit, long-life milk, fruit juice and pasta sauce. that’s the current list of the top five items needed at the luton food bank. the ukssd measuring up report looked at the zero-hunger goal with a green, amber and red scoring system. britain didn’t score green for a single target. it is frankly shocking that this government is content to watch one in five children in britain live in homes that are severely food insecure, making it the worst for child hunger in all of europe. we have had four years to think about how to address the sustainable development goals. now it is time to act.
mr president, the sustainable development goals (sdgs) are a commitment to transform our world so that future generations can live in harmony and peace in a much more equal world without poverty and with respect for the environment. all 17 goals identify urgent matters that must be addressed and i applaud the european parliament’s work to stress the legitimacy of the sdgs as a standard for our economies. economic and sustainable development must go hand in hand and growth cannot be understood simply in terms of gdp. in particular, with regard to goal 4, quality education, i must condemn the damage that austerity has inflicted on our education services. quality education is the best investment a government can make and yet education is one of the sectors worst affected by austerity measures. the sdgs are now included in the eu countries’ broader economic strategies. however, the uk’s departure from the eu allows the conservative government to ignore current eu economic policy, which calls for substantial investment in public services including education.
mr president, unfortunately, racism is still a reality in europe with widespread discrimination against people of african descent. black women and lgbtiq+ people face a particularly bleak situation as they find themselves at the intersection of discrimination based on race and gender. access to employment, housing, education and other opportunities remains much more difficult for people of african descent. this is made worse when it comes, for instance, to trans women of colour who are also the target of unparalleled levels of violence. racism in europe is rooted in centuries of colonisation and the bullying of african countries by the west. we need to address these historical trends and accept that they are still at play today, as we have seen in this very debate. however, as the international day for the elimination of racial discrimination approaches, i know that thousands of anti-racist activists will march on the streets, calling for a world against racism. it’s time to stop ignoring the daily reality of life for europeans of african descent and mr dzhambazki needs to understand that we all are from the same dna.
mr president, the christchurch attack reminded us all that we need to do more in this area; we can all agree on that. the question is how. i am the rapporteur of this file. the commission has already made a legislative proposal on this. we are negotiating it at this moment. at this moment compromises are circling. we are having shadows’ meetings. we are going to vote on this in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) next week, and it’s going to be discussed in plenary next month. so maybe i won’t, but you will all get a chance to debate this at length next month. that is the proper parliamentary process, and we should follow it. it is not right for the commission to be able to give a statement to us on their proposal while we are in the midst of negotiating it in committee here. so, whilst i have sympathy with the approach from the european peoples’ party (ppe), i think that we should reject this request.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, tax avoidance is so important to our citizens. it undermines public services, fuels rising inequality and undermines the social contract, so why are we failing to make faster progress? one important reason is that we have our own european tax havens – such as the uk, the netherlands, malta, luxembourg and ireland – whose governments talk tough but block the european cooperation we need to make progress. i am proud that we now have consensus across this house to ban letterbox companies from our continent and to end the outrageous scam of buying citizenship via golden visas, but the greens would go further. we would push for minimum tax rates across the union, prevent tax avoiders from having access to public contracts and stop individual member states from having a veto to block tax progress. as we come to the end of this parliament, we can feel pleased with our progress on tax. but we need the next parliament to transfer the pressure to member states. the health and future of our union depends on them joining us in the battle against inequality and injustice.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, there is a difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion. tax evasion is illegal and should be stopped. tax avoidance, the limiting of tax exposure for companies and individuals, is perfectly legitimate. no one wants to pay more taxes than required. in british law, directors are obliged – obliged – to limit shareholders’ exposure to taxation. the purpose of business is to benefit the people who have worked and invested in companies, not to provide a pool of money for the excessive eu salaries and madcap social job creation schemes which do not work. only business creates real long-term jobs, not state bureaucrats. britain cuts bureaucracy to help small- and medium-sized businesses to build employment, which is why our small business sector is strong and unemployment low, unlike france – ask the gilet jaunes, mr moscovici, they don’t seem to agree with the way france is run. money laundering is of course a very bad thing, but the use of terrorism, money laundering linked with terrorism, is just an excuse that is always used. it doesn’t cost money to use some of the methods that terrorists have used. this is just an excuse to interfere in people’s private affairs and interfere in business. this is why great britain is leaving the eu – at least i hope so if we can get rid of this prime minister, and i must apologise on her behalf, but there we are.
blue-card question. – thank you, mr tang. you’ve been seeing the riots in france, the gilets jaunes. obviously they don’t agree with what you’re saying and quite frankly it’s not so much the rich who are getting away with lots of money, its that there’s too much money being spent by the state on crazy schemes and the working classes are not getting a fair deal and they’re not getting jobs. you need to have a free economy, a capitalist economy like the uk, in order to have jobs. it’s the only way you can create them. they have to be created by business and not by the state, and this strangulation is not going to help, is it?
i thought it was the answer.
mr president, unlike most of us, some big business leaders don’t believe they should pay their fair share in taxes. this report highlights the scale and the international dimension of the problem. it’s disappointing, therefore, to see theresa may otherwise engaged with tory brexit at a time when the european union is showing leadership in tackling financial crime. my constituents are tired of abusive business practices. they’ve left our public purse depleted and pushed our public services to breaking point. as with austerity measures, the effects of financial crime are felt most acutely by the poorest and most vulnerable in our society. but the conservative party have always looked out for their own, the bankers, big business, those who already have and want more. we should therefore see brexit for what it is – a project by the right for the right. an opportunity for them to turn the uk into an offshore tax haven, where the offer of deregulation fires the starting pistol on a rapid race to the bottom.
mr president, commissioner in the five years i have been a member in this place, much has changed. nevertheless, there is one thing that hasn’t – the old adage that the eu knows best. i have to agree with the house of commons submission of its reasoned opinion in relation to this subject, which noted the lack of sufficient evidence to justify the discontinuation of seasonal time changes. this plan is yet another example of harmonisation for harmonisation’s sake. so much for the idea of subsidiarity. again we see your philosophy of ever-closer union selfishly being put ahead of the rights of national governments. mr president, it should be for an individual member state to enact seasonal clock changes, as their economy or indeed geography deem it necessary, not the eu institutions. should her majesty’s government surprise us by actually respecting and enacting the vote to leave the eu, then i trust they will see sense and ignore this proposal.
mr president, i listened to a number of speakers today saying that this is not the most important issue that europe has facing it at this present moment in time. how right they are! because when you see the many problems that behold us in europe, certainly i do not believe this is at the top of the tree, and simply doing this for the sake of it is not, in my opinion, good government and is not good decision-making. the commission has already admitted that there is insufficient evidence to support any change to the status quo, and i think it is right in that. i come from northern ireland and we have enough problems, not only with the backstop and brexit and the border, but it seems to me to be totally crazy that where i live, four miles up the road keady and castleblayney would be in different time zones; newry and dundalk would be in different time zones; belcoo and red lion would be in different time zones – it just would not make sense. so we have enough problems and we don’t want to go down that road. what we have at the moment works, so i would say don’t change it now, and i call on members to do the right thing and reject this proposal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, europe’s electricity crisis is the result of irresponsible energy policy-making choices of the unelected commission in brussels. in today’s report, mr kariņš addresses fundamental issues such as the intermittency of renewable energy and the collateral effects of the eu energy subsidies. mr zanonato, on the other hand, strongly believes that further eu harmonisation shall prevent future electricity crises in europe. the eu focused its energy policy on unreliable, expensive, intermittent renewable sources. these authoritarian decisions are undermining competitiveness and are driving energy-intensive businesses outside of europe, increasing what’s called ‘the carbon leakage’ phenomenon. consequently, we are losing jobs and investments altogether. i sincerely hope that the uk will exit the eu repealing all parts of the eu energy and climate policy, which is failing. the uk has a chance to get back in the real world and invest in reliable energy sources such as nuclear and coal, while also exploring national indigenous energy resources such as the local undiscovered shale gas.
madam president, we are celebrating 40 years of labour party representation in the european parliament. labour women have played a huge role in the life of this parliament: not just on the women’s rights committee, but leading in other areas such as economy, internal market, international trade, health and environment, foreign affairs, development, culture and education. i want to pay tribute to the pioneering women who came before me, and the sisters who stood alongside me in 2014: janey buchan, barbara castle, ann clwyd, joyce quinn, christine crawley, carole tongue, pauline green, anita pollack, angela billingham, veronica hardstaff, glenys kinnock, eluned morgan, susan waddington, arlene mccarthy, linda mcavan, nina gill, catherine stihler, mary honeyball, glenis willmott, lucy anderson, anneliese dodds, theresa griffin, judith kirton-darling, clare moody and alex mayer. it is 100 years since women won the vote; now we have a statue of millicent fawcett in parliament square, commemorating the suffragette movement. she’s holding a sign that reads: ‘courage calls to courage everywhere’. well, we need that courage more than ever now, so i call on women across the uk and europe to step up the fight to defend european values.
madam president, this just might be the last monday night that i get an opportunity to stand here and represent the people of the north of ireland who voted to remain within the eu, because brexit is dragging us out of the eu against the democratically expressed wishes of the people who voted to remain. brexit is dismantling the good friday agreement. it’s knocking down its pillars bit by bit and the british government is no longer even pretending to act with rigorous impartiality or political neutrality. it is appeasing unionism by scrapping 50-50 recruitment in policing and scrapping the good friday agreement guarantees for rights and equality. nationalism and republicanism have turned their backs on westminster, rejecting all of the candidates who were willing to take their seats in that parliament, and this is because the majority of the people in the north of ireland who voted to remain within the eu are seeing what the british government is doing as a consequence of brexit and the majority of the people in the nationalist republican community are rejecting the fact that the british government is dragging us out of here against our wishes. so, once again, as i stand here, i say to you, to all the people who are listening in on the screens, that even though this is the last opportunity that i might get here on a monday night to represent them, perhaps if the solution to brexit, which is irish unity, is something that is embraced by all then there may be an irish republican back here representing the people of the north of ireland in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, may i first of all congratulate axel on a job very well done in getting this file to this particular stage. now colleagues, my priority throughout has been to make sure that rightholders and creators continue to make a living in the creative industries and that their exclusive economic rights, including communication to the public, were protected. this was essential, given the emergence of new business models and platforms, which has led to an un-even playing field. it was not an easy negotiation, but i’m satisfied that my particular goal was achieved and that the necessary safeguards are in place. i will therefore be supporting the outcome in today’s votes, given the many improvements which have been made and these include: text and data mining will be possible for commercial purposes across the eu for the first time; article 11 was improved during negotiations so that the future of publishing industry is secure; the right will only apply to individual words and small extracts of texts that are shared online; article 13 clarifies that the platforms within the scope ‘communicatation to the public’ are no longer eligible for the e-commerce safe harbour and will be required to seek authorisation and fairly share revenues which they derive from copyright protected creative works. and the list goes on, and in particular the flexibility that we have been able to maintain for member states is essential and there is not going to be any general monitoring of users. so, despite what some platforms have tried to persuade the general european public of, that has been nothing but an exercise of misleading and misinformation and this parliament will push back against that type of exercise. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, we’re being lobbied extensively by both sides of this debate. on one side i’m hearing from huge numbers of ordinary people who are concerned about the future of their internet, and on the other side, we’ve got cocktail receptions, slick advertising, even saw a taxi on the way here advocating this legislation. now don’t think for a second that the creative industries are uniformly behind this legislation, because they’re not. but the big players are the ones with the money to lobby and i care far more about the voices and views of my constituents, about ordinary people, than the views of lobbyists who are paid to tell us what they want us to think. now, of course, what we need is a balance between protecting creators of copyrighted material and protecting the lawful rights of citizens going about their daily business. but this legislation, in particular articles 11 and 13, does not deliver that balance. it is fundamentally illiberal, because in practice tech companies will end up treating citizens as guilty until proven innocent on copyright, content will end up being removed automatically. it will push one size fits all enforcement upon platforms across europe, despite national copyright law being different from one country to the next. you can’t deal with that minefield, so legal content will end up being treated as though it is illegal. many of you here are true believers in the european project, all i can say is what i see from the united kingdom, british people’s opinions on this place haven’t changed very much, people who supported remain still support remain, people who voted leave still support leave generally speaking, but i have had people come to me to tell me that they voted to remain in 2016 but now would vote leave because of the copyright directive. in other european countries, if you vote for this today, you will drive a wedge between the european union and young people across europe. this is bad legislation. it is classic end-of-term legislation. this parliament has three and half weeks to complete its business ready for the european elections and things are being rushed through because of that. they have not been properly and fully considered. please listen to your constituents on this. please don’t make the chasm between this parliament and the people of the united kingdom, the people of europe, any wider than it already is. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have no problem with people who want to make a living putting their points across – that is absolutely what they should do. and i also have no problem with average members of the public putting their points across. but what i’m seeing, time and time again, is that we are being pushed by the industry rather than being pushed by those creators, and actually when i hear from creators in my constituency i don’t hear of it as this one-sided idea that they desperately want this; i actually hear from both sides. but i’m also seeing from members of the public that they really are very, very concerned about the impact of 11 and 13.
madam president, no one is against fair copyright and protecting the legitimate rights of authors, but this directive is about promoting the interests of multinational corporations and maximising their profits. it is also about controlling and shutting down free speech and dissent not approved of by the media and political establishments. dissenting voices are already being de—platformed and de—monetised and this will institutionalise censorship. ukip meps and others forced a vote on this directive using the rules of procedure, otherwise it would have gone through on the nod last year. members should take note that the european elections will follow shortly. voters should take note of which meps and which parties voted for this directive, and they should vote against them on 23 may. the european union and the political and media establishments want to suppress free speech and dissent. if meps vote for this directive, then they deserve to lose their seats.
madam president, i speak as labour’s spokesperson on culture in the eu, and as someone who worked in the creative sector as the founder of a small to medium enterprise working in the digital sphere. this is the biggest reform of the eu copyright law for 15 years and it will curb the tech giant’s power over online content, including news and current affairs. crucially, it will ensure that creative artists are fairly rewarded for their work. this reform package will address the unfair situation that means a song needs to be streamed 50 million times on youtube before the artist can expect to earn the average uk salary. copyright ensures authors, composers, artists, filmmakers and other creators, receive recognition, payment and protection for their works. it rewards creativity and stimulates investment in the creative sector, and i want to thank organisations such as uk music, directors uk and the writers guild of great britain who... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur. the erdf will remain one of the main investment tools for the european union. indeed, in the next mff it will still account for about 25% of the budget. therefore, the committee on budgetary control will obviously be keen to ensure that the money is spent properly, effectively and efficiently. but we also recognise that it is an important fund, and therefore we would welcome most of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, unlike maybe the commission. i particularly wanted to welcome the initiative or the proposal to allocate a percentage of funds to rural areas for the first time, because we know in the past rural areas have sometimes felt left out from cohesion policy funding. i also wanted to say that i am very disappointed that, possibly, in the future, wales will not be able to benefit from structural funds. we’ve been a huge net beneficiary of structural funds, and it’s sad that we might not be able to benefit from them in the future. but i want to say that the erdf is an important source of funding. even if the uk does leave the european union – and i hope it doesn’t – i want erdf to continue to be successful and i would like this parliament to continue to fight for the erdf in the future.
mr president, on saturday over a million people marched in london calling for a public vote on brexit. amongst them were many busloads of people from my home region, the north-east of england. as the reality of brexit has emerged, the less attractive it has become, as today’s survey of british social attitudes shows. my region has long benefited from substantial investment from the european regional development fund: a billion pounds of eu funding between 2014-2020, bringing vital resources, creating jobs, upgrading our infrastructure and supporting local business. some claim this is uk taxpayer money in the first place. yes, it is, but the eu allocates on the basis of economic need, not political preference. it is solidarity in action. if we stay, the north—east is guaranteed millions of pounds. outside, we are dependent on westminster governments and at the mercy of them. this report includes brexit-readiness clauses. please, let’s not use them. let’s stay.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank our three co-rapporteurs for their work as well. having one set of rules for people who buy digital content and services across europe will make life easier for consumers and businesses alike. the uk was the first country to introduce such legislation, but many member states had no provisions at all, and if you want europe to be a digital superpower, we can’t rely on old analogue regulations. in today’s modern economy, millions of people daily buy apps, subscribe to news outlets, or take part in online gaming, and these new rules will mean consumers have the same base-level of protection wherever they buy products. that also means less red tape for businesses that sell digital content or services across borders. it will also make it easier for people to cancel contracts or seek refunds if those products are not up to scratch, so the recent example of a french newspaper making it very easy to instantly subscribe online but then requiring all cancellations to be done by a paper form should be a thing of the past. so this is a win for consumers, it is a win for european businesses, and we in my group will be supporting it.
mr president, i’m speaking particularly about the new sale of goods directive, which is a significant achievement for consumers, businesses and indeed for the legal experts amongst us, for the future of eu contract law as a whole. as has been said, the new rights for sales of goods that function with software are very important and include rules protecting consumers who rely on updates for their smart phones or other devices that are connected to the internet. more generally, article 14 provides that repairs or replacements for defective goods must be free of charge. other good points include that article 20 requires member states to take appropriate measures to inform consumers of their rights. also to be welcomed is the strengthened emphasis on producer’s liability in article 17. i hope this right can be improved further in future. finally, member states will still be permitted to improve on this directive in key areas such as extending the reversal of burden of proof and protecting the short-term right to reject defective goods. i urge member states to do so. in short, this is a directive well worth voting for and i will be pleased to do so.
rapporteur. – mr president, i requested two minutes to speak and just brief honourable members on the sustainable benchmark legislation. according to the oecd, eur 6.2 billion are needed globally to make our economy more sustainable and to limit global warming to 2°. with this in mind, the report introduces two new types of benchmarks and encourages investments to be channelled towards those who are on a decarbonisation trajectory. it reduces the risk of greenwashes and obliges all benchmark administrators to disclose how they are aligned with the esg (environmental, social and governance) criteria. sustainability is a multifaceted concept. however, some aspects like diversity are often neglected. i recall the first time i spoke in the chamber; it was with president nicole fontaine. twenty years later, surprisingly, she remains the one and only female president of this house. shocking. we claim to be global leaders when it comes to equality. many female members of this house leave to become ministers, prime ministers, commissioners, yet in these 20 years we’ve had no female commission president, we’ve had no female president of the european parliament, and we’ve had no female leader of the big political groups. it is highly unlikely i will be here in the ninth legislature, but i would urge this house to ensure that we address this injustice. the credibility of this parliament depends on it. like climate change, it is a race we can win. we can overcome gender inequality and make our political system more sustainable and diverse. if i may beg the indulgence of this chamber for a few more seconds, given this could be my last plenary, it has been an honour and a privilege to serve in this house with so many passionate colleagues from across the chamber. brexit, i believe, is a colossal mistake, and i fear for the future of my constituents and future generations. as a committed european, i regret the path … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i voted against this report. i have no problem with the clocks going backwards and forwards, but i believe that britain should go onto double summertime – bst throughout the winter, and an extra hour forward in the summer. shifting an hour of daylight from mornings to the end of the working day would be better for tired drivers. indeed, brake says that 450 lives a year could be saved by such a move. it would create savings in carbon emissions, and lighter nights would boost outdoor tourism and leisure activities. finally, on the subject of ticking clocks, five million people have signed a petition. we’ve broken the government’s petitions website because brexit is breaking britain, but there is still time to fix it. stop the clock. revoke article 50.
mr president, i was very amused to hear my labour colleague trying to turn this debate about the time change into a call to stop the clocks on brexit. i tell you, if that were to happen, and there were to be another european election, i can’t imagine that there would be many labour meps returned – precious few tories either, for that matter. isn’t it extraordinary, though, that everyone takes it for granted that this is now an eu decision: that the issue of what time zone you’re in is no longer utterly for the member state involved? for what it’s worth, i think there is a strong case for being permanently in summertime in the uk, where we’re attached to rules that reflect working patterns of a much earlier generation. it does seem to me a strange comment on how stealthily the idea of a european policy has increased over the last 20 years; it just goes without notice, without anyone passing comment that this is now decided here. whichever way we decide, it won’t end the argument. whether this blow might be the be-all and the end-all – here, but here, upon this bank and shoal of time, we’d jump the life to come.
mr president, it may be legal, but it’s not right, it’s not moral and it has gone too far. the super-rich global elite, who avoid paying their fair share by setting up shell companies in exotic tax havens around the globe, must be stopped. each pound they siphon off is a pound that belongs in our classrooms, hospitals and police stations, and it is a slap in the face for the people who pay their taxes day in, day out, after they’ve gone to work. this is an international problem and so needs international institutions, like the eu, with the courage and capacity to push for real reform. this is why we need britain to match these rules, whatever the brexit outcome may be. there are enough problems in my country without us also competing in a race to the bottom on taxation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, it’s good to see our former colleague, mr lehne, here. my takeaways on 2017 discharge are that the eu needs to visibly become a stronger and more effective global actor. not only do we need to enhance our collective foreign and security capabilities as the world’s leading donor, we really do need to review our current way of funding projects with partner countries. otherwise we’re in danger of getting the reputation of having a magic money tree, and this will impact our credibility unless the focus is increased. my questions to the commission on afet expenditure are as follows. firstly, how will the commission tackle the lack of eu visibility of pooled funded projects? will the commission engage in a substantive and thorough review of working with partners and host countries, pushing for a performance-based approach? secondly, following up on the letter that i received from the high representative, could you provide an update to this house on what measures have been taken to increase competition among service providers of eu election observation? (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, just as a recap for those in the real world watching this debate, we are discussing the discharge procedure where meps have a look through the budgets of all the different eu agencies and institutions and give political approval whether to sign off on their financial activities. no bad thing in principle, as it is one of the few ways to hold these shadowy, behind-the-scenes agencies to account, but the procedure, i would argue, lacks some actual clout. one of the biggest talking points has been the european asylum office, which has a budget of eur 86 million. the court of auditors gave an adverse opinion on the legality of its payments. it has had a bad recent history, with high-ranking officios being removed and replaced, due to alleged harassment, misappropriation of funds and breaches of data protection, to name but a few. if we look at the european parliament budget for 2020, it will be increased to over eur 2 billion. on top of that, in the committee on budgets (budg) last night, you approved over eur 3 million for 51 contractual agents to boost media relations and digital communications activity in the member states in order to build a so-called pan-european community ahead of the european elections. this sort of state—sponsored propaganda machine is exactly what i oppose and will continue to oppose to protect taxpayers’ money. if theresa may survives in the short term and continues the brexit betrayal, she says she will meet all financial obligations to the eu, despite there being no legal obligation. so, under the tories, if the withdrawal agreement deal goes through, the british taxpayers are on the hook for gbp 39 billion. for these reasons, i’ll be voting against the accounts of these eu agencies. all these matters and policy areas handled by eu agencies should be operated by democratically elected national governments, either on their own or bilaterally.
mr president, i won’t repeat what the rapporteurs and the other speakers from my group have said about the key amendments which they have tabled to this draft instrument. they make an improvement to the text, and i hope the council will accept them. i’d like to thank the co—rapporteurs, in particular frank engel and charles goerens from the committee on development (deve), because they have stood up for european development policy and presented it as more than a simple foreign policy tool. it is its own distinctive policy, based on values rooted in the fight against extreme poverty and the fight for global justice. in the short time left, just two quick points. firstly, the period in which the new instrument will operate is going to be a crucial one. between now and 2030, the eu and the global community must deliver on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the paris climate agreement, as well as on the promise of creating a sustainable future – not just for ourselves, but for all who share our planet. eu external action and development will be part of that. finally, colleagues, this will probably be the last time i’ll speak to this chamber as an mep, so after 21 years, i would like to say some thank yous. thank you, commissioner mimica, and your staff. you’ve been brilliant to work with. thank you to my colleagues on the committee on development (deve) in particular, the colleagues from the committee on foreign affairs (afet) we’ve worked with tonight, the staff and the meps. but i want to pick out two people tonight for a special thank you: my two researchers up in the public gallery. they told me that tonight is the first time they’ve had time to come here, because they’re always so busy working. so for james carey and laura o’connor, a special thank you to both of you. thank you. (applause)
madam president, the increasing number of multidimensional and rapidly evolving global challenges underlines that the eu needs to become a more effective global actor. restructuring our external action instruments is one crucial point, but we also need to focus much more on policy and programming coordination with member states. i note the commission’s proposal of a single instrument and trust this will go hand—in—hand with greater parliamentary oversight. my questions to the commission are: firstly, will the commission work with parliament to agree on a criteria triggering a suspension of funding to partner countries in cases of human rights violations? secondly, this report proposes a better alignment of the eu’s future external investments with the paris agreement goals. will the commission commit to our proposed climate and environmental spending targets? thirdly, parliament’s proposal to cap assistance for activities linked to the capacity building of military actors seeks to ensure we focus on economic regeneration as opposed to defence. i trust the commission will respect this with the new instrument.
madam president, in the age of trump and bolsonaro, and with putin’s agents interfering in democratic processes, international cooperation and support for neighbouring countries has never been more important. i’m glad to see that recommendations from the committee on culture and education are included in the final version of the text that we will be voting on. for instance, parliament supports the fact that the new financial instrument can be used for the creative europe and erasmus+ programmes. this will significantly strengthen the cultural dimension of eu foreign affairs through cultural diplomacy and people—to—people contact. this is very important for building understanding and trust in order to foster peace and strengthen democratic life. in fragile democracies and post—conflict countries, it is often arts, sport and cultural activity that create the foundation for rebuilding societies.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i rise for what is most probably my last speech in this place, having watched with amazement the increasing delusion within this house over the past five years. despite your great and obvious inconsistencies and the fundamental issues facing the eu, you continue in the same direction towards ever closer union, paying scant regard to the changing reality around you. take, for example, turkey. earlier this month, you passed a report acknowledging the backsliding of basic rights there, yet legislation keeps the door open for their eu membership and a transfer of taxpayers’ money to president erdoğan’s turkey, at the very same time that you refuse to acknowledge their incompatibility with your own fundamental values. yet you criticise hungary and poland. can’t you see your blatant hypocrisy? how much damage must you do before understanding your failure to best represent your citizens’ concerns?
madam president, pre-accession assistance plays a central role in the eu’s foreign policy with enlargement countries, and we must continue to put all our efforts into supporting progressive reforms in these countries. human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the fight against corruption must remain our absolute priorities. the new funding instrument introduces more flexibility, and this will be particularly key as our complex relationship with turkey evolves. the deteriorating human rights situation in the country has made it necessary for us to adapt our funding policy, focusing on civil society rather than governmental agencies. whilst i am sad about the current direction of the country under president erdoğan’s rule, i am nevertheless convinced that the future of turkey lies in europe. my regular contacts with numerous members of turkish civil society have convinced me that turkish citizens long for human rights and democracy and to be part of the european family. and when it comes to the balkans, where i also spend a lot of time, we must continue to be proactive in our support for the institutions, as well as civil society.
madam president, firstly my congratulations to both the rapporteurs for their excellent work. whilst i welcome the commission’s overall plans to increase investment in eu external action in the new mff round, i’m a little sceptical about further increasing ipa funds. as part of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), i’ve had the opportunity to join missions to pre-accession states. the issue that has struck me whenever i have visited has been the limited absorption capacity for funding in some of these states. therefore, my questions to the commission are, firstly – commissioner hahn, i hope you’re listening – how is dg near, in this case also ipa iii, taking the absorption capacity of accession countries into account? secondly, as we’ve just heard, parliament voted to suspend accession negotiations with turkey. given that turkey is by far the largest ipa beneficiary, how will the suspension of talks affect ipa disbursements? and thirdly, in contrast to other accession countries, public perception of eu in serbia is far from enthusiastic. instead, russian and chinese investments are greatly overestimated. before committing more funding, how do we, first of all, ensure clear visibility for the eu’s engagement in serbia?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i understand the seriousness of the situation in algeria. the protests, thankfully, have so far been peaceful protests with young people taking to the streets because they believe in something different to what the algerian government at present is offering. one of the key comments that we see time and time again from people in algeria is that they desperately want freedom of speech; that they want to be able to express themselves in ways that they’ve not been able to do of late. but the situation is incredibly serious: we’ve got the army chief calling for bouteflika to be declared unfit to govern. the one point that i want to make specifically today, that has perhaps not been raised yet in this debate, is that freedom of speech must also imply freedom of religion. freedom of religion is guaranteed under article 36 of the algerian constitution, which states that freedom of religion and creed is inviolable. i want to mention the persecution of religious minorities in algeria, and specifically christians, because i’ve met algerian pastors on two occasions who have come to the european parliament to express their concerns about how they are being persecuted at present. algeria has moved from number 42 to number 22 on the world watch list of most persecuting countries of christians in just one year. we’ve seen churches having been closed, and particularly the epa – the église protestante d’algérie. we have seen the government using various administrative means to close down churches, and we have seen those who have preached on social media put in prison. we’ve seen those who import religious materials put in prison. we’ve seen those who convert to christianity being persecuted. all i’d ask is that in all of these discussions, in all of these debates, please can we remember that christians and other religious minorities are being persecuted in algeria, as these matters are being discussed in the coming days.
mr president, russian illegal occupation of crimea is jeopardising international peace. we’ve already heard. it is a major flashpoint that could lead to conflict and just as easily escalate into an international one. what particularly concerns me is that, under the russian occupation, the people of crimea have become increasingly isolated and human rights and economic concerns have deteriorated rapidly. whilst this house has repeatedly called for the territorial integrity of ukraine to be restored, russia has blatantly flouted these calls by building bridges and attacking ukrainian ships in the sea of azov. it is not enough for us to merely award the sakharov prize to those who, like oleg sentsov, have been fighting this repression. no, it is important that we instead send a strong message to russia that ignoring international law has consequences, whilst also providing more help to ukraine for their security. my question to the commissioner is this: how do we increase this pressure on russia? do you believe you can get member states to sing from the same hymn sheet and support you in what you said earlier, commissioner hahn?
mr president, five years after the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula to the russian federation, i join my voice with those who condemn this blatant violation of international law. the continuing occupation of the peninsula seriously undermines the pre—eminence of the rule of law in international relations. i have already denounced in this house the appalling consequences this situation has had on cultural heritage in crimea, which continues to be destroyed on the ground with the loss of significant historical sites. meanwhile, human rights defenders, political opponents, artists and minorities continue to be persecuted in russia and in the occupied territories. because the eu has been firm and consistent in refusing to recognise the illegal annexation of crimea, russian agents have been trying to hijack european politics through financing far-right parties and influencing elections and referendums. we must not give way but must continue to stand by international law – including human rights law – in our relations with russia and with every other country.
mr president, eight years ago, hopes were high for a more inclusive and democratic mena region. unfortunately, the overall picture now looks bleak. the main factors that contributed to dissatisfaction and upheaval in 2011 have worsened. income disparity and youth unemployment have increased: in fact, it is the highest globally. instead of tackling these fundamental challenges, the eu – driven by member states – has narrowed its interests to simply security and migration management. this short-sighted approach ignores the brewing anger and frustration in our southern neighbourhood, and it is just a matter of time before it comes back to haunt us. commissioner, i have received emails from my constituents about human rights abuses against migrants in libya, widely reported in our media. what has the eu done to investigate these allegations about eu-funded actors? secondly, how does the eu support mena societies working towards constructing new economic orders, given that the rentier economic system has failed to keep pace with rising demands from a growing population? how are we focused to have access to decision-making, particularly for young people, effective service provision and combating corruption? thirdly, the russian footprint in the region has expanded visibly. how are we responding to these geopolitical ambitions?
mr president, it’s worth staying in the chamber to make an important point, isn’t it? when the arab spring blossomed, european states missed the opportunity to develop an ambitious foreign policy, based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. we let down the young generations who led these movements by prioritising shortsighted economic interests over support for a long—term path towards democracy. we could have been ambitious, but instead we protected our own interests. we asked of our neighbours that they handle migration for us, we closed our borders, we continued selling arms, and we continued to close our eyes to the deteriorating situation of human rights defenders and the appalling record when it comes to women and lgbtq+. as young people in algeria are now protesting and trying to create a peaceful movement, it is time for the eu’s foreign policy to live up to its full potential. it’s time to stand up for human rights in the middle east, north africa and everywhere else.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what a sad place we’re in on brexit. what a tragedy. so many issues we should be working on together utterly distracted by a self-inflicted disaster, entirely because the uk still – even now at this last hour – hasn’t made a decision on what it actually wants. ms may triggered article 50 without a plan, and they still cannot find consensus. we see mps today at westminster finally trying to reach a settled view. good. welcome to the party. in the scottish parliament, we’re debating revoking article 50, because from a scottish perspective – and every single party in scotland, except the conservatives, are united around this view – the best brexit is no brexit. (applause)so, colleagues, please don’t close the doors on us now. there are a lot of us in scotland and elsewhere across the uk working hard to turn this round, to serve our citizens, to remain within this family of nations. but, in what might be my last speech in this place after 15 years serving our european people, we don’t know what’s in the uk’s future. we don’t know what’s in any of our future, and the forces of populism are gathering in all of our nations. we don’t know what’s in the uk’s future, but i do know that scotland is a european nation. we celebrate international solidarity. we celebrate freedom of movement. if the european union didn’t exist we would need to invent something like it, and scotland would want to be part of it. (applause)you, as professionals, must deal with the united kingdom as you find it. you must respect the uk’s constitution, and i respect that. you must deal with the interlocutors you’re dealt. sorry about that, but you must deal with them. but, if we in scotland are removed from our family of nations against our will – against our clearly democratically expressed view – independence will be our only route back. chers collègues, i’m not asking you to solve our domestic discussions. i am asking you to leave a light on so that we can find our way home. (sustained applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would have thought as a former belgian prime minister you would know that it was field marshal haig in 1914 who saved the belgian town of ypres from german domination...(applause)...who then went on in 1918 to lead britain in its greatest ever military feat, defeating imperial germany on the western front. far from mocking haig, as a belgian, he should be a great hero to you. but never mind. maybe that sums up your anti-britishness. sticking with belgium, i thought what happened at the summit last week was a national humiliation, an impasse, because we have in ms may a prime minister who hasn’t got the courage, who hasn’t got the vision, to carry out her many repeated promises: to take us out of the european union this friday, 29 march. it is not happening, and we are witnessing a slow motion betrayal – perhaps the greatest betrayal of any democratic vote in the history of our nation – and the reason, of course, is this withdrawal treaty. and i’ll go back to the first world war: we won the war, but we had the treaty of versailles, and this treaty is the modern—day equivalent. we have a reparations bill of gbp 39 billion we have to pay for nothing in return. we have the annexation of a part of our national territory in the shape of northern ireland. this treaty is a bad piece. it is unacceptable, it is not brexit, and it will not pass. i know that you’re all getting terribly excited about what the house of commons may do over the course of the next week, and we know what they’ll do: they’ll come back with some form of agreement around a customs union and the continued free movement of people. but even if they do that, the one thing that’s inevitable is that we’re headed for an article 50 extension. and i think you should ask yourselves: do you really want that? do you really want brexit to utterly dominate the next couple of years of your business, to the exclusion of your many other ambitions? do you really want the united kingdom to contest the european elections – to send back a very large number of leave meps, just at a time when you’re fighting populism, as you see it, across the continent? do you really want me back in this place? (mixed reactions) well there we are. and all for what? because brexit is going to happen anyway. mr tusk, if you think the british people have changed their minds on brexit, you, sir, are deluded: what we actually now see are opinion poll leads of 15%, and in some cases nearly 20%, in favour of leaving. if we had another referendum, leave would win it by a bigger margin, so why put yourselves through years of agony? i pay great tribute to mr juncker, to mr barnier, and to the commission. you have prepared your no-deal scenario. it is highly professional. it shows that actually leaving with no deal is not going to cause huge disruption – it even suggests that with no deal there’s no need for a visible border in ireland. so i would say to all of you, and to the national leaders: reject the british extension beyond 12 april, get britain out, and then we can all just get on with the rest of our lives. (applause)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, never before in the long and eventful history of england and the british isles have we been brought to such a national and international humiliation. never before have the british been governed by such a pack of traitors, quislings and collaborators. theresa may has snatched defeat from the jaws of victory in a way unparalleled in the history of the world. her so-called deal is an unconditional surrender treaty, except that we have not been defeated by a foreign power. instead, those entrusted with safeguarding our freedoms and liberties have surrendered them to a foreign power – the european union. but the final surrender is not yet complete. ms may still has some grovelling left to do. if britain does not leave the european union on 29 march, then it will mark the official end of democracy in the united kingdom. accept that no people that want to be free can be enslaved forever. no eu withdrawal agreement, no eu future relationship agreement, no treaty can bind a people that do not want to be bound. in britain, any act of parliament may be repealed and set aside; no parliament may bind a future parliament. the english constitution will prove to be stronger and more durable than any eu treaty or agreement. we can still leave on 29 march by the grace of god, but if we do not, then the uk independence party will lead the struggle to set britain free from the european union in the years to come, and if necessary, we’ll start that in the next european elections in may.
mr president, this friday, 29 march should have been an historic day of significance for the united kingdom: a day when, after 40 years of membership of the european institutions, the united kingdom would again be an independent nation – a nation working side—by—side with europe but free from the federalist agenda of brussels, and free to grow our own economy and control our own laws and destiny. after two years of negotiation, our prime minister has concluded a draft withdrawal agreement that has twice suffered historic defeats in the house of commons – a draft withdrawal agreement that would see northern ireland leaving on different terms to the rest of the united kingdom under the backstop; an agreement from which the attorney general advises that there is no legal right of withdrawal. the democratic unionist party (dup) wants to leave the european union in an orderly fashion, but this deal will endanger the constitutional and economic integrity of the united kingdom. it is not a price that we, as unionists, are willing to pay. finally, some advice to mr tusk and mr bullmann: 17.4 million british voters signalled their desire to leave the european union. i think this house owes them some respect and should acknowledge their democratic choice, instead of focusing on everyone else. to mr verhofstadt: the british parliament has already voted for a unilateral agreement around citizens’ rights. it’s time we caught up in these institutions. and to ms zimmer: the belfast agreement has a principle of consent. it is only with the consent of the people of northern ireland that there will be any moves towards a change in the constitutional status of northern ireland. you would do well to remember that. (applause)
madam president, i said at the beginning of this that it would go down to the wire and beyond. i have not been disappointed. i also said at the very beginning that the people that i represent would never accept a border in the irish sea, and that still stands, mr barnier – i hope you’re listening to that. and i also have to say that the backstop would unravel the fabric of the belfast agreement, an international agreement which many in this place champion, but they wilfully forget the principle of consent within that agreement. there’s a need to listen to everyone in northern ireland, not just those who shout the loudest. there’s a very quiet majority of people in northern ireland who also want a good way forward for northern ireland, for the united kingdom, and indeed for the european union. i think we’ve got to move away from positions of the past and find a better future to which we can all work within. i am still concerned, madam president, that we are still in danger of crashing out. nobody’s fault – not mr tusk’s fault, not mr barnier’s fault, not anybody’s fault – but there’s a danger of a crashing—out, and i hope mr tusk will ensure that that does not happen. i listened to him with interest, and i say to him: he needs a firm hand. can i indulge once more, madam president, for this could well be – like my colleagues from scotland – my last speech after 30 years in this parliament. it’s been quite a long time; i’ve enjoyed it and all the people i have worked with through that time. i sincerely hope that i have represented the people that i represent in northern ireland with distinction. (applause)
madam president, at the weekend the prime minister again attempted to stitch up a vote for her brexit deal. at her ‘grace and favour’ chequers home she negotiated with a dozen white men who represent a minority of a minority of her own party. we can guess what she said to them: the massive london march for a people’s vote and the record-breaking petition to revoke article 50 show that the mood of the country has swung strongly against brexit, so vote for her deal now or brexit might be lost and they might also have to fight european elections. this is a terrifying prospect for the tories as, just like a second referendum, it would provide a democratic opportunity for people to express their views and show their rejection of the brexit project. the tories are running scared of the will of the people, but we will not be silenced. across our country the resistance to brexit is growing. we look to parliament to send the decision back to us, confident in the knowledge that we have the strongest pro—european movement on our continent and that the country will vote convincingly to stay in the eu. (applause)
madam president, irish republicans take no pleasure in stating ‘we told you so’. before the referendum was even called we were in london telling the british government the damage that brexit would do to our island. we were right. we campaigned for the north to remain in the eu, not out of the total love of this place or some of its policies, but because we knew the damage that brexit would inflict on our island. we were right. more importantly, the majority of the people of the north of ireland agreed with us. at the start of the negotiation process, we warned all involved of british negotiation tactics, and i’ll let you all judge how right we were. their ignorance and arrogance, fuelled by the democratic unionist party, has brought us to the abyss on which we currently stand. brexit has been described as a never—ending series of question marks, yet one question provides us with a very simple answer, for ireland and possibly for the eu, from this utter mess and total shambles. the good friday agreement, endorsed by many here, contains the solution, president tusk, so build on the council statement of april 2019, have the necessary conversations, answer the big question, de-dramatize the issue once and for all. if we remove the border, we remove the problem, so plan for irish unity, based on the principle of consent. (applause)
madam president, while some compared ms may’s dash to the european council last week with chamberlain’s munich mission, i think it’s more like ‘rage in our era’ than ‘peace in our times’. however, the real depth of public anger at the political establishment’s brexit betrayal continues to go unnoticed, and as the eu elite continues to try and ride roughshod over the will of the european people, the stirrings of serious unrest are becoming manifest in equal measure. the fact is, the people of europe have had enough of lies being used as the building blocks for an eu superstate, while the governments of europe are deaf to their concerns. if you’re complacent enough to think britain’s vote to leave the european union was just a protest vote cast by the fickle british, then you’re kidding yourselves. brexit was the starting gun for a new european political era, and as paris burns, the dutch people scream for change at the polls and this parliament braces for a eurosceptic invasion, the superstate dream is shattered. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, i’m afraid i can’t follow that sonnet, but would say that i find it utterly astonishing that today not a single member of the governing party in the uk is down to speak, because they are terrified of what their government is doing and because it is now, of course, in hock to the kind of people that have now vacated the chamber – save for one, mr farage – who have promised the earth consistently, who have said that brexit means one thing and then it has turned out to be quite another – a bit like the march actually – promising people one thing, charging them the earth for it, and then disappearing, presumably in a private jet, to come here to strasbourg to lecture us on what should be happening. you will never, ever, take responsibility, mr farage, for the mess that you have landed your country in. you are responsible for the national humiliation we see today. no one else. it’s high time that you and every other brexiteer took responsibility for the lies and the misleading campaign that you have consistently led in our country to bring it to its knees. i say to you, mr tusk, thank you for your message of solidarity. it is very well heard and very well received. there is a mass pro—european movement in britain and we are not going anywhere. we want to defeat these people. we are on the right side of history and we are proud to have you with us. i have one small point of order, madam president. earlier today, mr batten called people ‘traitors’ and ‘quislings’. that kind of language is completely unacceptable in this chamber – or in any chamber for that matter – and he should apologise.
madam president, on behalf of a million people on the streets in london, on behalf of six million people who have signed the petition and on behalf of 63% of the british population who did not vote for brexit, i want to say thank you to president tusk. i want to say thank you to this house for the support you’re showing and i want to reassure you that nigel farage does not speak on behalf of that 63% of the population. (applause) may i add, as a comment, to the european people that, for over 25 years now, no british prime minister ever explained to the british people what europe did, what the benefits are and why it matters. they never defended against the untruths which were spoken and they never took ownership of the decisions that they took in council. because of that, the british press ran a 20—year campaign based on populist mistruths, lies and deceit. the consequence of that we see today: britain as a sad nation divided like never before and a house of commons in crisis. so let brexit stand as a cautionary tale to the people of europe. to the people of europe i say this: you are the generation who have lived through the longest period of peace and the greatest level of prosperity ever. never take it for granted. value it. fight for it. defend it every day. (prolonged applause)
in writing. – this debate takes place amidst continuing chaos at westminster, where the uk government has lost control of its relentless pursuit of exiting the eu – against the wishes of the people of scotland. the snp has made the case – based on the clear opinion of 62% of scottish voters representing each and every council area in the country – to remain a member of the european union. yet westminster has treated the views of scotland with contempt. the scottish government has continuously argued that the aggressive hard brexit or bad deal position favoured by the uk government has been wrong—headed, but the uk’s devolved administrations have been ignored throughout. westminster today is debating various alternatives to theresa may’s reckless strategy. may is in office but not in power. snp mps will support an amendment that will see a series of indicative votes on brexit next steps, including the option to revoke the article 50 application. the crisis highlights what the westminster government really thinks about scotland. they have continually ignored strong scottish opinion on remaining an eu member, and put the narrow interests of the tory party first. scotland deserves better and the argument for scottish independence gets stronger every day.
madam president, i think it’s time to revisit our charter of fundamental rights that says that every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. we know that, in the case of long—distance, cross-border professional drivers, those conditions are overwhelmingly unhealthy, unsafe and undignified, with access to many of their social rights being deprived by shady employment and letterbox companies. many drivers are expected to rest in their cabs, with no access to basic hygiene facilities, such as toilets and showers. but this isn’t just a question of rights; it’s a question road safety. when you look at the statistics, you’ll find the driver fatigue is a significant contributor to accidents in the majority of cases. so with that in mind, our party is wanting to see, as an absolute minimum, that we retain a two-week reference period that would not encourage an increase in nomadic driving. an extended weekly rest should be in a hotel. i’d like to add that this appalling mishmash of thousands, hundreds of amendments, is no way to discharge our responsibility, as some colleagues have said. effectively we just end up with a stitch—up.
mr president, it’s always about the money, isn’t it? the european union has become a very good mechanism for taking wealth from the general population and redistributing it to people who are lucky enough – directly or indirectly – to be part of the system. to be fair, it isn’t unique in that regard; every system of government has that aspect to it. but what is unique is the way in which, by extending the difference between the people contributing and the people spending, it maximises the inefficiency that comes from a remote government. the fundamental role of any legislature is to hold the executive to account, but that dynamic doesn’t apply in this assembly, because for the sake of greater european integration this parliament ends up always lining up with the commission against the taxpayer in the cause of greater and greater integration. that has been the problem from the beginning.
mr president, the gbp 500 million bill because the european medicines agency (ema) could not get out of the 25—year lease on a building in canary wharf is deeply regrettable. what a waste. and, to my mind, what a waste to lose highly skilled jobs and research capacity from britain. the ema is a jewel in the crown, precisely because it attracts businesses and experts. over the past two decades, it has been invaluable, simplifying and streamlining medicines regulation, allowing companies to get a medicine authorised in every eu country in one go. alas for britain, no more. a medicines manufacturer in my constituency has already set up a new parallel testing facility within the eu to enable it to sell into european union countries in the future. more cost, meaning less investment in research and development, and for britain more delays in getting medicines and a rising bill for medicines, and so less money for our nhs – the opposite of what people thought that they were voting for.
mr president, on behalf of the ecr i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs and my fellow shadows for the positive and productive way in which we have worked together to agree on a compromise text on this very wide-ranging and challenging file. i very much welcome the consolidated instrument now as proposed by the commission and believe that it will contribute to allowing the eu to act in a more effective, cohesive and cost-efficient manner in the areas concerned. at a time when political transition continues to destabilise the south as russia seeks to undermine those countries in the eastern partnership and as the enlargement agenda faces challenges in moving forward, the neighbourhood has never been so important as it is today to the european union. whilst i personally welcome the fully-consolidated instrument, i note that there are significant misgivings in this chamber, including within my own group, concerning certain aspects, and these discussions will now need to continue into the next parliament. given the very strict geographic ring-fencing included within the instrument, however, i do not believe the consolidation will see funds diverted to one part of the neighbourhood to the detriment of others. as to the concerns that some had regarding the bringing together of development funds with more explicit foreign-policy tools, the requirement for 95% of funding to meet oecd official development aid benchmarks should reassure all of us. this is an increase on the 92% as proposed originally by the commission. i also welcome the development of efsd into the much more ambitious efsd+ and a renewed external action guarantee. these proposals will see changes to the current relationship between the commission and the european investment bank, but i am reassured by the commitment to a minimum level of allocation to the eib, as is provided for in amendment 52. ultimately, as an outgoing british mep due to brexit, i’m sorry that i will not be here to be part of the ultimate negotiations for this instrument in the next parliament. most of all, i’m sad that the uk will not be able to participate in something that is yet another reminder of the way that europe’s voice and economy of scale is magnified when we are all working together.
blue-card question. – thank you, sir, for the good-spirited acceptance of the question. my question is this: we all agree that we need to make changes and improve the environment, and this is a particularly important issue. however, manufacturing and production always need time to change. you stressed several times in your remarks: urgency, urgency, urgency. would you not accept that the speed of the motion that we have before us will actually lead to job losses? and, if it does lead to job losses, how many are acceptable? 500? 1 000? 10 000? where does it stop? where do we take into account the needs of manufacturers, as opposed to the prerogative for change?
mr president, i believe the single-use plastics directive is unfairly treating expanded polystyrene packaging, known as eps, and used for takeaway food and drinks. by banning it all of the other items on the list of banned items included in annex, part b, of the proposal for a directive – plastic straws, cutlery, stirrers, cotton buds, etc. – are specific product items and not a whole category of products made from a particular material. eps is the only specific material that has been singled out on the banned list, yet the statistics upon which this commission based its proposal do not show that eps food service packaging is a significant problem on eu beaches. all types of food and beverage service packaging and other items combined, including eps products, account for just 4%-6% of beach litter. a ban on eps food and drinks containers was included in a last-minute amendment announced just before the plenary vote. that set up the european parliament’s negotiating mandate ahead of the informal trilogue. there was no opportunity to counter the misinformation circulated at the time. it was incorrectly stated as justification for banning eps packs that 31% of beach litter is polystyrene. this is entirely untrue. in fact the commission’s figures show that 31% of beach plastics is a make-up of mixed plastic fragments of varying sizes, including some expanded polystyrene. some of the eps pieces in this fraction derive from sources other than packaging e.g. fish boxes and construction products. therefore, banning these products is both unjustified and disproportionate. the benefit to the environment will be virtually nil. this measure, rushed through without adequate research, will result in companies being put out of business and hundreds of people losing their jobs. this is not speculation. this is fact. in my own constituency 250 jobs will be lost by 2021 if this goes unchallenged. extrapolate that across the eu – and there are 29 businesses directly affected by this – and thousands of european citizens will lose their livelihood. the eps ban should, and will, be challenged. the correct source of action is to remove eps from the banned list. i would just like to display to you the flag of the area where the jobs will be lost. please take notice. this is the black country. two hundred people will lose their jobs because of this.
mr president, i am concerned that the eu is fraudulently harassing british innovation in degradable plastics. parliament has not yet been made aware that, if we accept the reference to oxo-biodegradable plastics in article 5, we would be evading the european union’s own rules for banning substances. please refer to articles 68 to 73 of the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach) legislation. surely you won’t ignore your own legislation. the commission has acted under article 69, requesting the european chemicals agency (echa) to study oxo-degradable plastics, because the commission thought that they created microplastics. echa has not yet completed its study, but did advise – after ten months of work last october – that they were not convinced that microplastics were formed. if, and only if, echa were to recommend a restriction, this would need to be considered by two committees, according to articles 70 and 71 of reach, and put out to public consultation before any restriction could be implemented. none of this has been done. you’re breaking your own rules. therefore, the reference to oxo-degradable plastic must be removed from article 5 before the directive is published in the official journal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i absolutely deny it, because you’re confusing oxo-degradable with oxo-biodegradable, and the system that symphony uses actually destroys the plastic. it is no longer plastic by the time their system is finished. i have proved that in my own home. they gave me a blue card, effectively. i put it in a box and five years later, there was nothing there.
madam president, the overall quantity of waste is increasing rapidly on a worldwide scale. here in the eu, around 3.5 tonnes per capita of waste is produced annually, including more than 400 kilograms per person, per year, of domestic waste. all the projections available today show that this increase at worldwide level will continue at least until 2030, and in europe no real decoupling between waste and economic growth is expected before 2020. single-use plastic items represent about half of all marine litter items found on european beaches. we come from 28 countries, here in the european parliament, but we share one home, one planet earth. young people know this. they’ve had enough, and they are demanding that we change. i want to ask all of you to support their climate strikes, their friday’s for future, because if we don’t listen to them, then they will not elect us in the future.
blue-card question. – would my colleague agree that, where cadmium is naturally found incorporated in tiny quantities into rock phosphate, it is safe, but if extracted to satisfy eu legislation, it immediately becomes a highly concentrated toxic hazard with no easy disposal solution?
rapporteur. – mr president, i’ll be very brief. the shadows and myself, and the co-rapporteur, have brought this file back today for a final vote because the interinstitutional negotiations envisaged by this house nearly a year ago have not even begun. it is of great concern that the council have decided not to prioritise this technical file, which is essential for the future financial stability of the eu financial market infrastructure. this regulation was designed to address the risk of concentration in eu central counterparties and put in place the safeguards needed to deal with the most extreme scenarios in ensuring the recovery and/or the resolution of central counterparties. the financial crisis led to the use of financial derivatives being better regulated, and this is the final piece in that post-trade regulatory framework. i urge the council and commission to ensure that this crucial piece of legislation has top priority in the next mandate to better protect eu investors and the financial system as a whole. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, both past and present, for their work on this file, especially jakob von weizsäcker, who has now left, and their cooperation over the past decade on all the markets files i’ve worked on. many thanks to all of you. (applause)
mr president, it is high time that the eu, and in particular its member states, stand by the commitment to allow kosovan citizens to travel without a visa to the european union. kosovo is a young country that has made significant efforts, after the most appalling ethnic violence, to get in line with the requirements of the european union to obtain visa liberalisation. may i say that it was not a level playing field with ukrainians gaining liberalisation quickly because it suited us for political purposes. i don’t begrudge that, but i think it is unfair for the kosovans. through regular contacts with numerous members of kosovan civil society, particularly with women and youth and with entrepreneurs, i’ve seen that citizens aspire to be part of the european project. by blocking the visa liberalisation process, the council is sending the wrong message. many young kosovans are disappointed and they feel let down by the eu. hope of ever being a part of this european peace project is fading for them and we need them to be part of our peace project. where will they turn? well, i abhor some of the language that i have heard from some members in this house this evening. as a british mep, i have kosovan constituents living in manchester, and there is a peace park in kosovo that is called the manchester peace park. these kosovans are war refugees and they contribute to our society. when you slander them, you slander all kosovans. shame on you. (the speaker declined to answer a blue-card question from dobromir sośnierz)mr president, i refuse to debate with misogynists and racists in this house, so i will refuse the question from this gentleman.
madam president thank you and thank you to vladimír maňka for his work as rapporteur on this file, but also vladimír for being a brilliant colleague and great neighbour in the committee on budgets for me for the last two years. one of the issues i wanted to raise in this report is paragraph 31, which looks at the issue of accredited parliamentary assistants who are just a few more months or days, a few days in fact, short of ten years’ service because of the way the electoral cycles of this parliament have worked. i hope that can be addressed and i hope they will have their pension rights addressed in future. trainees should not work for nothing, and i’m glad we have started to address that and also everyone should be able to work free from sexual harassment, and i’m glad we’re making progress on that also. we are told by the europhobes that this parliament is an expensive place but it compares well to other similar parliaments, such as the us house of representatives. this is a big continent of 508 million people in the european union and democracy has a value. and if that value is not worth eur 4 per citizen per year then we really are in trouble, and we need to defend that. of course we could make other progress. we could scrap the second seat and if mr macron is serious about reform he can help us, because he’s the only real person who can help us address that. we have to, as a parliament, have priorities and i believe that one thing is absolutely key and that is that a multilingual parliament continues. i think the priority of a parliament should be the ability of members to address everyone in this union, which is why i’m afraid i am opposed to the notion of removing translation from any element of this parliament. i hope that that will be properly addressed because when we have the cart before the horse, looking at finances rather than the actual operation of parliament, then we risk running into trouble. thank you for tolerating that last little bit.
madam president, this debate should be absolutely none of my beeswax because of brexit, but sadly it is. it is likely, one way or the other, that the uk will end up contributing to a budget for the european parliament alone of over eur 2 billion. it’s great to see paragraph 25 calling for the end of the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg, but, like the film ‘groundhog day’, this parliament votes to end the travelling circus in different reports from different committees, month in, month out, year in, year out. time and time again, it doesn’t get the change enacted because this place doesn’t actually have the power to decide where it sits. that’s the difference between this place and, say, the house of representatives, which was mentioned earlier in this debate. at least this report does question the latest eu expansionism. it questions suggestions for bigger offices in indonesia, ethiopia and new york, which, last time i consulted a map, weren’t in europe. but what i can’t support in this report is millions more being spent on propaganda by setting up europe experience centres and mobile installations across europe and hiring an army of 50 new press officers and media managers. i can’t support even more money being spent refurbishing mep’s offices, which, last time i checked, were perfectly serviceable. then we come to brexit, and this report contemplates various options. why wouldn’t it? even as i’m speaking here, politicians in westminster are still unable to decide whether or not they’re going to implement the referendum result. british meps were elected on a brexit mandate in 2014, the general election in 2015 mandated a referendum, and the 2016 referendum mandated leave. then 85% of votes at the general election in 2017 went to parties pledging leave. i’m going to blame the european union for a lot of things, but i’ll tell you what, i’m not going to blame the european union for politicians in westminster ignoring the mandates and being unable to decide what to do. that much is certainly their fault, not yours. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – it’s difficult to respond to a question that doesn’t come with a question mark. certainly i agree that there is chaos in westminster at the moment, we expect our politicians in westminster to actually take some decisions and to take a lead on the brexit that people voted for. as far as the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg is concerned, i suppose my point is simply to say that the system is broken when a parliament does not even have the basic democratic power to decide where it meets.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, firstly, can i add my thanks to our rapporteur, mr dantin, for his coordination and endeavours on this file, and also add my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs from the fellow political groups as well. i would also want to thank our staff and our assistants as well who have worked for many, many months across the complex range of issues covered in this legislation. many different organisations and stakeholders have made contact with us throughout our work on this, and i would like to thank them for their engagement and interest. the range of stakeholders interested in these issues again reflects the breadth and complexity of issues in the file. i recognise specifically those organisations concerned with the right to water, who rightly campaigned and continue to pressure us to secure that right in a meaningful way. i’m pleased that the text before us now is stronger in that regard than it could have been and that wording proposed by my group last year was supported on that basis. it is regrettable, as has been said, that the council has taken so long to reach a position on this, meaning that we have not been able to enter into trilogue discussions. that will now happen in the next mandate, and when it does i hope that that parliament, whatever its political composition, will reflect that commitment that this parliament has made on a right to water. could this parliament have gone further on that? yes, we could have done so, but i think we need to see what has been achieved through this report as important work in progress and an important step forward. it would not be acceptable for the council, or indeed the new parliament, to water that down. this file is concerned with science, with technology and all those practical measures to ensure that our drinking water is safe and of high quality, but it also addresses, at its heart, a fundamental question of equality and social justice. it cannot be right that today, in 2019, there are people in the european union who do not have access to clean, safe, affordable drinking water. this goes to the very heart of this parliament’s commitment to upholding fundamental human rights, and that has been the approach of the s&d group through our work on this file. colleagues, this might well be the final piece of legislation that i work on in this parliament. if it is indeed the last piece of legislation i’m able to work on in this place, i’m pleased that it is this legislation – a directive which will affect every citizen in the european union every single day. none of us should take it for granted, when we turn on our taps, that that drinking water is clean and safe. this is not just about pipes and taps; this is about equality and social justice. this parliament should continue to push for a meaningful right to water for all. there is more to do on that, but this report represents an important step forward in that regard. when people, as they will in the coming weeks, months and indeed years, say: what does the eu do, what is the eu for? this is what the eu does. it ensures that, whether you are in london, or berlin, or paris, or strasbourg, or brussels, when you turn your tap on there is a consistency in the safety and the quality of the drinking water we all enjoy.
mr president, well the eu is, as ever, focused on control. what better mechanism, and latest example, but the one we have before us this evening? along with other colleagues who have already spoken, i’m going to argue that this approach is both misguided and misdirected. even worse, it is actually cost inefficient. the projected cost of this legislation to the european union taxpayer is projected to be eur 460 million. compare that to the amount spent by the united states of america, with a similar population, on protecting the internal security of its citizens. this, everybody, is a mere drop in the ocean, and if the european union is serious, then a serious, detailed and transparent budget must be proposed. some of you have already highlighted another concern of mine, which is the quality of the data. establishing a european search portal to centralise biographical and biometric data is wholly dependent on the quality of the information submitted. we have numerous instances of crime perpetrators destroying their identification, removing all or any traceability, and thus any accountability for their actions. false european union passports, we know, are on sale on the black market and they exist in various forms on a very large scale. as for data ownership, has anyone in the commission – or even at council level – really considered how 500 million european union citizens feel about their personal data being collated, managed and accessed in this manner? i am hopeful that the european union does not envisage a police state, but the question has to be posed, does it? finally, i will remind you that the european union’s sacrosanct pillar of human rights is under siege here. this proposed legislation delivers nothing more than eu control where sovereign nation would suffice.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, i welcome the move by the commission to facilitate the availability of culture across member states. it is important that, as online services expand, the barriers to broadcasting are reduced, whilst maintaining the contractual rights of producers and broadcasters over their work. it is important for the health of the cultural sector that they maintain reasonable levels of control over the material they produce. this legislation does mark some improvements for consumers, and will increase the availability of certain programmes across europe. this is positive for both producers and citizens engaging with european culture. information and current affairs will in particular become more accessible. this will allow citizens to access quality news and media across the continent, which i believe will enhance our media sector. it can only be a good thing that we support more trusted information being provided on a european level, and i hope this has the capacity to develop a shared european perspective on current affairs. fully financed works by online broadcasters will also be included in this directive. this is also a positive move for consumers online and should increase accessibility for all. i hope that this legislation will enable progressive forces in europe to push for improved availability of culture across borders, whilst maintaining a balance with the preservation of contractual freedoms. culture plays a vital role in forming strong relationships across the continent and breaking down barriers between people. the broadcasts that we share form part of a common experience. we must facilitate a healthy broadcasting sector that can reach out to citizens everywhere. as with any copyright legislation, the authors and producers must not be forgotten. those who work to create content must not be vulnerable to exploitation and must receive equitable remuneration for their work. authors, content creators, writers and other rights holders need adequate protection in the law to ensure they receive just reward for their work. it can never be right for broadcasters to profit disproportionately from the work of others. the protection of creators’ income relates directly to the health of the sector. those who author information or cultural work must have their incomes protected. they must be able to live from their work, otherwise we risk damaging the diversity of the sector. finally, i’d like to look to the future. the commission, i believe, will continue to reduce the barriers to broadcasting across europe, and this will contribute to improving the programmes and information that are available. however, we cannot facilitate improved broadcasting without offering support to independent and emerging producers of culture. we must not only look to protect, but also to enhance the diversity of broadcasting and culture across europe. we must also be careful not to allow broadcasting in europe to be dominated by a small number of organisations from certain regions. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i’d like to remind members, and also the commissioner, that the eu is first and foremost a peace project. i’d also like to recall the brussels pledge to peace, which resulted from a conference called ‘peace and prosperity, founding values of the european union’, held on 28 november 2011 here in the european parliament. this declaration of intent was meant to encourage projects and actions aimed at promoting peace in its most universal meaning, inspired by the universal ideals of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity enshrined in the preamble of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and also confirmed by the lisbon treaty in 2009. the nobel prize for peace awarded to the european union seals and underlines the importance of actions like the pledge, and also this current proposal for a peace facility. the pledge to peace was intended to create the necessary conditions to initiate a broad set of actions aimed at building a world of peace and prosperity. i suggest that all new meps in the next legislature sign the pledge and renew this action.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, i’m pleased to say that the committee on budgets recognised the creative europe programme as an important investment budget, acknowledged the importance of the creative industries, and substantially increased the mmf envelope over the commission’s original proposal. i hope – and i believe – that this creates room in creative europe to support projects in regional languages and dialects, because they are an inherent part of europe’s cultural diversity. catalan or cornish, breton, basque or sámi: identities that are as important to many citizens as their legal nation-state identities. language and dialect is central to folk traditions, and suppression is always a mistake. they belong in creative europe. in 1982, i came to a south-east england constituency as an economic migrant from thatcherite unemployment, but i remain proud of my northumbrian heritage. so perhaps if you’ll indulge me in what may be my last speech in this chamber, i will conclude with a few words of geordie: wen the tarkins ower, if the reivers an candymen o brexit have hoyed us oot and the brits are nee mair, divvint bother yersels ower much, cos wor bairns’ll put it t reets and tek us yem t’europe afor lang. (in standard english: when the talking’s over, if the bandits and henchmen of brexit have taken us out and the brits are no longer there, don’t worry too much, as the next generation will put things right and bring us home to europe before long.)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, arts and culture are the heart and soul of europe and creative europe is the key mechanism that enables artists and audiences from across europe and beyond to engage in creative exploration of what it means to live in europe today. the programme is one of the eu’s finest projects and promotes excellent synergies across other sectors – for example steam, which recognises science, technology, art, engineering and maths. i am personally proud to have pushed for this acknowledgment over the course of my mandate. the new programme ensures that the sector will reach its economic potential contributing to sustainable growth, jobs and social cohesion. it will enable europe’s culture and media sectors to access new international opportunities, markets and audiences and that’s why it’s essential, if the tragedy of brexit is to happen, that the uk remains part of such a project. i will be spending this weekend in the city of hull with artists and media professionals from all across europe who absolutely defy that brexit will separate us. we will remain european.
madam president, there’s an old saying that he who pays the piper calls the tune, and it certainly seems to apply to the creative sector where the european union is concerned. more than a billion euros has been spent on the current creative europe programme, and in return i must note the creative sector overwhelmingly backed eu membership during the uk referendum. we certainly had our artists for brexit who did not, but those at the commanding heights of our cultural institutions were generally in favour of staying in. fortunately, the great british public had other ideas and did not follow the direction of those we refer to somewhat sarcastically as the great and the good. now there’s no doubt that the creative sector is an area in which europe has a competitive advantage. were you to ask people the world over which continent has the richest cultural heritage, it is difficult to imagine europe not coming top. we’ve had most of the greatest painters, classical composers, writers and architects the world has ever seen. it’s also true that down the ages many writers, artists and musicians have depended on wealthy patrons to further their careers. the royal court of the habsburg empire was a noted sponsor of art and music, for instance, so it’s perhaps no surprise to find the court of the juncker empire following suit. the danger is, though, that yes, indeed he who pays the piper calls the tune. the various strands of creative europe naturally place a high value on funding activities that elevate the european collective identity above national identities. in this, the attention, i think, is to promote the creation of a european demos which trumps national affinities, and such a demos is certainly required to make sense of the eu’s mania for ever-closer union, but there’s little sign of its emergence. the danger is that subsidised culture becomes dull culture, lured towards safe and politically correct choices that won’t rock the boat with the sponsor. in the case of the habsburgs, it was the uninspiring salieri who retained the lucrative position of court composer, and not the genius mozart. i’m sure in the years ahead the next creative europe programme will help some talented creatives with their careers. whether it will prove to be value for money is doubtful and whether it will foster the miraculous birth of the long-awaited european demos, more doubtful still.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am delighted to have played a role in this update of the excellent erasmus+ programme 2021-2027. i congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for his positive and constructive approach. many thousands of students and young people in wales, like elsewhere, have benefited from the opportunities that erasmus offered. our universities in particular have had the pleasure of hosting young people from across the european union. the commission said we have to have ambition to empower young people. i believe we’ve achieved that here. from the start, one of the priorities of my group, the greens/efa group, was to support the tripling of the budget to meet the target of tripling the number of people taking part, because that is ambition. i believe the new programme will be simpler, more open to all individuals from all education sectors and phases, and will help tackle many of the problems we face. and finally, if we leave the eu, the loss of erasmus to wales would be a huge blow. that is why i am pleased that this report allows for the continued participation of third countries. you can be sure that given the opportunity, wales will still be an active and enthusiastic partner, and that’s the positive message that i would like to leave with you. diolch yn fawr iawn. (google translate)
mr president, the erasmus programme is already responsible for millions of friendships, love affairs and even babies, as it has provided the means for young people to spread their wings and look beyond borders to learn more about themselves and others through immersion in formal and informal education with peers from across europe. we all know about the erasmus opportunities for students to study in universities outside their member states, but few politicians seem to know about the extraordinary youth programmes that transform the lives of disadvantaged youth. for example, the people with learning difficulties from headway arts in blyth, northumberland, who’ve been exchanging ideas and best practices with european partners, growing in confidence as a result and achieving dignity when their own government threw them on the scrapheap. another example are the autistic students from inscape school in stockport who returned from their erasmus project to set up social enterprises, including a café. i met these young people and all are dismayed at the inward-looking direction of the uk government who would deny them a european future. young people will not forgive those who enable brexit.
mr president, it is long overdue that environmental concerns take precedence over purely business—driven interests. governments can no longer gamble with the future generation’s survival. prosperity in the 21st century must go hand in hand with sustainability. i therefore urge this parliament to take an ambitious stance for a genuine alignment between investment, sustainability and social impact. we must collectively operate structural changes regarding the legal standards that our businesses must uphold. we cannot satisfy ourselves with merely cosmetic measures. we must, first and foremost, provide support to the many initiatives aimed at alternative and sustainable business models, such as cooperatives. we must support, politically and financially, initiatives aimed at linking economy with human rights, workers’ rights, social justice, equity and sustainability, because that provides the way forward to achieving the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs). in that respect, i want to applaud the work of the civil society network, sdg watch, who are scrutinising our work and will call out any backpedalling.
madam president, i would like to use what may be my last ever intervention to thank you for the way in which you have briskly and efficiently chaired these votes over the years. it seems apt that my last intervention, like so many of the others, is about a plan to shovel around more taxpayers’ money in europe. almost nobody ever stands back and asks whether these cohesion and regional grants have any impact. if they did, then the major recipient regions would now be very wealthy, and we would have seen the spectacle of greek taxpayers being asked to bail out germany. the reason that they do not work is, first of all, because the money goes primarily to buy the loyalty of ngos, local government associations and the like, in order to bind them into the european project. secondly, because it creates perverse incentives – people find it easier to arrange their affairs to qualify for a pot of money, than to make things, sell things or create wealth. i’m not going to be here for much longer, so you do not need to listen to my advice for much longer, but if the eu carries on in this racket of just shuffling around taxpayers’ money, it will continue to dwindle.
madam president, in the united kingdom, 2.4 billion litres of water every single day go to waste through leaks from the network – 432 million litres in my own region of the east midlands. i am sure we would all agree that that is an unacceptable waste, bad for the environment and bad for people who are paying their water bills and paying for that wastage and leakage in ever—higher water bills. when this report is considered in interinstitutional negotiations in the next mandate, i call on the commission, the council and parliament to ensure that the mandatory targets for the reduction of leakage remain part of this report. it is what we agreed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi); it is what we agreed in this parliament in october. we need the water industry to do far more to reduce that leakage so consumers get a fairer deal, and so that we reduce water wastage, which is bad for the environment, as well.
madam president, i didn’t do erasmus when i was at university, and i wish i had. i really, really want erasmus opportunities to be available to young people from all backgrounds in the uk into the future. and how appalling is it: here we are, almost three years on from the referendum, and the uk government has failed – failed to negotiate, failed to give any clarity or certainty that the uk will continue to be part of the erasmus programme in the future. young people that i listen to across the east midlands region are furious about how their futures are being compromised, how their rights and opportunities are being short-changed by this government’s failure of these past two years or so. if we get to the point of the question of brexit being put back to the people, it is therefore fair and appropriate and right that those young people, including 16 and 17 year olds, get to have their say.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the efdd would like to request that the stanishev report on brexit visas is debated as the first item on the agenda tomorrow. we believe the decision to remove claude moraes, a british mep, from this report for refusing to accept that gibraltar is a colony of the uk is not only ludicrous, but is entirely unjustifiable. to reiterate, gibraltar is designated a british overseas territory under british constitutional law, and the term ‘crown colony’ is obsolete. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) should be ashamed that a majority of their members today supported the removal of the british mep, thus allowing the spanish government to hijack a report that had no mandate from parliament to question the sovereignty of gibraltar. in two referenda – one in 1967 and another in 2002 – 99% of the people of gibraltar voted to remain british. i therefore ask this house to support a full debate on this report to consider removing references to gibraltar as a colony of the british crown, and misleading statements that suggest there is a controversy between spain and the uk concerning the sovereignty over gibraltar.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i’ll begin with a message to my friends and my colleagues in westminster. i too am a conservative, and we were not elected for our charm and our intellect. we are elected because we have the word ‘conservative’ stamped next to our name. and to those remainers, who have done everything to overturn the result and have now left our party, i say: ‘bye bye’. power brings responsibility, and we can’t always have everything we want. conscience and principles are a luxury we can’t always afford and are normally found on the benches opposite. tough times demand tough choices, and that takes real courage. regrettably, mr corbyn has been the problem and not the solution. he despises us and will do anything to gain power. he won’t argue with me on that. he’s already ditched free movement in an indicative vote, so i’m not holding my breath. but i live in hope. and to my loyal friends, the unionists, i say: ‘he is not your friend’. the withdrawal agreement is still on the table, and i truly believe it is the solution. so messrs barnier, juncker and tusk: a tweak could have been quite helpful. no more than a paragraph could have perhaps resolved the issue. but now, again, we’re having to ask for your patience so we can find a way forward. finally, this is not a game. the british people are demanding that we deliver on brexit, not hold a european election. i think that’s a relief to colleagues in this house. so for goodness sake, i say to my colleagues in london, support the prime minister’s deal. it is truly the only way forward. the clock is ticking. tick-tock.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, despite mr juncker’s determination to give a punishment beating to the united kingdom, the current impasse is not exclusively his fault. it has been your misfortune almost as much as ours to be dealing with the worst prime minister in british history, someone who stands for nothing and can deliver nothing. when someone is so passive about having sand kicked in their face, it takes a restrained kind of bully to walk off the beach. we know from its dealings with greece and others that the commission is not a restrained kind of bully. but you would be making a terrible mistake to assume that mrs may is representative of the british people. you have men like tony blair whispering in your ear about the dream of the british suddenly embracing your project of integration. do not believe it. we are a different kind of european nation. we have a different history, a different geography and different modern networks too. you should ask why blair, in his pomp, could not risk a referendum on euro membership. you should ask why brown could not risk a referendum on the lisbon treaty and you should ask why cameron, when he was forced to hold a referendum on membership, lost it to the greatest number of british people ever to vote for anything. finally, you should ask yourselves why – after being threatened with no food, no water, no medicines and no jobs – the latest polls show that more british people wish to leave the eu with no deal next friday than to remain. once you’ve asked these questions then you should look ahead. you should imagine how mrs may’s successor would seek to rebuild shattered tory support before the next general election if we have not left. he or she will be leading a party whose potential support is overwhelmingly formed of leave voters. do not expect consistency from the conservatives, by the way. the tooting popular marxist front will not last. instead, the answer is obvious, guy verhofstadt is right. the successor will seek to rebuild support by making your lives a misery through vetoes and political sabotage, by rejecting every proposed development of your project. so, reject another extension, resolve that brexit will happen on wto terms next friday, and then negotiate constructively to tie up the loose ends after that. do this and we can still be your best customer, but lock us in and we will be your worst nightmare.
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, every time we think that things can’t get worse, they do. every time mrs may gets up to speak, we think that she may say something to resolve the situation. instead, she just sinks lower into tragedy and farce. now she’s handing the brexit hot potato to jeremy corbyn, and apparently the european union will decide whether we take part in the european elections or not. has the whole brexit process fiasco been an elaborate conspiracy between mrs may and the eu, or is it just due to her monumental incompetence? either way, we have to hand it to you, mr juncker and mr barnier. you have done what philip of spain, what napoleon, what kaiser wilhelm and hitler couldn’t do: you have brought britain to its knees, without firing a single shot. but you could not have done any of these things without the connivance of the traitors, quislings and collaborators in the british parliament and british establishment. as seneca said, a nation cannot survive treason from within – and treason it is. mrs may and the tories planned to betray brexit from the start. they have betrayed it by means of delaying and impeding, with the intention of finally overturning it altogether and setting aside the decision of the referendum. many of the 17.4 million people in the uk who voted leave now believe that their vote is pointless. but britain is still nominally a democracy, and the vote is the only weapon that ordinary people have. those 17.4 million people can still vote for brexit, and they can make a start on 2 may when the uk independence party is fielding candidates up and down the country in the english and welsh local elections. mr juncker, if i heard you correctly, you said that there will be no extension to article 50 beyond 12 april, and if there is no agreement on the withdrawal deal, then we leave by default and go on to wto terms. i think that’s one of the few things you’ve said i actually agree with. good: let’s bring it on. but if britain is forced to take part in the european elections on 23 may, then ukip will field a full complement of candidates in england, scotland, wales and northern ireland. there will be no deals or alliances with opportunist parties and their daily allowance-grabbing candidates. ukip will stand on the policy of unilateral and unconditional withdrawal. no compromises and no surrender. and ukip will carry forward that policy into the next general election. ukip will accept no agreement on any other terms. we stand for a complete and total exit from the european union. the struggle to set britain free from the european union continues. ukip leads that struggle. vote ukip. vote brexit.
madam president, rule 11, paragraph 3 of our rules of procedure to make a point of order about what was a flatly disgraceful speech from mr batten right there. (applause)he does not speak for the people of the united kingdom, he barely speaks for his own party, such as it still exists. and to use that sort of rhetoric in this house of democracy is utterly shameful. can i suggest that you and the presidency think whether or not this house should continue to give a platform to these wreckers for their poison?
madam president, this gentleman represents a party which claims it wants independence and yet it’s happy to be subservient to the european union. by all means, ban me and watch my vote go up in the united kingdom.
madam president, if messrs juncker, tusk and barnier think they are dealing with a british prime minister, then i have news for them. theresa may might still have the title, but she’s nothing more than a prime ministerial ghost squatting in number 10, awaiting the political coup de grâce from a party that despises her. while many of you just want the whole brexit debacle to be over, to get on with your building of a european superstate in peace, mrs may is clinging to your enterprise like a dog on a postman’s leg. not only is mrs may ignoring her party and the electorate in trying to force a vassal state deal on britain, she’s also negotiated her way into enacting the remain-minded policies of the labour opposition. now bearing in mind the attitude of the british people to the eu project to date – and imagine what it would be like after a complete brexit betrayal – shall i call on you all to do britain and the eu project a favour? give may the coup de grâce the conservatives are too weak to deliver, and let the uk leave on 12 april.
madam president, does mrs may really wish to make a deal with jeremy corbyn? it would involve her abandoning everything she has said up to now about customs union, single market: abandoning every red line she laid down. if she doesn’t, the house of commons will continue to reject her deal and to want to avoid a no—deal scenario. but it’s significant that, in the indicative votes that took place in the house of commons, the one that gained the highest number of votes was the proposal to have a confirmatory referendum putting it back to the people. and that’s not surprising, because look at public opinion in britain; look at the swings in the opinion polls; look at the numbers of people who’ve signed a petition to simply revoke article 50. there is growing support for reversing this historic mistake, and on 10 april it would be folly if the european council decided that it prefers to end this without a deal and without further ado, just at the point when we can change this course of action.
madam president, i was born in 1949. europe was in chaos, a mess left by a war of hate and racism. thankfully, visionary, clear-thinking people worked to build a safe, secure, united and free europe, building a union based on values and principles that protect its citizens, with freedoms that were just a dream in 1949. we all stand on the shoulders of those architects: schuman, monnet, adenauer, churchill, and our own simone veil, and so many others. this union is a gem. it sets the benchmark for the world on trade standards, environmental protection and human rights. it’s not perfect, but it’s the best yet. we must all defend it. and this chamber is the shining example of cooperation and tolerance. i wish westminster could follow our example. as the uk turns its back on the eu, descending into chaos and confusion, whatever the outcome, it will be bad for britain. so i look to future generations, including my own sons, born as european citizens, with hard-won rights, into a peaceful continent. it is the young who must rebuild the uk’s trust with the eu, bringing britain back to its rightful place with its closest neighbours. on a personal note, i thank you for the tolerance you have all shown to us brits as we have driven you to the end of your patience. thanks too for the friendship and support to me and others with so many in this house as we’ve been fighting to stay with you. you will remain our friends.
madam president, what the british government could not do to ireland during the conflict, member states, the 27 of you must not even contemplate doing during peace. our peace process is too important, so don’t even try to contemplate to reinforce partition by hardening the border in ireland. and as for erecting two borders, the solution is to remove borders, not to add borders. of course the eu needs to protect its single market. however, the eu must also uphold its treaty obligation to do no damage to an international agreement – the good friday agreement. there is a democratically endorsed way for the eu to do both, yet you are ignoring the solution. if you think by constructing two borders in ireland you will encourage the british back to the negotiation table after a crash you know little about the british establishment, because it doesn’t give a hoot about the people of ireland. it never has and it never will. so, if in the event of a crash, you choose not to advance our democratic pathway back into the eu, then at least do no bloody harm.
madam president, a little over 20 years ago in this chamber i made my first plenary speech as an snp member – scotland’s party of independence – and i came here hoping that i would play a part in scotland’s transition to normality as an independent country. that was not to be, and look where we are now. i could never have imagined 20 years ago, that i’d be trapped in this idiotic westminster chaos of brexit. voters in scotland voted to remain. every single local authority area in scotland voted by majority to remain, and yet westminster continues to ignore scotland’s interests in this process. and to date, we have seen the london government and parliament failing even to make a negotiated settlement amongst themselves, let alone an international one. scotland can and must do better, and i think that our recent experience in the last two or three years has amply illustrated the argument for independence for scotland, so that we, as a normal country, can make our own arrangements with our neighbours and the rest of the world.
mr president, i would say to ms foster that that was quite some speech. you say ‘goodbye to remainers’. well, given brexit has destroyed the conservative party, fairly soon we’ll be able to say ‘goodbye and good riddance to the conservative party’, and i look forward to that day. we cannot rely on a decision that’s made in a panic. if the deal is passed in a panic, if some other concoction is passed in a panic, it is not sustainable. i understand we want a resolution to this, i want that no less than anyone else, but please, we may need more time. the only sustainable way forward is to put whatever comes out of this process to a vote of the people, because it is nothing like what was offered in 2016. and don’t be afraid of giving us more time if we need a longer extension, mr verhofstadt and others, don’t judge us by the people over there who rail against the benefits of the european union. judge my country by the plurality of people who are in it: the pro-europeans, the millions who have signed the petition to revoke article 50, the millions who have taken to the streets to defend the values of this place. we are the true britain, we defend europe, we defend its values and we’re not going anywhere. don’t be afraid of us. welcome us and give us the time we need.
madam president, thank you to mr dance because i can follow very neatly on from what he said and i can drop some of what i was going to say. i want to appeal to members of this parliament directly, as fellow parliamentarians. we uniquely represent the people of europe, the citizens of europe and, as we stand at this moment, 60-odd million of them still reside in the uk. we are still members of the european union. we have not left yet. we have not got an agreement to leave yet. please, i ask you to remember that because for us it’s really important that you give us the opportunity to redress the damage that has been done, and the only way that can happen is by giving us a long extension and us fighting the european elections. yes, mrs may is terrified of fighting the european elections and so is every other westminster politician that you will see on the tv and so are my friends over here. they know that, unlike their rhetoric of dangling the bogeyman of mr farage coming back, actually, it’s going to be quite tricky for them, and you’re going to return, if we have the european elections, to a very strong pro-european contingent from the uk. give us that opportunity. don’t jump off the cliff.
mr president, i was pleased that the prime minister mentioned climate change in his speech and the importance of the european union delivering on the paris climate agreement. prime minister, in your home country, sweden, you have a very large number of trees, you have big forests – in fact you do trees and forests exceedingly well. those trees and forests are all soaking up carbon emissions, and increasingly you’re using your wood to make products that go into the construction industry, which also continue to soak up the carbon. one of your biggest markets is the united kingdom. your neighbour, norway, now has the tallest wooden building in the world, at 18 storeys, and the opportunities to build big and tall in wood are there for everyone to see now. recently in the united kingdom we unfortunately had a horrific fire in london, in the grenfell tower, where over 70 people lost their lives. one of the consequences of that fire is that the british government is looking at banning the use of wood in buildings over eight storeys tall. i think that would be an overreaction and a mistake. it would mean you would lose an important market for your cross—laminated timber and other products. i wondered if you’d be open to intervening with the british government to point out that this is maybe the wrong road to take in response to grenfell, because the need to tackle climate change means we need to build much more in wood in future?
mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister and say, prime minister, that i welcome your friendship and words on brexit. unfortunately, i have brexititis, so i apologise for the coughing from the back, but a lesson from brexit is that the left-behind areas of our countries must be listened to and heard on the negative side of globalisation and the impact of rising precariousness, and i strongly agree with you that the social benefits of eu membership have to be tangible in people’s lives and tangible in people’s workplaces. but the influence of our market goes way beyond our borders. no one will stay in love with globalisation unless there are stronger, fairer social and environmental rules internationally and europe can lead the way, but is our trade policy really fit for purpose? corporations have far more rights to justice than the workers and communities that they rely on. shouldn’t we be pushing for eu mandatory business and human rights rules to clean up labour exploitation in our supply chains at home and abroad? stefan, i like your vision of the future of europe, and i hope that my country will take the opportunity and decide to stay so that we can build it together.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the eu common rules for the internal market for natural gas reiterate the principle according to which more eu interference is going to solve europe’s energy deficiencies and dependencies from external energy sources. new eu definitions and less derogations to member states will, according to this report, lower energy prices and augment regulatory certainty. well, it hasn’t happened yet. mr president, it seems quite remarkable in my opinion that eu institutions have not yet learnt their lesson. euroscepticism is rising all over europe. people ask to be heard. nevertheless, this house, just like the unelected eu commission here in brussels, seems to be living in a parallel reality, far from the poor householder that cannot afford their energy bills. you are willing to sacrifice the needs of ordinary people to achieve a greater, yet highly expensive and unreliable energy goal. i think it is time to put the eu project aside and admit that eu energy legislation has impoverished europe and its industries and households. member states should be focusing their agenda and finances on discovering local energy sources. it is time for europe to become independent from its green-driven agenda. we know renewables are not reliable enough to make europe free from energy imports. as for my country, britain, i deeply hope that once outside the european union, hopefully with a no deal brexit, we will be able to scrap eu energy legislation altogether and invest in proper reliable and affordable energy sources.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, when i saw the title of this debate, my heart lifted – i thought ‘oh a fisheries fund, i wonder what they’re going to use that for? maybe they’re going to use it to pay some rent to the british government for the use of their fishing grounds, or maybe they’re going to use this fund to compensate spanish fishermen and other fishermen who are no longer going to be able to fish in british fishing grounds’. but i don’t get that impression here at all; it’s just going to be business as usual – post-brexit, you continue to plunder our fishing grounds, just as you have done for the last 40 years. i live on the east coast of england near two big fishing ports – they were big fishing ports when i was a child, of course, but they’ve just gone. a whole society, an industry, has been wrecked by this european union, and we really did hope when this referendum came up that there would be a change. at last, we would be able to get our fishing grounds back. the fishermen were so uplifted. they campaigned so hard – they had flotillas going down the east coast, up the thames – and when the referendum result came in, they cheered and cheered and cheered. but those cheers are absolutely in vain. you have no intention, do you, of getting out of our waters? short of us putting warships in there, i really don’t know what we’re going to do. now i’ve finished my time, and my colleague mike hookem will continue.
mr president, the real shame in the government betraying the british fishing industry is the lost potential. i’m not talking about the lost income, despite there being plenty of that as the uk continues to hand the eu a business worth an estimated gbp 6.3 billion a year. no, what i’m talking about is the lost potential to coastal communities, the lost opportunities for future generations, and the continued decline rather than renewed growth through our reclaimed fishing industry. fishing is changing rapidly. it is becoming an industry of even greater skill than ever before as ships are computerised and mechanised. yet, because of theresa may’s determined betrayal of brexit, there are generations of young people who will be denied the highly skilled opportunities their french, danish, norwegian or icelandic contemporaries enjoy, and instead of enjoying renewed investment, the wealth of coastal towns will continue to ebb away as it has done since we joined the european bloc. communities that have survived over hundreds of years due to the brotherhood of fishing will slowly cease to exist. so please, eu, do the uk a favour and tell theresa may no, non, nein, when she comes begging for an extension.
mr president, i represent the fishing nation of scotland. the european maritime and fisheries fund in its current term is worth about gbp 150 million to scotland’s fishing communities, contributing to port facilities, health and safety on vessels and many projects in the all—important processing sector. but scotland’s experience in the common fisheries policy (cfp) has not been entirely positive in every aspect. the cfp has been grossly over—centralised and inflexible over most of its existence, to the detriment of many parts of our catching sector. indeed, the cfp has often been used as a justification for brexit. but we should never forget that the cfp has been constructed over the years with the full agreement of uk governments, and if brexit goes ahead the uk government has decided to retain fisheries powers at westminster. the record of uk governments in betraying scotland’s coastal communities does not give me much confidence for the future. we’re expected to believe now that, all of a sudden, uk governments will prioritise scotland’s coastal and island communities. i don’t believe it, and i think independence for scotland is the answer.
mr president, let’s start with the context. in 2017 china’s exports of goods to the eu were eur 375 billion. this gigantic figure is roughly equivalent to the entire economy of nigeria. and now some more key facts. china is not in the eu’s single market. there is no customs union between china and the eu. there is no regulatory convergence beyond those goods that china actually sells in the eu. there is no free movement of people between china and the eu. china does not have a trade agreement with the eu. nevertheless, china has access to the eu’s single market. indeed, access enough to sell these goods in this massive volume. how come? perhaps this is permitted because the eu has a trade surplus with china? far from it. the eu’s trade deficit with china in 2017, including services, was eur 160 billion. this deficit was roughly equivalent to the entire economy of romania, if you would pay attention. so there you have it. china has full access to the eu’s single market. by comparison, the eu demands of the uk, for example, payments of gbp 39 billion that the uk does not even owe, the supremacy of the european court of justice, which should really be called the european court of injustice and, worse still, the effective regulatory annexation of the province of northern ireland. well may the representative of the commission snigger away. and this is in return for access. it is as if the eu was asking of china the same regulatory annexation of the province of sinkiang. from this debate, it seems that the eu would like good trade relations with china. a great idea, but one question: does the eu want, let alone seek, the same good trade relations with the uk? it certainly does not seem that way.
mr president, i want to say thank you to my amazing staff, peter roberts and chris jones, and thank you to the labour party and the people of the east of england for giving me the opportunity to serve. and to everyone in this chamber: i’m sorry. i’m sorry that my country has chosen a path that will make my nation and yours weaker, poorer and more isolated. brexit britain means fewer opportunities to collaborate and for businesses to thrive, reduced capacity to tackle the big issues like climate change, and power ebbing away. it is a tragedy. and i say: not in my name. for what we have here is precious. cooperation. consensus. unity in diversity. prosperity. the greatest peace project ever. i will always be proud to be british, and european too. and to be a socialist, and because i am a socialist i am an optimist. so, to every brit at home who knows in their heart that this brexit is wrong, my message is simple: do not despair. organise.
mr president, we warned you about the disaster that brexit would cause to the north of ireland. we warned you that the british government would take negotiations right to the wire. we warned you that the british government would destroy our eu rights. we have done everything in our power to protect the rights of people in the north of ireland, because no one knows perfidious albion like we do. when the british government legislated to remove the charter of fundamental rights, we sought legal advice which demonstrated that the british have an international obligation under the good friday agreement to uphold the rights of people. yet the british establishment, along with the democratic unionist party, are riding a horse and cart through the good friday agreement. people in the eu talk about the rights of the three million eu citizens in britain. what about the 1.8 million in the north? #weareirishtoo. people like emma desouza and other irish citizens have already had their rights stripped away. brexit is about more than just preventing physical infrastructure on the border partition in ireland. it’s about protecting people’s rights too.
mr president, this measure, proposed two years ago and five months in trilogue, is an example of a piece of legislation which doesn’t provide a one—size—fits—all solution, which is flexible and allows great opportunity for member states to make their own laws and implement them themselves according to their own context and customs, but which gently raises the floor for everybody. so even some of the wealthiest and highest level of protection countries, like the uk, will see people benefit without being told what to do by brussels bureaucrats. parents in the uk will have paid parental leave. carers in the uk will have paid parental leave under this measure if the uk remains in the european union.
mr president, i rise under rule 190(4) of our rules of procedure to ask that the stanishev matter be deferred to the next part-session so that we can have a full debate. i make this request for two reasons. the first is that the report describes gibraltar as a colony. it is not. it is a self-governing british overseas territory. the people of gibraltar have full autonomy. they are british by choice. the second reason is procedural. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) agreed the rapporteur’s mandate by 59 votes to zero, and claude moraes negotiated according to that mandate. he was then removed in a closed meeting because the spanish government did not agree with the mandate that libe gave him. his removal was an outrageous abuse of procedure. it is one thing for the spanish government to persuade the council of their views. it is quite another for them to subvert the rules of this place. we need a debate to expose spain’s corrupt influence on this file. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, i rise on the same issue, but under rule of procedure 59(3) to ask this house to open up the report for amendments. i do not wish to postpone it. the justification is simple. this technical and very welcome report, which gives uk citizens the rights of visa entry to the eu after brexit, has been hijacked by a politically—motivated intervention from spain in the council. the addition of the wording describing gibraltar as a colony of the uk is not in the ep mandate and the rapporteur, claude moraes, has consistently upheld parliament’s position. he was then put under tremendous pressure, and was eventually removed by a conference of presidents’ decision, rapidly followed by parliament conceding to the council’s demands. in effect, parliament has colluded at the highest level to replace a legitimately—agreed parliament text with the self—interest of one member state. irrespective of politics, i believe that this process demonstrates a disregard for the prerogatives of this parliament and should be resisted. i and 38 meps, including clare moody and molly scott cato .... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, yes, i confess that i drafted this particular paragraph in our rules of procedure. it has been there for some years and it is specifically there to cater for this sort of situation where we have an inordinate number of amendments but where it is possible to make groupings in the way that mr lamberts described, or in other ways, in a sensible way, so that parliament can get through its business. whilst respecting the rights of members to put their positions and have them voted on, it does make sense to group amendments in this way and it will permit us to get through our business efficiently, effectively, without any members losing their rights to table amendments. (applause)
mr president, this may of course be my very last intervention in this place, and so it seems apt that it should be on a measure which, under the guise of the single market, of course ends up imposing more requirements and regulations on the private sector, and is in fact about removing competitiveness by requiring a degree of extra state intrusion. this, of course, has been the story from the beginning. we in this chamber, with almost no idea of what it’s like for a small company operating within tight profit margins, like to virtue signal by passing laws of this kind. but since this may very well be my last session, let me take the opportunity to thank you, mr wieland. you have always been an impartial, wise and efficient vice—president and a credit to the chair that you occupy. if this is indeed our last interchange in this capacity, then let’s part as friends and let me say thank you for what you’ve done.
mr president, i voted against this proposal because, as so often in this place, it is heaping extra burdens onto small businesses that can ill afford them. very often big companies and big organisations that can afford to pay lobbyists get through the doors here and are able to influence the legislation that goes through. this is, i am afraid, another example where the legislation that we are putting through is absolutely fine for large companies that can afford the extra costs, but small companies will be unable to afford the extra costs that we are piling onto them and will therefore be at a disadvantage. having run a small business myself, i know only too well the disproportionate effects that these sorts of regulations can have, and it is for that reason that i voted against this measure, in order to support small companies.
mr president, tomorrow is walk to work day. this morning i walked to work; tomorrow i will walk to work. walking is one of the great pleasures for the human race. not only is it enjoyable, but it keeps us fit, keeps us active, and keeps disease at bay. and yet, all too often in new developments – and particularly with road infrastructure – the needs of pedestrians are ignored. i was absolutely delighted to be able to vote for this report, not only because it takes into account the needs of pedestrians, but also because it recognises that this is an area where the individual member states should be taking a lead. we should not be making everything the same; we need to take account of local conditions and local preferences. so on both those counts, i’m delighted to support this, and i’m looking forward to our roads and highway infrastructure being a lot more pedestrian-friendly than they have been in the past.
mr president, i welcome this report on improving the safety performance of road infrastructure. i am particularly concerned about safety measures to prevent lorries and trucks from hitting low bridges. britain’s most bashed bridge is in ely, in my constituency, just down the road from my office. the 9-foot tall bridge has been hit 120 times in the last 10 years, and it’s still getting hit despite the brand new giant warning signs. that causes delays for passengers and big costs in repair bills. we need to learn from others about high-tech and low-tech solutions. for example, how about the use of chains hanging from a gantry just before the bridge which would alert a driver if it hit the top of their vehicles. mr president, you can’t just try it for size when you’re a professional driver in a heavy vehicle.
madam president, firstly, my sympathies on hearing about the fire at notre dame cathedral. it is really very sad – a beautiful cathedral. now to the report. the smooth distribution of eu cross-border investment funds is hindered by national regulatory barriers. of the eur 14.3 trillion investment fund, 70% of total assets under management are held by funds authorised or registered for distribution only in the domestic market. only 37% of ucits and about 3% of alternative investment funds are currently registered for distribution in more than three member states. this makes a capital markets union rather meaningless. so four years on, this flagship project will finally reduce some barriers, increase transparency and remove overly complex and burdensome national rules. it is a win for the investors, getting more choice, better value and protection. i welcome this reform as a critical step. however, to ensure, say that a portuguese retail investor can be fully confident in investing in latvian investment products, more work needs to be done in terms of the fees charged. my question to the vice-president is: are there any preparations for greater transparency and standardisation on the capping of the fees charged?
on behalf of the s&d group. – thank you, madam president. i rise to speak on a report that has been long in hibernation and i had almost given up ever having an opportunity to speak on it, so my congratulations to the co-rapporteurs ms pervenche berès and mr othmar karas. these european supervisory authorities (esa) reforms are an important step forward as a single rulebook with a consistent supervisory approach across the eu by the european supervisory authorities, and will, i believe, contribute significantly to well-functioning of the capital markets. but what is critical is that this reform will entrust the esas with greater consumer protection powers that will ensure that toxic financial products will be prohibited, and with additional responsibilities in their mandate on environmental, social and governance factors. however, i am concerned that this exercise could become meaningless if we do not tackle the issue of money laundering with greater vigour, so i welcome the comments by commissioner jourová. european banks have lost eur 20 billion in stock market value in the last six months, due to money laundering. banking regulators need to show real ambition in addressing this. given the powers to tackle this increase significantly, i am mindful that we still have not struck the right balance between the european level and the national level. this is, of course, a very fine line, but it does mean that the member states have to move on from the status quo. that has been a recipe for a disaster and led to the last financial crisis. banks and national supervisors must change their behaviour substantially, significantly, if the capital markets union is to become a reality, serving the real economy and eu savers.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when you look at the pictures last night of notre-dame burning, in times like this it’s time to put aside politics and wherever you are, whether you are british, european or from the rest of the world, many people shared sorrow when they saw those pictures. personally, 25 years ago my wife studied in france and she worked in paris for a while and we used to go to notre-dame. it’s an iconic building and we were only there last month and we took photographs of it, bringing back fond memories. think of the millions of people over the years who have stood and watched that building, whatever their faith, looked at it and it’s been a symbol not only of paris but of the history of europe, but also the whole feeling it gives. and even though it’s a building not of my faith, i share the pain of many of you in this chamber today and i hope that we can all come together, whether british, european or from outside europe, come together and do our bit in that rebuilding. many of us had hoped that we wouldn’t be having this debate today and that the uk would have left the eu on 29 march, or even last week, but we have to deal with life as it is. the british government is still committed to delivering brexit in an orderly way ...(laughter)... and leaving the european union as soon as possible, so that the people in the uk and the eu can focus on the future, or what jean—claude juncker referred to as a ‘positive agenda’. however, i realise that your patience has worn thin and that you look and wonder what is happening in westminster. but eu membership has been a divisive issue in our country for many years, not just in my party but in the main opposition party too, and you can see these divisions playing out, and i know many people here will ask: well, why didn’t you begin cross-party talks sooner? and while that may seem natural to most people in this chamber, this is not how the uk system of parliamentary democracy works. you only have to look at the house of commons, where the two parties sit opposite each other rather than side by side as in this parliament. on one side sits the government, on the other the opposition, and rather than seeking to build coalitions across, it’s a much more adversarial style of politics. so the current talks are naturally uncomfortable for members of both main parties, myself included. the article 50 extension agreed at last week’s council may not have been the answer everyone, or perhaps anyone, wanted, but it gives us more time to pursue all the options in search of a breakthrough and i hope that my colleagues in westminster do not take too long. our economy, our politics and our country need certainty and we must aim to find a solution in time to avoid participating in the european elections. the time has now come for pragmatism. let’s get it done. i’d like to thank mr tusk for his more constructive approach last week compared to, say, some of his more recent statements. i think, mr tusk, that your words in advance of the council struck the right chord, that this shouldn’t be about recriminations or humiliations, and that to remain friends and move forward we have to build a future partnership that can truly stand the test of time. as a country the uk has been in difficult positions before, but we have a reputation for seeing things through and i believe that this time will be no different. i just wonder if i could end on a personal note. this may be my last speech from this seat or in this chamber after nearly 14 years and can i just say to my colleagues that whether we have agreed or disagreed over the years, whether you are re-elected or moving on to new challenges, can i thank you all for your service. can i thank you all for being part of this amazing experience and can i wish you all the very best for the future. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, well it’s easter and we’re still here, and i and millions of my fellow british citizens couldn’t be more delighted about that. for me it’s … (applause)... absolutely wonderful to be able to see through the mandate that i was given by the people of south-west england and gibraltar in 2014. i’m equally delighted that the uk will be holding european elections in may and the greens are going to use these democratic and proportional elections as a celebration of the values of the european union. we will mobilise one of the most powerful pro-european forces in our continent and we will champion a fairer, greener, and more democratic eu. i’d like to thank the council, and particularly president tusk, for allowing us the breathing space to reconsider our vote to leave the eu. building europe has never been easy and he has shown the vision of the founding fathers, who persevered in difficult times to welcome and even include those countries which were having difficulties at home, perhaps particularly those countries. as a green mep i’ve always been tough on brexit but we also need to be tough on the causes of brexit. we must address the issues that gave rise to feelings of powerlessness, of alienation, of being left behind, that prompted so many of our fellow citizens to vote to leave in 2016. so i wish my colleagues happy campaigns. let’s share a message of hope about the positive change that the european parliament can bring to their lives. let’s resist the siren song of the far right with its politics of division, hate and fear. in britain, a strong pro-european vote across the country will massively increase the chances of winning a future people’s vote and convincing our fellow citizens that our best future is as part of the european family. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, well i have tried for 20 years to do myself out of this job and i thought i’d succeeded. little did i realise what the uk political class would do, so the morning message is: i’m coming back. in fact lots and lots of us are coming back because mr verhofstadt is right. yes, i said that. first time ever! you’re quite right, the brexit party will sweep the board in these elections and there is only one way it can be stopped and that is if the governing party of ms may and the opposition of mr corbyn come together and agree to a permanent customs union and indeed effectively membership of the single market. if that happens, the brexit party won’t win the european elections but it will win the general election ...(applause from certain quarters)... because the betrayal will be so complete and utter. so i don’t believe it’s going to happen, and in 15 years as a joint or sole president of a group, i have been to dozens of european summits and again and again i’ve seen conflict between nation states and the european institutions, whether it was the austrians, or the irish, or the hungarians, or indeed the greeks. and there is one golden rule, always, and that is that brussels wins. the power and might of brussels always wins. but i’ve never been to a european summit quite like last week, where for the second time in two weeks a british prime minister comes along and begs, begs for an extension to article 50. it was humiliating, not just to be in brussels, but humiliating for the standing of our country around the world. you know, the commonwealth, america, many of these countries that actually like us, still believe that we are a great nation and yet we have sunk to this: a prime minister that promised us we’d leave on 29 march, that then said we might leave on 12 april, that we would definitely leave on 30 june, and now we’re being told we’ll leave on 31 october. halloween trick or treaty, make your minds up and if it’s your last day, mr juncker, well i hope that we leave together on that day. but actually, if it’s left to this appalling prime minister, if it’s left to our politicians in parliament, i know that it’s not going to happen. in the past, i know i’ve always criticised the power without accountability of senior bureaucrats in brussels, but for once i have to say that this mess is not your fault. your position has been clear from the start. the mess is the fault of british politics, of two parties which both promised us in their manifestos they would deliver brexit, which signed up to article 50, which expressly said we would leave with or without a deal. that is where the betrayal is and i do share members’ great sadness about the appalling tragedy of notre-dame cathedral in paris being burnt down yesterday – something very beautiful has been lost – but something very vital is being lost in the united kingdom and i thought the deaths column of the times newspaper yesterday summed it up rather well: ‘uk democracy, on 29th march 2019, aged 312. it was with sad regret that democracy died quietly in her sleep at 11pm, on the 29th march 2019. the cause of death was by foul play and the culprits have yet to be brought to justice. democracy campaigned for the rule of law, human rights [...] and [always] favoured the majority in all her decisions. she will be sorely missed. god have mercy on [our] soul.’ what is happening in british politics, beginning on 23 may isn’t now just about brexit, isn’t now just about us leaving the european union. it’s about what kind of country we are. we have the oldest, longest serving continuous parliament in the world. the mother of parliaments. we have fought and given much for that principle of nation state democracy, not just for us but for our friends in europe too. i sense among some in my country disillusionment. but in others i sense a burning anger. not one to put on yellow vests and protest, but one that says we need a peaceful political revolution in our country. we need to sweep away the two—party system that has let us down so badly, and i think you’re all going to be very surprised by what happens on 23 may. it will be a new future for british democracy and goodness me, it’s needed. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, (inaudible) would never be happening if the referendum decision of 2016 had been honoured, then britain would have left long ago. instead, the democratic decision of 17.4 million people is being deliberately and cynically betrayed. the european elections in may will inevitably be a re-run of the referendum question. whatever the political parties say, the voters’ choice will boil down to voting ‘do we remain in the european union’ or ‘do we leave the european union’. the remainers should vote for the liberal democrats. they are the true party of remain. leavers should vote for the uk independence party; ukip is the true party of leave. voting conservative or labour is truly a wasted vote because nobody, including them, actually knows where they stand on this issue. ukip’s policy is clear and straightforward. it is one of unilateral and unconditional withdrawal. but these elections will divide people into two distinct groups, not just in the uk but across europe. one group will be those who consent to be governed by a foreign power: the european union. the second group will be those who vote to rebel against further eu integration and in favour of returning democratic powers to the nation state. one group will be voting for freedom and independence. the other group will be voting for subservience and submission. one thing that we can be sure of is that eurosceptic meps will return in big numbers and their voters will be voting for a return to democratic accountability, an end to austerity measures and for their economies to be run in their interests and for their benefit. they will be voting to end mass uncontrolled immigration. they will be voting for parties that want to preserve their cultures and their civilisation. there will be a great populist vote across europe. in the united kingdom we have the simplest choice: vote to remain or vote to leave. it was the electoral threat of the uk independence party that brought about the referendum in the first place, and ukip will continue to fight to make brexit happen. ukip meps elected on the 23 may will continue the political struggle to set britain free from the european union, and a vote for ukip on 23 may will send a clear message to her majesty’s government: leave on wto terms immediately. ukip does not just campaign for brexit; we actually want to make it happen. a vote for ukip is always a vote to leave the european union and the british public should vote ukip on 23 may.
madam president, may i also join those people who have commented on notre-dame, and in particular your words, mr tusk, on sharing the pain of the french people, when you said we are bound by more than just treaties. that’s very true, and that’s why i was so shocked when you said that, that mr farage – who’s no longer with us, as usual – shouted out ‘rubbish’. i think that illustrates the attitude of some of those on that side of the house. but they are the voices of the past. the british people are beginning to see through the lies that they have told for years about the european union. they’re beginning to see through the lies they have told about brexit. remember they told us it would be easy; well it’s turning out to be pretty complicated. they told us it would save lots of money that would all go to the national health service; it’s turning out to cost a fortune. they said there would be new trade deals ready with countries across the planet to replace any lost trade with europe; in fact we’re losing all the trade deals we have via the european union if we go ahead with brexit. the british people are beginning to see through that, and that is why they are so afraid of having another referendum, because they know what the answer would be if we had one. (applause)and that’s also why the conservatives are (inaudible passage) european elections, because they know they would be hammered in those elections. i’m a bit surprised that mr verhofstadt and some others in this house were afraid of those elections. there’s no need to be afraid. the majority of british members being returned will not be of the ilk of those on that side of the house. (mixed reactions)and in any case, brexit – the european union losing a member state for the first time in its history – the consequences of that decision are far more significant than the inconvenience of one group having a few more members than another group in these elections. have a sense of perspective. (applause)this extension must be used, as mr tusk rightly said. i have no great hopes for the talks between the two front benches, because mrs may cannot move position without a rebellion in her party. but it does give us the time to go back to the people and end this damned mess that we have got ourselves into. (applause)
madam president, can i also identify with the remarks to the french people here this morning and i think we all have a feeling for them at this moment. the latest development in kicking the can down the road as far as possible just happened last week. yes, the extension gives the opportunity to really address the real problem and you’ll not be surprised, mr barnier, i still consider that problem to be the backstop. i’ll not change that. it has haunted these negotiations since the beginning and will continue to do so as long as you retain your position. i have to say, the extension to october, i can see no agreement at the end of that time. i really believe now it will take a new commission. it will take a new parliament. it will take new views to bring an answer to the end of this problem. my view has always been simply, if you’re part of a club, you should be in the club. they cannot be half in the club or half out of it and that is the trouble where the uk found itself. if i may – mr brok has gone – this will be my last speech, not maybe, will be my last speech in this parliament after 30 years and i want to take the opportunity to say that it has been a great pleasure and honour to represent the people of northern ireland in this house for 30 years. there have been some good times and some extremely sad times where we have been through some of the most terrible terrorism ever faced in any part of europe, and i had to go through that. but it was this house, it was jacques delors who stood by the people of northern ireland when he brought about – and when ian paisley and john hume and i went to see him back in 1994 at the beginning of the peace process – he asked us, how can europe help you? and europe did, with over 2 billion extra funds that touched many people up and down the length and breadth of northern ireland. so, as i say farewell to this parliament today, i can say i have enjoyed myself. i hope i have given it something and i hope i have represented my people well during my time here because they are a proud people, they are a great people, the people of northern ireland. (applause)
madam president, nothing has changed: london violates the good friday agreement, dublin continues to leave the north behind, six more months of uncertainty as the british push back on what they agreed in december 2017. their brexit violates and involves stripping people of their rights, including the right to vote – a demand that was at the core of the civil rights movement. so we are facing an election that the tories and the dup did not want; an election that fine gael and fianna fáil didn’t want the people in the north to vote in. so let’s send a clear message to london, dublin, and brussels. let’s pass judgement on this brexit chaos, on this act of wanton political vandalism. all voters in ireland, by electing sinn féin meps, can also take a step towards a democratic way out of this brexit mess: a step on the democratic pathway back into the eu for the north of ireland and another sensible, rational, logical step towards irish unity. (the speaker agree to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i think you’ll find i’m taking my seat here, and sinn féin has been very clear with regard to the position of the dublin government. the irish government is only one of a few member states here in the european parliament that deprives its irish rightholders of the right to vote in european elections when they don’t reside in their member state. you would know, seán, that in the north of ireland my mother, my mother’s generation and people like that went to london with john hume to fight for one man, one vote. your party thought that they could give us mark durkan – one man, no vote. you know nothing about ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, as a scottish and uk member, it turns out reports of our demise were greatly exaggerated, but i am grateful to the council for the time, as president tusk said, to find a way out of this, and president tusk – to paraphrase john lennon – you may say that you’re a dreamer, but you’re not the only one. there’s plenty dreamers in scotland, there’s plenty dreamers in the uk who know that the best brexit is no brexit. so thank you for the time to find our way out of this. (applause) but turning to the european elections, which my party is preparing for and looking forward to, i have a warning and a plea – learn the lessons of brexit. the ingredients of brexit exists in all our countries. populism is on the rise. misinformation, populism is a risk to all of us and i have to say frankly the uk’s democracy is in trouble, and i urge you to send international observers to make sure our european elections are properly conducted, because i don’t have faith in our domestic authorities. it’s proven the leave campaigns lied, it’s proven they broke electoral law, data protection law, campaign finance rules, and there is every indication they will do it again. this election is going to be a fight for europe. it’s going to be a flight for international solidarity. my party and scotland stands ready. you can count on us. i hope that we can count on you also. (applause)
madam president, i’d like to thank everybody here for their patience and statesmanship at the highest level, and i’d like to single out mr tusk. i’d like to say to you, i have had so many letters and emails and texts asking me to come and shake your hand and say thank you for what you’ve done for the uk. you have a cult status now. your acceptance of the responsibility of avoiding no deal is in sharp contrast to many politicians in the uk – particularly conservatives, who have lied, cheated and prevaricated. indeed, this seems to be an essential element of their cv for party leadership and to be the next prime minister. but the work of mr barnier, mr tusk, mr juncker – senior epp politicians – has given us the chance to vote on 23 may, and we are grateful. we’ll use this opportunity to make the case for eu membership. i’ll be working with change uk – brave westminster colleagues who put country before party – and we will make sure that we deliver a result which will make sure that we indicate it’s time for that second referendum and that referendum can take place in september, and by 31 october we will remain.
madam president, on behalf of the people of london, i would like to express our deep love for the city of paris, and our admiration for the courage of its firefighters. we will rebuild notre dame together. brexit is a process and the people over there are denying that process. they deny the fact that when you look at all of the brexit options available, there are negatives, and no one wants to own those negatives. so it's far easier for them to stand aloof and cry betrayal. but the truth is that brexit is undeliverable, the one that they promised is undeliverable. i hope that we have eu elections in the uk so that there is a clear choice between those on that side of the chamber who cry betrayal at every opportunity and those of us on this side of the chamber who stand ready to work with our colleagues to build a better europe, because that's what this place is for - working together for a common future - and we are ready to play our part in that. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, for the hour is late, and the time is short. the european union was built out of the nightmare of the second world war and it was a dream born of that nightmare that created the place in which we are today. so i endorse president tusk’s comments that we still need dreamers. in the words of t. e. lawrence, ‘all men dream: but not equally. those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find it was vanity, but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dreams with open eyes, to make it possible.’ for the hour is late and the time is short. so dream on, president tusk, dream on. dream on, remainers, dream on. then act on those dreams and make them possible. we can remain. we will remain. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, throughout my time here in the parliament and in the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), i’ve championed the better regulation agenda, and this, my friends, is not better regulation. in a mad rush to conclude legislation at any cost, we’ve abandoned our commitment to the parliament text on this directive. we had clear wording to exclude the self—employed from the directive, but this was watered down to a little recital, not legally binding. how can the epp support that? how can the s&d support a text which still allows the abuse of pilots in the pay—to—fly for training? across the political spectrum, we agreed that workers’ rights and workers’ safety should be protected, whether you work for a large company or a small company, whether you work in the public sector or the private sector. but the trilogue text exempts civil servants, it exempts firefighters, emergency services, police authorities, judges and prosecutors, it undermines the political message, and it allows member states to exempt themselves. this does a real disservice to this parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, like some of the other speakers, my group feels that this has been a real missed opportunity to fully modernise the written statement directive. of course we can welcome measures such as the increased and better information contract at an earlier point, the compensation for cancelled on—demand work, but we do have problems about the definition of ‘worker’ and that the variants with the different member states means that we’re undermining a certainty there. we also have grave problems in accepting the right of member states to cover fewer workers in terms of the scope, not least the exemptions as has just been referred to, for example in the public services, emergency services, loopholes round household workers, when at the same time we are also urging member states to invest in good public services as a key component of social europe, and i’m not sure how this also works for workers who work multiple jobs, all on short—hours contracts. so we think, as others have said, that council here could have followed the european parliament, it could have followed the commission, on putting in real strong, sound substance to help build social europe, but what council has given with one hand it has taken away with another.
madam president, in 2016, the committee on petitions (peti) of this parliament heard directly from mcdonald’s workers from across europe about their precarious employment contracts and conditions as part of their ‘unhappy meal’ campaign. i’ve worked with them and i’ve been inspired by the mostly young workers in the fast food industry, who’ve joined together in their unions to say, ‘enough is enough, we deserve fair working conditions and decent pay’. this week we’ll be voting on a step in that direction. the draft rules on transparent and predictable working conditions are not as radical as i would have liked to see. i would have liked an explicit ban on exploitative zero—hours contracts and an explicitly universal coverage for all workers, regardless of public or private, and regardless of how many hours they work. but, as the european tuc have said, these rules give new important rights to precarious workers and shift workers across europe. these rules must be implemented comprehensively, without loopholes or exceptions. these are minimum rights. let’s do better. growing precariousness at work is fuelling economic insecurity on which the far right feed. let’s stop that feast.
madam president, the lead miners breaking their backs underground in the north pennine hills in the 1800s had zero job security. the same was also true for the dockworkers of liverpool in the 1900s. so how is it that in the 21st century, when we can put a man on the moon and send a probe to mars, we cannot yet give the ordinary man and woman job security? with the rise of zero—hour contracts in the uk, through the emergence of the gig economy, and the transformative way our world is changing through the fourth industrial revolution, we must adapt legislation to ensure that workers are protected in this new ecosystem in the world of work. so with the uk government still trying to leave the eu, and with the risk that the conservatives will seek to water down workers’ rights, we must recognise that good regulation for predictable and transparent working conditions, along with collective bargaining for all citizens in all 28 member states, is the best way for the uk, for the 27, for unions and for workforces.
mr president, there comes a moment when you realise you’re one of the longest-serving members in this chamber. i’m old enough to remember the tillack affair, when a german journalist was arrested, had his notebooks, his private papers rifled through, because he had been exposing fraud in the anti-fraud authorities. nobody, by the way, rifled through the private papers of the alleged fraudsters. i’m old enough to remember the marta andreasen affair, when an accountant was brought in to clean up the commission’s accounts, discovered that in some cases they weren’t even using double-entry bookkeeping, and the reaction in the commission was to fire her. why does this happen? well of course, all organisations become interested in protecting their own position. that’s human nature; it’s not exclusive to brussels institutions. but i think it is exacerbated by the intimidating fervour, the almost religious belief that people have in the european project, that makes them think that the ends justify the means and that critics can be legitimately silenced. tackle that and you’d solve a great many problems.
mr president, i am delighted to support this report. labour meps, alongside our socialist and democrat colleagues, have fought tooth and nail for these new rules that will improve conditions and give new rights to millions of workers on insecure zero—hours contracts and working in the gig economy. i am sick and tired of hearing from people who work hard, but don’t know from one week to the next, whether they will be able to afford to pay the bills. but the fight back has begun. an end to work cancelled at the last minute without compensation. workers given enough to notice about new shifts. no more paying for your own training. europe is changing because we are voting to make it better. a fair deal at work for the many, not the few.
mr president, i’m happy to support this report as an important first step in recognising the problem of zero—hours employment, and a first step to ensuring that those employment practices are brought under control. it is not unreasonable to ask for equal treatment of people at work regardless of the contract that they have. we know that the flexible economy is here to stay and it’s a reality, and therefore it’s essential that we regard framing the rights of those individuals as a trans-european problem because if it isn’t at the moment, it will be eventually. it is not asking too much to expect predictable employment hours and income from a job, it is not unreasonable to expect to be able to plan your budget. it is unreasonable to want exclusivity from people in that position of taking flexible work and it is unreasonable to insist that they pay for their own training. this nonsense simply has to end.
mr president, for too many people the economy under this conservative government is simply not working. i see this every day across the east midlands: insecure jobs; zero—hours contracts; levels of in—work poverty going up faster than employment; demand at food banks increasing. there are parties who in the coming weeks will have nothing useful, if anything at all, to say about these issues, but i’m proud to have voted in this parliament for measures to tackle insecure employment, to tackle low pay and exploitation, and to ban zero—hours contracts. so when people vote in a few weeks’ time, elect meps – labour meps – who are committed to contributing positively and constructively in this place, committed to working here in the european parliament to tackle unfairness and inequality, and who will ensure people in all our communities – whether they voted remain or voted leave – have hard—working, serious representation in this parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, at a time when the two sides in libya were supposed to be sitting down to discuss a road map towards elections under a un-mediated settlement, we are instead witnessing general haftar’s lna troops battling militarily for control of tripoli. the british government has warned that any lna advance on tripoli would be very damaging for the political and diplomatic solutions on offer and risk a descent into more widespread violence and chaos. prime minister al-sarraj of the un-supported government of national accord in tripoli has given further warnings that the advance on tripoli risks sparking a fresh migration crisis in the mediterranean if the situation worsens. with reports suggesting that many refugees are being forced to join the various militias operating throughout libya, these warnings should not go unheeded. given the complexity of the situation and the multitude of actors involved, the way ahead is fraught with hazards. however, the un-mediated talks are the only peaceful options still on the table. the eu and eu member states must therefore do all they can to support these talks with one united voice. to those who see in general haftar a potential strong man who could consolidate power and bring order to that chaotic country, i would urge them to pay attention to the various reports in the public domain that question such simple assertions. significant military and political opposition remains in his way and there is little evidence to suggest that he could easily hold the country together in the longer term.
madam president, of course, ms ayala sender, mr brok, mr castaldo and others have correctly described the situation of intervention which has brought us to this situation, but the vice—president is here to talk about coping with this immediate situation now. the external action service came before our committee recently to talk about those coping strategies, and i really want to ask her – along with my colleague, ms spinelli – how we are going to do this now with the extension of operation sophia without the support of naval assets and other issues. is there any scope here for flexibility? are we going to change our views if this situation does worsen? and, of course – i mentioned ms ayala sender – we saw tariq al seka detention camp ourselves, we know what you are also dealing with. this is not an issue of blaming anyone; this is an issue of working together. but the risk of thousands of refugees and migrants who remain trapped in detention in the qasr bin ghashir detention centre, and the communications we are all receiving having visited libya, indicates that this is a crisis which will only get greater during this very politically tense period. so i ask you again: is there any flexibility in the approach? and please tell us about the operation sophia situation.
madam president, libya and the whole arab spring situation is a salutary lesson in western intervention into nations that we don’t understand and places where we cause more harm than good. look at what happens: chaos, refugees, deaths. and who gains from it? despots rise; terrorist groups draw power. we need to understand that, in future, going in with bombs and military into places like this is not going to be the solution. nine times out of ten, it will make it worse. we need to be there to talk to people, to help, to have diplomacy and to trade, but certainly, we must understand that the days of muscular liberalism and intervening in these places must be behind us. the only way forward is trade and talk.
mr president, high representative, we’ve heard already sudan has experienced massive changes in the last weeks: al-bashir ousted after 30 years; temporary military leader installed and no free media; food prices beyond the reach of many; political opposition blocked for years; and to top it all, the second-highest inflation in the world. however, the people, and especially the women, of sudan are resilient and have aspirations and are hankering after real change. they rightly have reservations about the military regime and want to have a transition towards proper civilian government, following free, fair and transparent elections. the eu and this house should show solidarity with peaceful demonstrations, and we should have concerns about two years’ length of transitional military council and need to work quickly to ensure that impartial media are set up and restrictions on internet are lifted. high representative, i welcome your statement that only credible and inclusive political process can meet the aspirations of sudanese and lead to political and economic reforms the country needs. but my questions to you are: what mechanisms and alliances are you proposing to move democracy on in the short term, and also, will the eeas examine closely the financial flows towards sudan, as the us did when it fined the french-backed bnp paribas usd 9 billion for violating us sanctions against sudan? and can you confirm that the arms exports towards sudan from the eu are still prohibited and this prohibition is fully respected?
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, next month the european elections will take place in a very different political context than the previous ones. mass disinformation campaigns and malicious cyber—activities, including attacks on the electoral infrastructure, are increasingly aiming to discredit and undermine the electoral processes and our democracies, while polarising our societies. as elections take place in all member states during the same period of four days, they are particularly sensitive from the point of view of the risk associated with cyber—attacks and disinformation. if some attacks were to be successful in one member state, it would most likely have a domino effect and affect the democratic processes in the other 27. thus, it would discredit the eu institutions as a whole. in addition, it is a particularly important period for our national authorities, as more than fifty presidential, national, local or regional elections are due to be held in member states by 2020. when setting out our six-month presidency programme, we identified as a priority the need for streamlined and sustained action to protect free and democratic eu elections. combating disinformation and increasing the eu capacities to deter and respond to cyber—attacks were also regarded as key elements in view of securing the electoral process. we attach great importance to this subject, which has been recurrent on the agenda of the european council in recent months. the eu institutions and member states have indeed an important and complementary role to play, each in the remit of their competences in the protection of the democratic processes. it requires concerted efforts by the eu and the member states, but also from civil society and industry online platforms. our response is comprehensive, with a focus on both the internal and external dimension of the threat. in february 2019, the council and its member states adopted conclusions on securing free and fair european elections. they welcomed the commission package, which included a legislative proposal amending the regulation on european political parties and foundations, which was in the meantime adopted by the co—legislators. they also welcomed the joint action plan against disinformation. honourable members, i take this opportunity to thank you for the good cooperation which allowed for the swift adoption of the new rules to prevent the misuse by european political parties or foundations of personal data in the ep elections. the council conclusions set out a comprehensive approach to protect the european elections from interference such as cyber—attacks and disinformation campaigns from inside and outside the eu. a comprehensive approach is our motto. we do not want to leave any loopholes. all strands of action and all actors should be connected. to achieve this objective, the conclusions identified actions to be taken and which, indeed, have been implemented in the last month: the holding of regular meetings of the european election cooperation network, in which member states share expertise and good practices and jointly identify threats; the setting—up and launch of the rapid alert system, where national contact points in member states share information rapidly on disinformation campaigns; the enhancement of strategic communication dedicated to european values and policies; the strengthening of the european media ecosystem by facilitating networks of independent fact—checkers; the promotion of media and digital literacy and awareness—raising activities to protect the integrity of the electoral process, together with the private sector and civil society; the assessment of cyber—threats in the electoral context and measures to address them and preserve the integrity of the electoral system in this regard (and, following the recommendation in the compendium on cyber security of election technology, a table—top exercise on protecting the 2019 european elections took place on parliament’s premises two weeks ago); a call on social media platforms to invest in resources to deal in a responsible and accountable manner with election-related online activities; in the same vein, the european council in march called for the full implementation of the code of practice; and finally, among this set of actions, cooperation with relevant international actors. to contribute to the efforts of countering disinformation, the presidency launched a mapping exercise to identify the actions undertaken at national level, which demonstrated the significant efforts made by member states to combat disinformation. the answers provided by the delegations will form the basis for a synthesis report that will feed into the discussions on the possible ways forward, including beyond the 2019 elections, foreseen for the european council in june.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is indeed a timely debate – thanks for scheduling it. with the european parliament elections rapidly approaching, we’re in what you might call the final straight when it comes to taking measures to ensure that they are secure. what have we been up to? well, we’ve heard some of the things that we are doing. briefly, to recap, over the last six months or so we’ve brought together the member states election commissioners, cybersecurity experts, data protection experts in the reinforced election cooperation network, in order to share best practice and promote cooperation with a view to better securing our elections. we’ve set up a rapid alert system among the eu institutions and the member states in order to spot and tackle coordinated disinformation campaigns. we have worked with this house, meps and the political parties to raise awareness around the transparency of particularly political advertising online as well as the security and resilience of electoral systems. indeed, we organised a workshop with you, mr president, in parliament to that end. earlier this month, as we heard, we carried out a table—top cybersecurity exercise, together with parliament, member states and our eu cybersecurity agency to check how cyber—secure. that, i’m glad to say, was opened by your colleague, vice-president wieland. we’ve seen the big internet platforms sign up to our code of practice on disinformation, last summer, which was reinforced by the publication of our action plan on tackling disinformation in december. under the code and the action plan, the platforms have been reporting month by month on their progress to tackle disinformation, particularly political disinformation. we recognise that there has indeed been progress, but those reports have been patchy, and they continue to show that – at least in some areas – efforts are lacking. while some credible progress has been made in the area of political ad transparency, platforms still need to improve independent scrutiny through better access for fact—checkers, researchers and civil society to the data they need. we don’t want the platforms to be marking their own homework. we want to see greater action against fake accounts and bots. we need see more quick and prominent corrections, for example, through a pilot programme of the correct the record initiative that’s been advocated by civil society. we have now received the latest reports from the platforms on what they’re doing, covering the month of march and we’ll publish our assessment of those reports in the coming days. in a way, this represents a final push in areas where we can realistically still have a meaningful impact in the fight against disinformation before the ep elections. at first sight, the latest reports do indeed suggest further progress has been made, for example, in terms of transparency for political ads and indeed ads in general, but there are still some outstanding issues. finally, let me say that member states’ computer security response teams are going to come together in a further exercise on election cybersecurity integrity in mid-may. that’ll be a last opportunity for us to test how robust our cybersecurity measures are in the run up to the ep elections. one issue that i just want to mention, one of the outstanding issues that we’re dealing with the platforms, in particular with facebook, is facebook’s decision not to permit cross-border political advertising. i know that this has raised concerns in this house. as president juncker said in his exchange of letters with president tajani, this was a decision that facebook made. there’s nothing in the code of practice that limits political advertising to advertisers residing only in a given member state. obviously, it’s up to facebook to respect the law. it’s also up to them to decide how they do so, and in this case the decision they’ve taken, the interpretation that they have given to respecting national electoral rules has raised concerns about the ability of eu institutions and bodies and europe—wide political parties to communicate effectively in the run up to the ep elections. we discussed this in the conference of presidents last week and i’m glad to say now that the secretary-general of this institution, the council and the commission have written to facebook setting out again our concerns very clearly and asking that facebook reconsider their approach in this area as a matter of urgency. we’ll have an opportunity to address these concerns direct with facebook at an upcoming meeting that we are having with them. i just want to say that, of course, the issue of election security will not disappear after 26 may. as we’ve heard, elections continue – indeed there’s an election somewhere in europe every week, and so we’re going to need to continue our efforts to protect elections and our political lives in this digital age. this process is going to include a discussion at the european council in june on an initial assessment of how the ep elections have gone. any lessons that we learn from that on the basis of a report prepared by the presidency, the commission and the high representative will be an opportunity to look ahead, learn lessons and establish a strategy for the future. depending, indeed, on what happens between now and the end of may, i think we should discuss how to react, how to learn the lessons and to take the necessary steps for the future. we will also review the code of practice later in the year and look again at whether we need to do more to reinforce transparency around the activity of online platforms in this political space. i look forward to our debate today. this is not a challenge of just the next few weeks. this challenge will not go away. we need to maintain our current push for immediate action in the run—up to the ep elections, but we also need to look further ahead, to the future, to ensure that our democratic processes remain as robust as we need them to be.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i welcome the measures the commissioner has taken. he’s worked hard on this issue, but this is a very tough issue. electoral interference is proven, it’s happened and it’s going to happen again. and there is a sense of urgency in all of this. when the commission followed up parliament’s calls on a code of conduct to stamp out the spread of fake news online and reported on the code of practice against disinformation, we looked at the progress and we saw that the commissioner warned that facebook still has 116 million fake accounts on its platforms. we really can’t control this spread unless we really use the tools that we have, so there is a sense of urgency. signatories to this: it’s not just facebook, it’s google and twitter, and we know that the commission will follow up this work and we really need to act as a team to ensure that this happens. but this is about online and offline actions. this is not just about cybersecurity. so online, we have called for full algorithmic accountability and transparency. this is essential for citizens to be able to protect themselves against any manipulation and to protect our electoral processes from foreign interference. we also have to look at how political parties and campaigns are using social platforms for campaign purposes. offline: we have to have electoral safeguards, such as rules on transparency and limits to spending, respect for silence periods, equal treatment of candidates, banning of profiling for electoral purposes, and social media platforms should label content shared by bots and speed up the process of removing fake accounts. offline and online is important, but we also need to ensure that we understand that the general data protection regulation is not the only model for protection. we may need to end the deadlock on e—privacy regulation to ensure that the rights of citizens, especially regarding the protection of users against targeting, are protected. so, we need to think about what we do about facebook and the cambridge analytica scandal, using all of the tools we have here in the european union. there are three regulators in the world: china, the united states and the european union. i am in the european union. i want the eu to act on foreign actors interfering in our elections. what is more important than that as we enter the european elections? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, claude; it’s really not a hostile one. i’ve got to know you since we’ve been here; you’re a fair and reasonable man. do you not see, despite all of the things that you’ve stated in your speech – much of which i can understand and go with you on – that there is a danger when these tools are applied from state level, from government level, that free speech itself could become impaired, particularly online? we disagree on many things, but i would always stand for your right to say what you believe. i would hope that would apply to everyone.
blue-card answer. – what i said at the beginning – and i know that the commissioner will agree with me when he finally sums up – is that we’re not talking just about free speech, which is the most valuable thing that we are protecting; we’re talking about interference in our sovereign elections by foreign powers. this is a proven issue in the 2016 presidential election and a proven issue in the brexit referendum. not make—believe; proven evidence. when that interference happens, our whole democratic structure is unstable, and many of the things like free speech and the things that we hold dear are then made unstable. that is my answer to you: that i hold free speech as dear as you do, but unless we can have integrity in our elections through these online and offline checks, we will have nothing.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, so we have to protect ourselves from these evil russians who are controlling the internet, do we? who are sending misinformation; who single—handedly won the referendum on brexit because of their bots, apparently. but we don’t worry at all about the fact that actually what this could lead to is censorship and control of free speech. we talk about power. the power of the establishment forces over the mainstream media is unparalleled. look at the bbc in the uk – one of the largest, if not the largest distributor onto the internet – highly biased in favour of the state. that’s okay, it seems, because it’s not an anti-eu force. what we’re looking at here is very, very dangerous. of course, facebook and other profiles need to weed out bots and so on and so forth, but if you give the state power, if you give laws, rules and regulations this way to clamp down, who is using them? just imagine for a second if a right of centre, pro—capitalist, anti—green lobby took control of the european union. just imagine it. horrifying, isn’t it? if that were to happen and they suddenly clamped down on the free speech on the internet of people protesting against them, how would you feel? is it not conceivable that we should allow people the right and the freedom to express themselves. we always hear about freedoms here. what’s more important than the freedom of expression and freedom of speech? in my opinion, there is nothing greater. there are many people – if not most people – in this room who i disagree with, but i would be the first to man the barricades and fight to defend your right to express your opinions, however you choose to do it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question; it’s a well put question. i do share that concern. i don’t want interference from any agency that gets in the way of free elections. but, if it were a choice between the risk – because life is all about risks – of giving up that ability for people to freely express themselves and freely make their views, and the risk of the state and potentially a road towards totalitarianism, i choose the risk involved in free speech, but i do accept that we need to try our best to avoid foreign agencies.
mr president, the web has been woven right across the european union. practically no member state is untouched. through this web narratives are constructed and propagated, a result of which is that compromised political actors today sit in this very chamber and in chambers right across the european union. in the commissioner’s country and mine, the united kingdom, we have left it simply to individual journalists to call it out: people like carole cadwalladr, james o’brien. brexit’s dark money and influence through facebook tackled by damian collins, chair of the select committee for digital, culture, media and sport; executive—level action, literally nothing; and now the brexit party. paypal, through donations of under gbp 500, is facilitating the flow of money into the european union and to nigel farage. and i ask him as a member of this house to come and explain to this house: nigel farage, where is your money actually coming from?
mr president, the ‘elephant in the room’ during many of the discussions on this horizon programme has been, of course, the position of many uk institutions that contribute in such a major way to the predecessor programmes. it’s not the fault of the rapporteurs or the negotiators that the situation over brexit is yet to be resolved, but it is at last now clear that even this uk government will seek closely to associate whatever the outcome of brexit with this programme. the only remaining threat is the extreme brexit sought by climate change deniers and anti-science populists. i’m glad to see, however, scientific excellence maintained as a key criteria for horizon europe funding. excellence is not enhanced by throwing money around, it is enhanced by collaboration with excellence. the contribution of the uk’s world-class research community makes horizon europe a bigger, better and more successful programme.
rapporteur. – mr president, this package reboots consumer rights for the internet age, bringing new protections and empowering consumers with information whenever they buy. i’d like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the romanian presidency, and the european commission for their hard work and commitment to achieve an agreement before the european elections. we had just three weeks from start to finish of the negotiations and we focused on a single trilogue. it turned into a very long day, but after ten hours of negotiation we got an agreement. now as some of you will be aware, this agreement was subject to further adjustment from the commission, which had made it clear in the talks that it needed to confirm its mandate. the final text addressing dual quality was therefore tweaked, but the crucial substance remains: consumers can no longer be misled by products made to different standards but marketed as the same in different member states. it’s not right, and the agreement we vote on tomorrow will stop those egregious breaches of consumer trust. now i know some colleagues feel that we should have gone further, and i have tabled amendments to that effect for tomorrow. but let me be clear: if any of these amendments pass, this will collapse the entire agreement. the council and commission have made it clear that they are already at the edge – they can’t give any more. so if they pass, there will be no deal at all. that means no provision at all on dual quality, and there will be no updated consumer law at all – just a few weeks before an election. this will not help consumers, who are currently being misled. there will be no law coming down the track for them. it will not help consumer authorities. they would not, for example, be able to give out penalties that they need to enforce all the other consumer laws. and it would not help producers, who would continue to be undercut by competitors who flout the rules. i struggle also to see how it would meet political reality. it would risk delaying efforts to tackle dual quality for years, if not for ever. but with the agreement we have found, there is a beginning. dual-quality products now for the first time are addressed, and in the coming years, the commission will have to review progress seriously. those are concrete steps of progress rather than unrealistic amendments. and we should remember that this package is about more than dual quality. there are vital improvements to the consumer protections we cannot, in good conscience, delay. and the parliament’s demands have been met in many areas. we have banned bulk-buying of event tickets following an earlier law in the uk. this practice penalises real fans, either unable to see their favourite team or artist or forced to pay touts many times the face-value price. and this will now stop, because it’s been cheating everyone and it’s good news that we are able to ban it here. we’ve also succeeded in introducing requirements to improve trust in online reviews, marketplace ranking and the pricing of discounts – all to the benefit of the consumer. i also believe that in the internet era we should trust the informed consumer. the online world contains a wealth of information that can empower the consumer, but it needs to be genuine to be useful. our measures on online consumer trust will make sure that consumers know when they’re getting information that they can rely on, helping them find the product that they are looking for. i'm glad that we could also get support from the commission and the council for a tool to build consumer awareness and use of their rights. the european consumer rights – or, as i like to call it, the ‘ecr app’ – will give consumers a single identifiable point to know their rights and easy access to the complaints procedure that will help them solve their problems. we also ensured that changes to the right of withdrawal were rejected. this is an important right for consumers and for their trust in e-commerce, and if we can adopt this agreement tomorrow, it will be just over a year from the adoption of the proposal by the commission to the conclusion of our work. so i would like to thank the shadows again, who all helped to ensure the compromise, also the imco secretariat and the legal services for their hard work and dedication. these rules will make a real difference to consumers’ everyday life. they matter. so let’s not delay their implementation by one more day and let’s adopt the text tomorrow.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is a big file, but 90% of the interventions have been on one issue, and i agree with what many of you have said on dual quality. that is why we managed to achieve a lot on it. this is a ground-breaking agreement for dual quality, but what i don’t understand is why colleagues want to kill the whole agreement, including everything, because we didn’t get an impossible demand through. it is simply not viable to demand the same in all countries; there are different taste preferences in different countries, different raw material availability, and it is not always worse because the ingredients are different. i’ll give you an example: coca-cola in the uk is made with cane sugar; in belgium and france, it is made with beet sugar. who is being discriminated against? please tell me: who has to lose the product they like in the industry that they have? i understand that your worry is about eastern europe. well, in the coke case, it is isoglucose, which is produced in eastern europe and is also the same thing they use in the us. so i ask my question again: which is the best product? who is being discriminated against? if we passed that amendment, you would have to do this for every single product in the eu – millions upon millions of them. it is just not possible. it is also not possible to pass this amendment and go back to the negotiating table; there will be no negotiating table. the council and the commission have made it clear that they have given all they can, and they’ve given a lot. the time has now gone. it will also be clear to them that there was no point the commission proposing anything on this, because the ep will take an unrealistic position, which will mean that, in the end, we have no deal. and then we will lose all of the following: what we did achieve on dual quality, on ranking transparency, on the block to the changes to the right of withdrawal, on banning bot selling, on marketplace transparency, on banning fake reviews, on price comparison services, transparency, and on the ability to levy penalties. let’s not throw all of that away. just before i finish, i want to thank the people in my office who worked on this: cameron smith, alex davis and jonny goff.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, let us start off with one proposition. it is not a good idea for politicians to seek to intervene in the legal process. in fact it’s a very bad idea. the separation of politics and law is central to western democracy. in the case of mr julian assange, he was taken into custody, came before a court and sentenced, because he was found guilty of jumping bail. there are entirely separate charges of hacking and the like that have been filed against him in the united states. it is these charges that are to be the subject of an extradition hearing. the hearing will take place before an english judge, and what the council said was factually wrong: the home secretary does not decide. many people, including me, have disliked and disagreed with some rulings of judges in the uk, but no serious person doubts the objectivity and professionalism of the english judiciary. nevertheless, ms gomes and other colleagues want the legal process to be subject to political interference. this is my last speech in the parliament, but i have to disagree. to debase the legal process to politics is entirely contrary not just to western values but, ms joly, to all the institutions of democracy. we as politicians should leave the legal matter of julian assange well alone. now, what were the original legal proceedings that caused mr assange to jump bail? well, it was the european arrest warrant, and this warrant was brought not by a swedish judge but by the swedish prosecutor. despite this, with the european arrest warrant there is no real defence against extradition, and this is very worrying. we hear a lot in this place about human rights, but it is the s&d, the alde group, the british liberal democrats – all the unthinking supporters of a european superstate – who are also the same people who are big supporters of the european arrest warrant. their commitment to civil liberties and the european arrest warrant is highly flawed, as it probably was in the case of mr assange. your commitment to civil liberties and legal due process comes to a grinding halt at calais, and all in the name of yet more integration. if only these people would think again, and i beg you and urge you to do so.
madam president, i very much appreciate you giving me the opportunity to respond. it is a legal matter; that is it. period. it is a legal matter. now if you’re an advocate of politicians’ interfering and intervening in legal due process that is a perfectly understandable and legitimate point of view, although one that i don’t happen to agree with, but that is your privilege. that is your privilege to argue that, but it is completely contrary to the way in which western democracy and democratic institutions are organised. the separation of the executive and the judiciary is absolutely fundamental. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i’ll answer in just a few seconds. what colleagues are advocating is that the british government intervenes in the judicial process in england. what you’re advocating about turkey is that we intervene or seek to intervene. i entirely agree with you on your criticisms of turkey and i only wish my government and other governments would make it clear that turkey will never become a member of the european union, irrespective of whether the uk is a member or not.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, when i first came to this parliament some 20 years ago now, the first legislative file i worked on was the overall revision of the coordination of social security systems. we voted through that agreement, now regulation (ec) no 883/2004, in the final plenary week of that parliamentary term. i had hoped by the time i had finished my time in parliament to be voting through a similar agreement with council on the latest update, but unfortunately that’s not going to be the case due to big divisions in council. and why not? because i believe this file has become a mix of narrow national political interests and people trying to use the regulation to fix problems which are not its core business. my political group has tried to keep the citizen as the person concerned in the language of the text at the centre of that approach, and those citizens are not only workers, family members, students, travellers, but anyone covered by a social security system and in a cross—border situation. we welcome the clear inclusion of long-term care in the updated regulation, but we start from the belief that the overwhelming majority of citizens and their employers want to stay on the right side of the rules and thus protect their entitlements, so it helps if the rules are clear and as easy as possible to follow, with a degree of flexibility that reflects and assists daily life. it also helps if there is an effective administration that responds quickly and assists people, rather than acting as a bureaucratic barrier that pushes people to take chances. generally, we support the committee report. the only amendment – amendment 197 – that we’ve reintroduced concerns this blessed a1 form, an attestation and not a permission, and we’ve proposed the issuing of an open a1, valid for three months, so that an individual who travels often on business doesn’t have to make multiple applications that are time-consuming for the person concerned and the administration. as regards the other amendments tabled, we don’t support the indexation of family benefits. we believe that a cross-border worker is entitled to equal treatment, and that such a measure is not cost effective, though some governments may find it politically expedient. we also point out that this report strengthens the oversight possibilities for member states and they can always adopt bilateral measures if necessary, which makes far more sense than trying to adapt the whole regulation to fix a bilateral problem. so we believe the committee has found a sound basis for this proposal, and we believe it provides a sound basis for negotiation for the next parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it’s all very interesting but this is a very dangerous thing for the united kingdom. britain’s social security system is based on need, and not on contributions as it is on the continent. in france, for example, you can only draw out what you pay into the system. if you have not paid in, you can’t draw out. this is why migrants queue at calais to go to the united kingdom but they are not queuing at dover to come to calais. this is because the social security system is more open to people who have just arrived. there’s nothing wrong in that. our system is good for the system we’ve got. your system is good for what you have. but the trouble is, the two systems are utterly incompatible. any change to that system could bankrupt britain’s social security system, which is one of the major reasons we voted for brexit. we are basically concerned that it would bankrupt our social security system and put enormous stress on our health service, which is also free at point of use so people can just turn up and use the system. this creates problems. it means that we could never have a true integration of these systems. and why should we? why should we not have competition throughout europe? why should we all have some monosyllabic soviet system which is decided by the european council or decided by the commission? that really isn’t going to work. we need to have competition in wages. we have to have competition in everything. that’s what makes a vibrant economy and why the british economy is booming, despite brexit, and the european economy is not doing very well at all. the euro looks as if it’s in a very bad state. even deutsche bank is having problems and the italian banks are all on the rocks. so, all in all, our system does seem to be superior. any attempt to try and make all the systems in europe exactly the same is going to lead to one thing: a form of, i don’t know, soviet communism, whatever. it’s a very, very bad and dangerous idea and i’m afraid britain can have nothing to do with it, which is all the more reason for us to leave.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, a happy easter to you all, when it comes. public outpouring of distress about the destruction of the notre-dame cathedral in paris shows how deeply we care about the cultural and religious heritage of europe. any unity the continent of europe has, based on its philosophical and religious heritage deriving from roman law, greek philosophy, christian faith and, dare i say, british democracy (as a more recent example), while it was drawing up the constitution of europe, later the lisbon treaty, which we didn’t like very much, the eu rejected any reference to god or christian religion in europe. well, this is something alien to the continent of europe. the eu itself, with its project of aggressive secularism – as roger scruton called it, oikophobia – is the rejection of our own heritage and culture, which is the basis of our current cultural weakness and why many people throughout europe are more and more rejecting the european union. the european project is like a terrifying religious cult, something invented by mr robespierre or something of that ilk. the prime minister, mr kariņš, with all due respect, said russia had something to do with brexit. sorry, sir. the british people, who stood alone in 1940 against authoritarianism, are quite capable of making up their own minds about europe. what they don’t want is bureaucratic authoritarianism from unelected european bureaucracy. i mean, let’s be honest, this parliament is a bit of a eunuch. they want to be ruled by their own sovereign parliaments. at the moment our own parliament is dominated by an establishment which has been infiltrated over 30 years or more by members of the euro-cult, who are preventing a simple brexit – something that could easily be done; we could have easily just said we’re leaving with wto rules or give us a better deal. and if they didn’t, we could have left with wto rules. but the euro-cultists decided otherwise, including, may i say, our own prime minister, mrs may, who has misled the country in many ways. dreaming up lots of nonsense about unnecessary backstops in ireland, which seem intended to break up the eu for daring to leave the euro-cult, the establishment at westminster are out of touch with their own voters, and this is seen increasingly to be the case. if the eu and its uk-establishment allies force mrs may’s grossly unfair and ludicrous deal down britain’s throats (which is actually worse than actually being in the european union), to avoid a european election (which i think you’re all trying to do at the moment; mrs may certainly is – you probably want it too), because it will be won by mr farage’s brexit party. and if not, may i tell you, if you don’t have that election, the following general election in great britain will be won by mr farage’s brexit party. evidently, we need to clean out the euro-cultists out of the parliament of westminster to get a proper brexit. i told mr barnier (sadly he is not here with us today), who i think is an excellent negotiator – i wish he was on our side – to his surprise, may i say, that the british parliament cannot bind its successors. if you don’t give us a fair deal, it won’t stick, so you’re wasting your time. however, it seems more important to the euro-cultists to make sure that they get their cult together, that they keep the project going, than a profitable deal with great britain, which benefits the citizens of not only europe, but great britain. the european union must govern by consent, not punishing, like a modern inquisition, those countries or individuals who do not share your faith. learn from history, especially people in the low countries – mr lamberts, for example – learn from history. the free thinkers of the spanish netherlands in the low countries overthrew the inquisition, which was dominating europe and stopping people thinking and acting for themselves. their rebellion against the spanish inquisition led to free-thinking democracies in the low countries and in the united kingdom. thank god for them. the free thinkers of today are what you call populists. personally, i’d rather be a populist than an un-populist, but there you are. what you dismissively describe as populist will be elected shortly, from all over europe to this next parliament, and they will dominate it. they will dominate it and they will change radically the eu, or they will break it. bend with the wind or be crushed, i think is the thing you’ve got to think about. the eu is as much a threat to european democracy in the same way the inquisition was in the 16th century to free thinking and democracy. prime minister kariņš said, we do not have to worry about migration, and that many people want to come to a stable, democratic continent. i don’t blame them. if i were living in the third world or any other part of the world that wasn’t europe, i’d want to come here too. who can blame those people? if i were in their position, i’d want that. but if the numbers change, the philosophy and the democratic nature of the european continent, that is neither in the interests of the people who live here or the people who are coming here. it will be a disaster. so the other thing to worry about is the crushing of their health service. so europe can only survive by rule by consent, not the force they have used on the uk. you have frightened a lot of counties but not in a good way.
rapporteur. – mr president, we spent ages getting an agreement. this is the final agreement that was agreed by all groups, all groups in the trilogue agreed to this agreement. we’ve got significant new rules on dual quality that address the issue that you all have. any amendment that we pass on this will kill this file dead and that means the entire new consumer acquis in a whole load of areas will die. we’ve got an agreement, it is a good agreement, i would back parliament to back that agreement and get this new law into force as soon as possible.
mr president, a brain drain. that’s what being unable to apply for european research council (erc) funding could trigger according to the university of cambridge, because it is not just the hard cash that is important, eu funding is key in enabling international collaboration and attracting the very best scientists, and horizon 2020 also means that university of east anglia scientists are building prototype, clean, cheap and energy efficient batteries, while at the university of hertfordshire, ph.d. researchers are exploring photovoltaic technologies. today we discussed the successor programme, horizon europe for 2021-2027. now i appreciate that’s rather far in the future for the british government, who currently seems to only operate on an hour-by-hour basis, but in or out of the eu, we need to be in the horizon europe. our current reputation is for ground-breaking research, but we know well that reputations are hard won and easily lost.
mr president, horizon funding is making a real difference in my region: gbp 110 million supporting cutting-edge research at east midlands universities, gbp 37 million to support business and enterprise across the region. this funding is vital, just like the european funding programmes over the years that have underpinned regeneration and economic development, and which have supported important programmes across social priorities like adult learning. the british government must now commit to replacing these funding programmes pound for pound. anything less will not be acceptable. if billions can be found for a no-deal brexit, then money can be found to replace these eu funding programmes on a pound—for—pound basis. anything less will not be acceptable. remain or leave, all areas in my region must get their fair share in the future, and that’s what i’ll be arguing for.
mr president, horizon 2020 has been one of the most extraordinary research vehicles for a long time. because this might be one of the final times we speak in this parliament, i wanted to say that the research activities of the european parliament and the people involved with me over the last 20 years in producing original research for legislation have been phenomenal. i want to particularly thank the following for their innovation and research: susan kerr, ben harnwell, rhiannon price, daniel hamilton, ingrid grosu, lin gai, liakath kabir, armen andonian, edward robinson and daniel howard. they have made a significant contribution to the work of this parliament in the last 20 years working with me.
mr president, where do we get this idea that politicians and officials are best placed to decide where research spending should go? i was a journalist before i was elected here, and i was always getting bumf from people promoting this or that government programme, and i can’t in honesty remember any of them that actually yielded results. if we think of the great tech breakthroughs that we’ve had, the things that have transformed people’s lives – the american tech giants, the mobile phone breakthroughs, the search engines and so on – none of them depended on government grants, any more than did the people who made the industrial revolution in the first place. we’ve got locked into this rather sad circle where we ask recipients of this money whether it’s a good idea. well of course they’re going to say it’s a good idea: by definition, they are the beneficiaries. but is this really the best way with a limited budget to be deploying it? i’m all in favour of spending money on education – there are some things, obviously, we should do collectively – but when i hear members of this house suggesting that success is measured by the size of the budget rather than by any real world output, i wonder whether we have our priorities right.
mr president, this is my last speech in the session. i wanted just to take the opportunity to say thank you to you and to your staff and to the interpreters for their assistance over this session, and to record my frustration at the extraordinary fact that, three years after the brexit referendum, two years after an election in which 85% of mps were returned promising to uphold its result, britain now faces the farcical absurdity of another european election.
mr president, one of the biggest issues in consumer protection today is secondary ticketing. it is simply unfair when genuine fans cannot get tickets at their face value because internet bots buy them up for resale at dramatically inflated prices. so whilst action on this at member state level is important and welcome – and i pay tribute to campaigners in the uk who’ve long championed the need for new laws on this – we also need a coordinated response at european level, not least because one way that this problem must be addressed is by introducing measures which would prevent secondary ticket sites being profiled as the first result in search engines like google. just this morning, searching across a number of different artists, viagogo came up as a first result on google every single time over the official sites selling those tickets. so i call on the european union, through the commission and this parliament, to address this and ensure fans across europe get a fairer deal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the european union in its futile attempt to deal with a migration policy which is completely incoherent is just about to commit eur 11 billion. last month, frans timmermans stated here that europe is no longer experiencing the migration crisis of 2015 and 2016. little did he know that only this week the libyan prime minister would announce that a minimum of 800 000 migrants are well placed to arrive in the european continent. so what have we got? we have got 11 billion, we’ve got 10 000 border guards and yet, quite simply, the people traffickers haven’t given up. spain’s got its problems and the united kingdom’s got its problems across the channel. now, only the 100% withdrawal of the message of open europe instigated by ms merkel is going to bring a halt to this problem.
mr president, may i begin by expressing my regret that on such an important issue as this, where thousands of lives and billions of euros are involved, colleagues in this, the european union debating chamber, have refused to debate and take questions. but, having said that, surely the solution to this is simply the rule of law. if people seek to enter the european union illegally there should be a very firm and stern rule saying: i’m sorry, but you must be sent back. however, on the other hand to that, there must be a defined legal route for people to claim asylum because all civilised nations accept the right to asylum for those who are being persecuted. so the rule of law is the solution to this. i question whether eur 11 billion and extra resources, powers and red tape is necessarily going to help when simply applying the law would be far better.
mr president, over the past five years, i have sought to learn about the migration and refugee experience directly from those affected. i’ve spent time in calais and on the streets of paris. i’ve worked with ngos and taken every opportunity to listen to people who have been forced to migrate because of conflict and unsustainable lives. we have a tragic situation whereby people are willing to risk drowning in our seas in order to start new lives here in europe. so there are elements of this regulation that i welcome. i’m glad that the european border and coast guard agency will conduct searches to prevent people drowning. those who are rescued must then be treated with empathy and humanity, and i particularly welcome the commitment to fundamental rights when working with third countries. however, more than managing borders and documenting migration, we should take responsibility for and tackle the inequality and deprivation that forces so many to abandon their homes and risk dangerous journeys. we must uphold european values, protect the vulnerable and ensure our communities welcome those who, in a different moment of history, could, indeed, be us.
mr president, the widely accepted definition of a state is a political entity having monopoly control over a set border and the territory within. this report on eu visas is another example where the eu desperately tries to pass itself off as a state. it does it when it legislates on fishing. with the passage of the lisbon treaty, it has done it on international affairs, and now it does it on border policy. a simple trading bloc it is not. where it says ‘harmonisation’, it really means ‘centralisation’, one—size—fits—all and, sadly, there is no more subsidiarity. the eu’s track record on border mismanagement should give member states pause for thought. what is given to the eu is seldom given back, and we in the uk are finding that out. visa requirements should be a competence of member states, not the european union. this report politicises visas and attempts to bribe or threaten selected third countries to take back illegal immigrants, or their own citizens will face higher fees as a result. these, we might add, are people the eu called to europe at the beginning of the so—called refugee crisis and the waves of illegal immigration coming to europe’s shores. the eu is trying to dig its way out of the hole it dug itself. well, keep on digging. you’ll see where it gets you.
mr president, thank you very much for your sensitive handling of this session. it was not so much about the visa code as goodbye from many colleagues. but, on the visa code, let me thank the rapporteur for this ambitious agreement to modernise and simplify the procedure for obtaining short-term visas, on which many colleagues have commented. may i also just do what other colleagues have done, with your indulgence. this is my last speech as chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i wasn’t going to do this – i promised that i wasn’t – but i did notice there are many colleagues here from libe and, after hearing mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, there is one particular thing that i wanted to say to them, which is that, if you’re reading the voting list, you’ll see one report after another from our committee. what you have seen in colleagues who are assembled here are experts on schengen, visas, borders and dublin – ms wikström is scribbling away – and on the asylum package, and, while you see many reports being voted on – you can thank commissioner avramopoulos – you will see that many of our reports are frozen and blocked. this is because we are something of an extraordinary committee, the most prolific legislative committee in parliament at the moment, but we are dealing with some of the toughest issues because we are dealing with a very tough political climate. i want to thank from the bottom of my heart all of the members of the libe committee who i’ve had the privilege to work with. they have been producing high-quality legislation. it is my greatest hope that, in the next term, this legislation will be unfrozen, and that the member states will understand what has been produced in this parliament – the quality of the legislation, the vision that has been produced – and understand that this european parliament is not a rubber stamp. it is full of high-quality legislators who had vision and passion. it’s been my absolute privilege to work with them and to learn from them, and i will never forget this experience. (applause)
mr president, unfortunately, this proposal is another attack on the rights and safety of migrants and vulnerable persons. many of the so-called progressives have bowed to the pressure of the far right, happy to castigate vulnerable persons as security threats in order to put up barbed wire, harden the borders and keep people out of fortress europe. yet the eu defends the position whereby wealthy nationals of third countries purchase golden visas whilst western military intervention creates refugees who don’t have access to humanitarian visas. worse still, refugees are horse-traded with third countries, some with shameful human rights records, in order to speed up returns, as if they were unwanted produce, not people. this is just another example of exporting the eu’s humanitarian obligations to help all of those who are most vulnerable, regardless of nationality or economic status. no human being is illegal.
mr president, i hate to be the one, after this atmosphere of backslapping and everyone being so nice to each other as you’re all leaving public service, to pop the bubble of joy and harmony, but i’m going to do it. visas are the responsibility of nation states. they are not the responsibility of an overriding, over—powerful superstate. this is yet another example of over—centralising, too much power going to the middle, which damages the individual nation states. people in greece need different people coming than people in germany, in france. we’re all different, thank god, and long may that remain the same. so, i wish you all well, those of you who are leaving. i think you’ve given a lot of your life to this project. sadly, much of that, i think, has been misguided and this most certainly is one of the worst ideas i’ve heard here.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i’d like to extend my gratitude to mr grzyb and to the commissioner and to the council team, who regrettably are not here, on the excellent work we’ve done together. mr grzyb, you are a very fair rapporteur, and i mean that most sincerely. you have conducted the negotiations between the different groups very well, and i congratulate you on having done so. this file is a really good example of the kind of things that we were elected here to do – to up the ambition when it comes to tackling climate change, to increase the action that we take when it comes to cleaning up the vehicles that are on our roads, which are the single leading contributor not only to co2 emissions but to the poor quality air that we see in far too many of our cities, and that is affecting far too many of our citizens. public procurement alone accounts for some 14% of the gdp of the union and 75% of new bus registrations. it is a great and noble thing at that we will be coming together here to provide money for clean vehicles that will deliver public goods and help member states achieve the climate and energy targets. by 2030, 65% of buses will have to be clean as defined under the directive. it is now up to the commission and member state governments to ensure that local authorities are given the sufficient means. but i have to say, in response to my colleagues in the epp, we need this ambition. we cannot simply sit back and hope that things will somehow evolve over time and that we will get there in the end. we have to take the tough decisions now. we are seeing protests, not just in some member states, but in all member states, by young people, by concerned citizens. we have to take that action now and that’s why i’m very proud that we have done so. but i must also say it is parliament and it is the cities that always want the more ambition and it is the member states that always push back. this is the lesson of my five years in this parliament, i very much hope i will return to this parliament, being a brit, that’s a slightly precarious situation. who knows? but let me just say thank you to everyone that i’ve worked with here. if this is my last speech in this plenary, you are all wonderful and you come here to do the right thing and i’m very, very pleased to have learned so much from you and i hope to come back to learn even more.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, in order to protect and defend so—called european citizens, the juncker commission is willing to finance defence projects worth over eur 13 billion: drone technology, satellite communication, early warning systems, maritime surveillance. the eu keeps evolving towards a totalitarian union and eventually towards a military one. the eu commission is trying to present this evolving project under a peace perspective, but it is clear that the eu and its supporters have in mind an eu army. french president emmanuel macron recently encouraged the creation of a european army to defend europe. how can anyone think to create a federal military project that involves 27 nations and 24 languages? like our great former prime minister margaret thatcher used to say, you have no source of money other than the money people themselves earn. in a moment when the euro is in crisis and there need to be tax cuts to encourage growth, europe should worry about major citizens’ concerns, such as industry’s lack of competitiveness, carbon leakage and unemployment. a pan-european army would be the ultimate eu disaster. unlike russia or the us, europe is not a unitary actor. also recent historical events, such as, of course, the vote for brexit and the elected anti—eu government in italy, would discourage federalist integration. i find it utterly unreal how a bunch of unelected bureaucrats are making decisions about defence, about war and peace. my colleagues and i are strongly against the creation of an eu army and we hope that member states will soon realise that giving more power to the unelected eu commission in brussels in the defence field is a mistake. in conclusion, as my final speech in this parliamentary session, i implore you to move away from creating this european superstate, including an eu army. no good will ever come of it and i hope the meps elected for the new parliament will start to reverse this and respect the nation state and democracy.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, well if proof was ever needed that the eu parliament is merely window—dressing for the so-called eu democracy, we have it here. if democracy is going to be meaningful then the elected representatives, the meps, my colleagues here in the chamber must be allowed to call into question anything that reasonably affects those they represent. the right of inquiry should have legal standing, or else what is the point? it demonstrates that this chamber is nothing more than a puppet for those unelected officials in the commission and the council if that legal standing is not recognised and allowed to happen. it disturbs me but does not surprise me that the council and the commission are acting in an obstructive manner when it comes to transparency here in the european parliament. now if the european union wonders why populace and eurosceptics flourish, you have your answer before you. this is a major failing in democratic process.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this will be the last time that i ever speak in the european parliament; i’m not seeking re-election. i was elected in 2014 on a brexit mandate and we won the 2014 european elections. i’ve tried my best to remain true to that mandate. the 2015 general election in the uk mandated a referendum on brexit. the 2016 referendum mandated brexit, and the 2017 general election confirmed it. four times the british people have made their views crystal clear. so i find it somewhat surreal that three years on we are discussing the investeu project, another eur 40 billion in taxpayers’ money and another eur 500 million on top for the technical side, and yet we still do not know whether or not the uk will end up being part of the next mmf, the next seven-year financial plan for the european union. it can’t be guaranteed – 29 march, 12 april, 30 june, 31 october? – and for that, frankly, i do blame the intransigence of the british government. and so tomorrow this house will rise for the european elections. the british people have told their politicians four times already to leave the european union, and on 23 may they’ll tell them a fifth time. that’s why the brexit party is surging in the polls. i’ll finish with frank sinatra’s famous words: ‘and now, the end is near. and so i face the final curtain’. but as that curtain draws, we need only to be able to say this: that we didn’t do it ‘our way’, i didn’t do it ‘my way’, but that we did it the way that our constituents told us to, and that is what future politicians must, and should, do.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i’m actually speaking today on behalf of mr gieseke, who is not able to be with us. but i would like, on behalf of the ppe group, to broadly support the motion that parliament is putting forward. we are in line with the objective of formulating a comprehensive eu framework on endocrine disruptors. the motion highlights a number of areas where work is required and i guess if this was a school report, it would have some phrases such as ‘must work a little bit harder’. we certainly need the pace of investigation and validation of data to be speeded up and, whilst i appreciate the commissioner’s points about the fitness check and i wholeheartedly support them, we are concerned about speed and we are concerned about making sure that we don’t let this particular issue slip. there needs to be investment in the whole issue of substances (we have highlighted that in parliament’s text), substances used in mixtures and their joint and several effects. there is broad consensus on that. it’s been customary this week for members to use their last speech in this chamber and we’ve heard an awful lot of ‘this will be my last speech’. well, i’d like to just go to that theme for a moment because for me, as a british mep, i want to just mention one thing about brexit and how it relates to this subject because brexit has taught me a lot. it’s taught me never to pursue with blinkers on anything that’s ideological. be very careful with decisions based on emotion, on gut feel, on belief. be very careful about creating acts of faith, as opposed to action based on evidence. it can lead to disproportionate and damaging action that later causes regret and difficulties finding a way back. what’s that got to do with endocrine disruptors? well, i think rather a lot because we do hear quite a lot of what i would call ideological hysteria about endocrine disruptors. i’m thinking here about amendment 1, which is a good example. we will not be supporting it in the ppe. it calls for the same actions for suspected endocrine disruptors as for proven endocrine disruptors. this goes too far, it goes too quickly and it’s not based on scientific evidence. secondly, on brexit, we were told not to listen to experts. well, on endocrine disruptors we must. we must look carefully at the scientific criteria and evaluate in a calm and systematic way. broadly, we can support this statement. we do not support the amendments and we look forward in the next mandate to moving forward on this subject.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i appreciate the importance of this report in ensuring that reporting issues are streamlined. i am certainly pleased to see that the burden of red tape is finally being cut in the eu. however, my concern is the storage of data and the monitoring of its continued use. the eu is only as strong as its weakest link. the uniform transmission of data is not something that i could see as being beneficial to the uk ports, where the majority of uk ports are actually privately owned. on a personal note, this may well be my last speech here in the chamber. i’d like to take this opportunity to thank the entire parliament staff, including the ever-patient drivers, who have been polite and extremely helpful throughout my time here. thank you so much. i will always defend the right of those of you who wish to support the eu vision, if that is the desire of your country. i know many of you have struggled to understand why the uk wants to leave the european project. i will only say this: you should listen and find a way to communicate and be good neighbours, as the brexit party is already leading in the polls.
mr president, i have been asked recently by various operators whether this idea, which i believe is correct, could be turned into a position where the administration is made even more difficult. that's why i'm here, to applaud the idea. the single maritime portal certainly makes sense, it is an area where it makes sense to harmonise, because there will be clear, uniform requirements for shipping companies. on the other hand, i'd like to ask you, commissioner, they say in the czech republic that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i would urge that the subsequent implementation of this maritime portal does not lead to the shipping companies being overwhelmed by more and more bureaucracy. if we do that and if it leads to the unification of the requirements for carriers, and if those requirements are not excessive, which is the intention and is written in the regulation, then i think that is the right way, that harmonization at european level makes sense here and leads to better conditions for carriers.
mr president, five years after i came here, there is a perfect symmetry. we started listening to arguments about more homogenisation and bringing things together, and in almost my last speech here, we are hearing more of the same. whilst i understand this – as i’ve stated many a time before – i do think there is something special about uniquely-different places having different rules. i also think the idea of new regulation to get rid of less paperwork is a uniquely eu idea, but maybe it will work. whilst things here for five years haven’t really changed and there’s been a consistency outside of these walls, a wind of change is blowing all across europe. i think it’s important to be mindful that while it doesn’t change in here, this wind is blowing in these coming elections. whilst i may not be back, it may well bring some very different people here and different arguments.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the commission brought forward this proposal in march last year. this disclosure regulation is a key element of the commission action plan on sustainable finance and it is an important capital markets union initiative to achieve climate neutrality by 2015. it is also a very important step towards the overall objective that you just mentioned of connecting finance with the needs of a more sustainable economy. our consultations showed that there is not enough transparency on how financial market participants integrate in their policies the negative impact of climate change and its related risks on the value of the investments, for example in assets located in flood—prone areas. this can lead to distortions in the investment decision process and savings allocation. in europe, we’re facing a yearly investment gap of eur 180 billion to reach our climate and energy goals. this goes up to eur 270 billion if we include water and resource management. the commission has proposed to devote a quarter of the eu’s budget to climate-related action as of 2021, but public spending is not enough. the private sector has a key role to play in reorienting capital flows towards sustainable investments and reversing the negative effects of climate change. the negotiations broadly kept the commission’s approach and added disclosure obligations on adverse sustainability impacts. the reason is that investment decisions and financial advice might contribute to negative material effects on environment and society, regardless of whether the investment strategy pursues a sustainable objective or not. for example, investments in assets that pollute water or devastate biodiversity. we support this extension, which represents an important improvement of the proposal as it would achieve more transparency and better information to end users on all types of financial products concerning sustainability aspects. this agreement will increase the level and quality of information available on sustainability issues. it will also promote market discipline, discouraging greenwashing. we believe that it will bring behavioural changes in the financial markets to support the transition to a more sustainable economy. how? first, financial entities will be incentivised to better manage sustainability risks. second, better information on the sustainability of financial products and in financial advice will encourage a shift in retail investors’ behaviour. finally, the disclosure on the negative externalities on environment and society will gradually contribute to price in these externalities. the commission thanks the co-legislators for having taken up discussions quickly and for having achieved an agreement, and i want to congratulate in particular the rapporteur, mr tang, for steering this debate towards a very successful conclusion. this is not the last step as the commission is working with the co-legislators on the remaining part of the may package proposal on climate taxonomy and on the implementation of the other actions part of the sustainable financial action plan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, matt is very welcome to join. it was a joy to hear the global climate hero, greta thunberg, speak here on tuesday. she was electrifying. but she also condemned the hypocrisy of politicians who express concern about the climate while voting against action. although it has been a political battle to make the progress we have, i hope she would be pleased by the eu’s agenda on sustainable finance, one of the most important tools to ensure the promise of systemic change to halt climate breakdown. i’m proud that, once again, the eu leads the world on environmental standards; this time by agreeing the world’s first mandatory disclosure regime for a major financial market. citizens should expect the same transparency when buying financial products as when we buy food. when people found horsemeat in their lasagne, it was a scandal, but we have not had the right to know whether our pension fund was invested in a windfarm or cutting down a rainforest to plant a palm oil plantation. i deeply regret that the council did not match parliament’s level of ambition and continued to insist that some of the sustainability risks and impacts of investments can be concealed from citizens. the inclusion of a regrettable comply and explain exemption means that companies can continue to choose to hide dirty and destructive investments, thus undermining the power of the sustainable finance agenda. with thousands of climate demonstrators out on our streets, we call on our parliamentary colleagues and member states to listen to the will of the citizens, calling for a truly sustainable transition and to use our financial system to facilitate this.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as this actually now is my last speech, i’m going to dispense with the formality and say i think probably combining politics with finance is not a good idea. you knew i’d say that, so i’ll just get that done. i want to say that it’s been a great honour for the last five years to represent the west midlands, an area that i love, in this place. there’s been some good debates, there’s been people on all sides that i’ve grown to respect, and i hope that everybody goes forward from here and thrives and does well – all of your independent nation, individual nations, all of you as people, i wish you all greater freedom and i wish you all happiness. and i want to take this moment if i may, just to say that it’s been a bumpy old ride for me particularly; i’ve found it difficult at times but i’ve been very lucky, i’ve had good friends, family and i most particularly want to embarrass by saying my mum and dad are still alive and with us and without their support – they’re my true heroes, and they’ve helped me through these years. it’s been wonderful, all the best to all of you, no matter what political shade you are. i wish you well.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities is not a new phenomenon in china, yet recent reports are so alarming that human rights defenders are comparing the strike hard campaign in xinjiang with the hard—line policies common during the cultural revolution. over a million ethnic kazakhs, uyghurs and other minorities are being forced into re—education camps and placed under surveillance. it is a positive step, however, that eu diplomats in beijing have been invited to visit the xinjiang region. but such a visit would only be meaningful if unfettered access to re—education camps and their inmates were granted. i would also urge the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief to request a visit to the region. in the next mandate, the eu must continue to robustly act to promote full respect for the rule of law and human rights in the people’s republic of china, which under president xi, sadly, seems to have taken a step backwards.
author. – mr president, the response in cameroon to a number of internal and external threats to security is one of an increasingly authoritarian nature, with rights to free speech and assembly currently being severely curtailed. the arrests in january of the opposition leader maurice kamto and some 200 of his party activists, in response to their protesting following the flawed presidential elections of 2018, is the latest incident of concern. kamto remains in detention following charges of insurrection, rebellion and crimes against the nation. whilst cameroon has been an important regional partner in the fight against terrorism, particularly boko haram, which has been active in the far north region of the country since 2012, there are many concerns about the misuse of anti-terrorist legislation passed in 2014. reports regarding the extrajudicial killing of allegedly former members of the terrorist organisation and the activities of vigilante groups suggests also that a growing number of innocent civilians are in danger of being targeted. meanwhile, the government’s response to the protests of its anglophone majority in the north—west and south—west regions is also of grave concern.
author. – mr president, the introduction in brunei of a revised penal code on 3 april is a deeply regrettable development. the new code widens the number of crimes that can now be punishable by death to include consensual same-sex acts, extramarital sex, abortion and the insult or defamation of the prophet. these measures form part of a reform process started in 2014 that brings the sultan’s criminal code fully in line with sharia law. these reforms also allow for the amputation of limbs as a punishment for those convicted of stealing. these reforms are of particular concern to religious minorities, and the lgbti community in brunei will find themselves particularly at risk. clearly, there is no place for such a harsh penal system in the modern world and it fails to respect brunei’s international human rights commitments. as an mep for the uk, i’m particularly concerned to see these developments taking place in a fellow commonwealth country. this, sadly, is possibly my last speech ever as an mep, and i say goodbye, after 20 years of service as a parliamentarian. it’s been a great honour and pleasure to serve in this house, and i say thank you, and a possible goodbye. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, no one should face persecution or discrimination because of who they are and whom they love. however, as we’ve heard, on 3 april brunei implemented sharia law, including death by stoning, amputation of limbs and other forms of corporal and capital punishment. these laws didn’t come about because there was a public demand for them but because the regime is unpopular. its economy is failing. these measures were there to distract from the real issues affecting the people of brunei. therefore, it is critical that the european union takes effective measures that condemn these barbarous practices, including a targeted visa ban for the regime and even sanctions against businesses owned by the sultan. our objective must be to ensure that these draconian measures aren’t implemented, and that can only happen if there is international condemnation, but also through political dialogue with stakeholders both inside and outside. high representative, we need to stop being appalled. we need to act on these urgently. and finally, can i just say also to colleagues that this may be my last speech and i’d like to thank everybody for their cooperation.
mr president, when i was elected in 2014, i decided to be a voice for people who did not have a voice and here i am again speaking up, using this extraordinary platform that we have to stand up for human rights at a global level. i was shocked to hear that the sultan of brunei decided to impose the death penalty for homosexuality and adultery. the death penalty is always unacceptable and we must fight it under all circumstances, but this situation is particularly grave as it is anti-women and there is gender bias, which denies individuals the right to be themselves and to love who they naturally love. when we talk about sexism and homophobia here in europe, we must remember that every act of discrimination, even if it seems minor, contributes to a global climate of hate that leads to the death of many people either by mob violence or at the hand of the state. in the eu and everywhere we must continue fighting against the discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation. i call on the high representative to use all diplomatic channels to urge the authorities of brunei to withdraw these new medieval laws and work towards ending capital punishment in that country and elsewhere.
mr president, when this measure was first mooted, i was really unhappy with it. as is so often typical of this place, it was talking about more centralisation, more control, more rigid enforcement of rules from the centre. and in particular, in this case, it was placing massive emphasis on electrical vehicles as a way to reduce emissions. but if the green economy has taught us anything, it’s that we don’t know how the technology is going to develop, and for politicians to be sitting here to try and dictate how technology and how the industry should develop is absolutely nonsensical. so, i’m very pleased that after a lot of hard work with the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, we’ve managed to get this to be a much more flexible arrangement, we are placing less emphasis on just electrical vehicles, and we are going to allow technology to develop – quite right too.
mr president, thank you for calling me to speak on this issue. i think this is very important. it is absolutely crucial that companies that wish to trade across borders, and wish to do so on the internet or wish to do so electronically, are free to do so without restriction and without people trying to stop international competition. in the publishing industry where i come from, we publish a lot of e-books. they are for sale in most countries; anybody can go and download them; the payments are then processed, and things can carry on. so this measure, which makes it easier for companies to set up remotely and to do trade on the internet is important – particularly, i think, removing the necessity that some have to actually physically go to another country. the whole point of the internet is that you can do it remotely.
mr president, once again, i raise to talk about the need for international trade and how to make that freer. once again, this particular message – i’m delighted to say – is making it easier to do so. again, when this measure first came, we were talking about putting all sorts of restrictions on companies so that they would have to prove that they weren’t doing all sorts of things before they could go ahead. with this, i’m delighted to say that that is no longer the case. it is a big step forward for international trade within the european union. international trade boosts the economy, helps employment, and indeed helps understanding between the nations – and that has got to be a good thing.
mr president, i think i’m the last brit to speak in the chamber at this session, but now i think perhaps not the last ever, happily. the financial sector cannot just be about making profits for the few and ignoring the consequences for everyone else and our planet. as a labour mep, i want the money that banks, insurance companies and pension funds invest to help create a more just society. today’s vote is an essential part in our efforts to connect finance with the sustainable development agenda. it is in everyone’s long-term interests. a polluting fossil fuel is not a durable and stable investment, neither is ignoring health and safety, nor is using child labour. today, we introduce new rules on how big banks and insurance companies need to not only consider the financial returns on investments, but also their effects on the environment, and issues such as the gender pay gap and stamping out corruption. working together, we are building a fairer europe for the many, not the few.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming two thirds of the members who are here for the first time. i was very moved ten years ago when i sat in this chamber, by the feeling of representing collectively 500 million european citizens. so, on a global scale, it is relatively modest - 7 percent - but it is the first time that humanity has tried transnational democracy. on 26 may, 200 million europeans took part in the elections for our parliament, the very seat of this first transnational democracy. in the wake of the elections, and in response to the unprecedented mobilisation of citizens, i began to dream that political groups resolutely committed to the construction of europe were deciding to forge a project contract together. the aim of this change project is to find a broad and stable majority in this house to respond jointly to the triple environmental, social and democratic emergency and thus demonstrate that the european union is working for the benefit of all. this agreement on a project contract would have allowed the groups involved to designate a person directly from the elections to represent him as president of the european commission. a solid and coherent project, a credible personality to embody it, all supported by a large majority, including the political forces that won the elections. in the face of this, the european council would have had no choice but to accept, at the risk, otherwise, of facing a fruitless confrontation with parliament, a confrontation from which it would not have emerged victorious. in such a scenario, the european parliament would have affirmed its capacity as the primary democratic expression of the citizens of the union as never before. it would also have been an answer to the disillusionment with politics. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what the situation could have been at the opening of our first plenary session. this is the scenario that the greens/european free alliance group has been preparing for for several months. it is to this end that we have made a full commitment in the past few weeks. it was a huge challenge and we had very little time, but where there is a will, as you know, there is a way. it is here, in the european parliament, that this will has been lacking. a majority of this parliament has in fact chosen a path which will inevitably lead it to become the executor of decisions taken elsewhere, in the european council, unless of course the martial expressions which i have heard on my left and right are translated into action, but let me at least at this stage doubt it. a european council, five days of low-key negotiations in which partisan and nationalist logic took precedence over the project and its implementation. all to produce a cast that we can doubt has the ability to drive the change our societies need and our fellow citizens expect. and if it is legitimate - and i have heard it often in this house - to criticise the heads of state and government, i would like to say to all of you that if parliament emerges from this episode weakened, it must first and foremost take the blame for it. i would like to thank president tusk here for the kind words he has addressed in a rather explicit way to the political family which i have the honour of addressing here in the council. i believe your words are sincere, but i must say that around the council table - or i would even say here in this chamber - the desire to involve the political ecology family in the management of the next five years does not seem to be uniformly shared and i think that is an understatement. but all this does not dampen our enthusiasm, and with the renewed confidence of our fellow citizens, we will not give up. over the next five years, we will use the leverage of our 75 members and our teams to advance the cause of a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe. a europe at the forefront of the fight to preserve our climate, biodiversity and natural resources; a europe that champions the fight for social, fiscal, economic and gender justice; a europe at the forefront of defending human rights freedoms and an ever more participatory democracy. in short, a europe that puts the dignity of all human beings at the centre of these policies rather than the maximisation of profit for a few. this cause -- and i've heard some of you say this -- is not monopolized, it's shared. we will act together with all those within this institution, the other european institutions, the member states, national, regional and local governments and above all civil society, with all those who share this cause. make no mistake, my dear colleagues, our house is on fire. in the face of the triple emergency of environmental, social and democratic change, only such an alliance for change can save us. (applause) i would like to thank
in the name of the id group. mr president, mr tusk, ladies and gentlemen, once again the european institutions have offered a show unworthy of the citizens. those who had the slightest hope of a change in methods and programmes after the election campaign, after the elections of 26 may, were disappointed. the spectacle that has been offered and the interinstitutional clash that we have seen taking place in these days is something that the european citizens will really not be able to understand. the council has decided to throw out a questionable method which parliament has tried to defend, that of the leading candidate (spitzencandidaten) and today parliament and the parliamentary groups complain that there has been no respect in the package agreed between the heads of state and government. and here, too, you demonstrate your hypocrisy and your lack of consistency in following up with words. if parliament really wants to be respected, if parliament, or the majority in parliament, really wants to defend the method of the leading candidate, then words can make facts follow. if you really want to be consistent, you can vote against the candidate the council has proposed for the presidency of the commission. if you make a gesture like that, you can be considered consistent. otherwise, as you have always and often shown, your words will be nothing but a windfall, proving once again that this institution is worthless and has no say in european decisions. as regards the package proposed by the council - and we are of course waiting for the outline of the programme - the assumptions, as i have already said, do not suggest a major change, as the european citizens asked us to do on 26 may. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic crisis: europe is the continent with the lowest growth rate today. it is a continent that is lagging behind and this is the consequence of bad choices made by these institutions, which have not only failed to help the citizens, but have very often made the problems worse. the issue of internal security: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. today our citizens are unable to walk around our safe cities and these institutions have not been able to give an answer. and the third point is about managing migration flows: until we are able to protect our external borders, until we are able to protect our citizens, these institutions will not only never agree on how to redistribute who has the right to enter europe, but the risk is that this continent will be overwhelmed by migratory flows that are not sustainable. as for what the identity and democracy group will do in the coming years, despite the fact that this majority or the majority that will come has decided, once again, to demonstrate that this institution is not a democratic institution, by excluding those who represent almost 20% of the members of this house, we will continue to work to combat a vision of a failed europe, to combat centralisation in brussels and to establish that if europe wants to save itself, it must start again from the member states, from the nation-states, which are the only space of true democracy. we will continue to work to challenge the rhetoric of tina (there is no alternative), the rhetoric you propose every time to solve europe's problems, namely giving more and more power to bureaucrats who are far from the citizens. no, this is not the europe the citizens want. this is not the europe we want and if you continue in this direction, europe is in serious danger of disintegrating. the differences between the member states and between the institutions continue to grow and we are not going in any direction. the identity and democracy group will start from this vision: a europe where the member states lead european cooperation and protect the diversity you want to uphold by law. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, congratulations and all the best. i think the most obvious conclusion that comes from the last council is that the spitzenkandidaten mechanism is dead. it is dead and gone. it’s even more dead than the parrot in the monty python sketch. i’m not sorry that it is dead because, look, there is nothing about spitzenkandidat in the treaties. not a single sentence, not a single word, nothing. i know of course that the attitude of many people in european politics, including this chamber, towards the rules and the treaties has been consistently cavalier, to say the least. mr timmermans was not a candidate of the people, of the european people. mr timmermans was a candidate of the left-wing political establishment and it is good that he has gone. and i hope he will not return, because essentially the spitzenkandidat process was to conserve the power of the existing political establishment in europe, not to open the political space for the people. far from it. on the contrary. we have problems with rules all the time, and the european parliament has had consistent problems with respecting the rules. yesterday we had a lamentable spectacle which showed how a lot of people here are openly disdainful of the rules. president tusk, of course the council has no right whatsoever to indicate the vice-president of the commission – that is a blatant violation of the treaty. it is the sole discretionary power of the president of the commission. so, as i say, the council is not blameless either. but there is good news, i think. the good news from the last council is that the eu big guys failed to achieve what they wanted – they wanted to impose their own concept, their own power structure, on the rest of the member states, with the expectation that it would be humbly accepted. well it was not, and i hope that some lessons were drawn from that and that it will result in a change of practice. the days when two or three governments and their acolytes could dictate the solutions – even the names – to the entire european continent, are gone. what i am worried about when i hear my predecessor here is that you, ladies and gentlemen, don’t seem to draw any lessons from what happened in the elections. you seem to be determined to continue the same strategy. the number of people who are openly critical of this strategy is increasing. there are more people critical of the strategy now than there were five years ago. and the number is continuing to rise. yet you seem to be blind and deaf – you don’t hear any warning signals, but you should, because if you do not change course then the consequences will be disastrous. as i said, there is a slight signal from the last council that things might get better – at least i was hopeful of that – but i lost a lot of hope when i came here and listened to what most of you have said. however, when the milk is spilt please remember that i warned you. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate you again on your election, mr sassoli. we expect nothing less from you than to be a president who stands for transparency, for non-partisanship and who also knows how to defend the rights of parliament vis-à-vis the council and also vis-à-vis the commission. which brings me to the real issue: the council, mr president tusk, has now found a solution in the personnel poker, and some colleagues have complained about the result, although their party families were heavily involved. i should like to make it clear that the real scandal is that such solutions are being found in back rooms, that solutions are being worked on in an opaque manner, without involving parliament, and that they are actually making a mockery of democracy in europe. the confidence of the electorate is being betrayed and european democracy is being seriously damaged. (applause from the centre) the people outside the back rooms and also outside the fine restaurants where these conversations are supposed to have taken place get the impression that it is all about the post and not the content anymore. but we, as the left in the european parliament, have been given the mandate by millions of voters to fight for a progressive change of policy here in europe, in the european union. and we're happy to take that assignment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has been raised by the greens, the social democrats, the liberals and the conservatives. i think that minimal consensus is not up to the political challenges of our time. the left group wants to take effective action against the climate emergency. that requires progressive majorities in this house. we want to strengthen social rights in the eu, we want to fight against tax dumping, tax evasion and money laundering. that too requires progressive majorities in this house. and, commissioner, the commission recently celebrated the planned eu-mercosur free trade agreement. i want to tell you that my group finds it totally unacceptable that this agreement should be signed. it cannot be the policy of the european union to throw human rights, social rights and environmental standards overboard for a few euros! and this agreement is also to be signed with the extreme right-wing government in brazil. it is such a policy that makes the extreme right-wingers fit for the party! we are in complete disagreement with that. no one understands that anymore! i call on the members of this house to join us in opposing this proposed free trade agreement. (applause from the centre) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. and yes, we are very happy that in the dispute between captain carola rackete and the self-proclaimed il capitano, it is one to zero for carola. i think it can go on like this. we invite the progressive forces into the house: let us work together to bring about a progressive change of policy for the european union. we, the left group, have announced our programme and we are ready for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have in my hand a copy of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and i invite you all to read it carefully. you will find out how many times this treaty has been betrayed. he was betrayed by denying italy solidarity on migrants. he was betrayed by applying the rules to the letter for some, while turning a blind eye to friends of friends. we are talking about transparency here, and then there are closed meetings in the council. it is a precautionary principle and then it authorizes the use of glyphosate. we are talking about the protection of workers and there is no minimum wage to guarantee the rights of millions of european citizens. the president conte at the last council put his finger on the problem: in europe, the car is there, but the engine jams. you've spent the last few weeks fighting over seats, but i guarantee you the citizens have understood nothing, because you've talked about everything except their problems, the real ones! so let us change the engine of this europe. let's change the rules together. we are giving the european parliament more power in choosing candidates. do as the count commands! don't just take it or leave it. don't be spectators to an opera written elsewhere. we are the most vibrant europe: we are the ones who are legitimized by the popular vote; we are the ones who have the burden of this treaty on our shoulders. let's go back to the basics. let us return to this treaty: more solidarity, more rights, more development, less classrooms, less french-german directors, less arrogance. together we can change this europe. the citizens are asking us to do it.
mr president, it is a great honour to speak on behalf of the largest single party in this place. and may i say that if i needed any convincing at all that the best thing for britain is to leave here as soon as possible it was the way that those elections were conducted yesterday: if that is this place’s idea of democracy, then that is a serious betrayal of every country that is represented here, because it is not democratic at all. and that is just one of many reasons why britain is right to be leaving this place, hopefully at halloween. it is right because there is a pattern consistent throughout history of oppressed people turning on the oppressors, slaves against their owners, the peasantry against the feudal barons, and colonies, mr verhofstadt, against their empires. and that is why britain is leaving. and it doesn’t matter which language you use: we are going, and we are glad to be going. i represent the south west of the united kingdom and i found, on my very first day, that this place has decided – or at least the powers-that-be have decided – actually to increase the size of fishermen’s meshes, thereby reducing their income by 40%. that’s what you do here, that’s why we’re going. nous allons, wir gehen, we’re off! (applause from a section of the house)
mr president, as one of the large new group of british members of the european parliament,(applause)both liberal democrat and green and from other parties, who do not want to turn our backs on europe,(applause)can i tell you, mr president, that what you heard from that back corner does not represent the views of everyone in the united kingdom. (applause)and can i thank you, president tusk, for your patience with our government and national parliament, and can i ask you to ask your successor to continue that policy of time and patience and understanding, even when it appears our government has no plan. mr bean or monty python might have done it better. but brexit is not inevitable. opinion is shifting in britain, otherwise we would not be here,(applause)and those of us who support europe also need europe’s support. (applause)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 4 july 2019.
i have received requests from the epp and ecr groups to change the composition of committees. these appointments will be recorded in the minutes of this sitting. if no comments have been submitted by the time the minutes are adopted, the appointments shall be deemed to be approved. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, you announced the names of a number of members who have already left this parliament. are you sure that shouldn’t have included the entire epp group, who seem to be absent?
i can see his subtle sense of humor.
the final draft agenda, approved by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 11 july 2019, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: monday no changes are proposed. the gue/ngl group called for the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela not to be concluded with a resolution.
mr president, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to reject this suggestion. we can, indeed, in our resolution, take up ongoing discussions and initiatives and welcome them, but we think that the situation is sufficiently dramatic and clear in this regard to enable us to make up our mind at this stage with the resolution we saw earlier. we are aware of the dramatic situation with millions of refugees that have left the country and also destabilising the neighbourhood. i think we can, and must, take a clear position on the situation there.
(parliament rejected the request) i have received a request from the gue/ngl group that the statements by the council and the commission on eu-mercosur relations be added as the third item on the agenda for wednesday afternoon, after the statements by the council and the commission on the clean air zone in european union cities.
mr president, in the name of the european people’s party (epp), i would oppose adding this point to the agenda. the documents are just being published so we want to analyse them carefully. commissioner malmström announced her presence for next week at the committee on international trade (inta) so we would like to reject this addition to the agenda.
chair, european parliament committee on fisheries. – mr president, pursuant to rule 184a, as chair of the committee on fisheries, i want to point out that a british member of this house, robert rowland, last week published the comment that, in the event of brexit, any foreign fishing vessel in british waters should be given the same treatment as the belgrano. mr president, you will know that the ‘general belgrano’ argentinian cruiser was sunk with the loss of more than 300 lives during armed conflict in 1982. i want to point out that, in the uk the national federation of fishermen’s organisations, has strongly denounced these words. sickening though they are, it may be that this comparison and the suggestion that european fishermen could be killed for fishing in waters that they have used for generations will be dismissed as just words and hyperbole, and that free speech matters – and indeed it does. but the history of europe shows that words matter. words can promote friendship and they can foster hatred and division. mr president, i hope you will join me in regretting that someone from my country should have chosen to use these words for the latter purpose. (applause)
thank you, mr davies, we take note of your comments.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak. first of all, in response to the other mep, i’d like to make the following comment: i was responding to the verbal assault which you administered to one of my colleagues, june mummery, after she confronted you outside the committee on fisheries, of which you are chair. you verbally assaulted her, and we are issuing a disciplinary committee warning against you because of that. in regard to my response, it was based on the defence of the british fishing industry, which has been systematically destroyed by the european union’s policy of pulse fishing, and i will do my utmost to defend british fishermen. in terms of the language, it was a tongue-in-cheek comment based on the fact that our industry has been decimated. you should not have taken it literally. of course i’m not implying any form of violence on the high seas, even though we have seen it in 2018 when french and british fishermen did end up with a confrontation on the seas. but i am not suggesting for one minute that british fishermen should engage in any kind of military assault on overseas fishermen. i stand resolutely behind british fishermen and our fishing industry. i will never back down in that quest to defend them. (applause from a section of the house)
mr president, one thing that you can say about the british delegation in this part of the house is that we have a sense of humour and know that free speech matters. it’s outrageous, when there are more important things to do, that this house has been used by one of our so-called colleagues from the uk to make cheap points. there are far more important and serious matters that we need to take up. i defend the right of anyone to say anything, including his right, in fact, to be abusive. free speech matters and liberty matters. you would do well to take notice of us in the brexit party when we say that we’ll defend you. you should stop nit-picking and having a go at us. this house, as much as it is not democratic, has really got better things to do than the internal rows led by the liberal democrats having a go at their colleagues from the uk.
madam president, thank you for helping me with my first speech to this parliament and thank you for giving the floor to a newly elected member unlike any other. i am the french citizen representing scotland in europe. after being a member of the scottish parliament, i am here because of brexit and to demonstrate our commitment to europe. twenty years ago, 20 years ago already, i voted to have the scottish parliament reconvened after a hiatus of over 300 years; a parliament that would never have been able to sit without the help of the european union. it is the european union that has enabled us to have this scottish parliament. you helped us and we haven't forgotten you. in 2016, 62% of the scottish electorate voted to remain in europe, making us one of the most european countries in europe. this is because in scotland we are used to the idea of having multiple identities: i am 100 per cent scottish, i am 100 per cent french and i am 100 per cent european. our idea of europe is your idea of europe: free movement of people, free trade, our common values. we are ready to defend our european identity. help us to remain at the heart of europe, help us to help you better.
in december 2015, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) issued arrest warrants for the lawyers of vojislav šešelj, petr jojić and věříček radet, who are charged with contempt of court on suspicion of threatening, intimidating and attempting to bribe witnesses. the arrest warrants were secretly issued in january 2019, but the serbian authorities did not act on them and the court made them public. official belgrade continues to refuse to execute them on the grounds that this prevents them from the law on cooperation with the hague tribunal, which provides for the obligation to extradite accused of war crimes, but not those accused of contempt of court. a similar argument was previously used by france in the case of florence hartmann. the appeals of serbia against the arrest warrant should be decided by a special appeal board. the question arises as to why serbia has the right to bring an action against this order in the first place. is the secrecy of this official procedure a sign that serbia is once again being overlooked? it is shameful that a state that openly refuses to cooperate fully with the hague tribunal and protects war criminals in the sheepdog case continues to negotiate chapter 23. it says a lot about the european union and its hypocrisy.
madam president, 400 000 people from the east midlands elected me to come here and speak for them. two hundred million people across europe voted for us all to be here. the democratic foundation of the eu is based on us – 751 directly elected meps who represent our voters in this hemicycle, the debating chamber and its replica in brussels. so why are the parliament chambers open less than 60 days a year? last week in brussels our chamber was locked all week. tonight is the only time that meps are allowed to speak freely for the whole of july, and then only some of us have been chosen and we’re only allowed 60 seconds each. no wonder there are so few meps here now. is it the case that there is nothing to speak about? is it the case that our voters don’t want their voices heard? or is the real answer that the people in the commission, in the council, behind the closed doors don’t want to hear what we have to say? sixty days is not enough to hear our voice. sixty seconds is not enough. our voices must be heard. please, madam president, please can we have more parliament?
madam president, along with many colleagues in renew europe, i have thought hard about whether to support ms von der leyen today. the system that has put her in front of us is clearly broken, but i was placed in this chamber by millions of british people who believe in the european union, who demand the best from europe and who want us to stay here. we would be fools to refuse this opportunity. europe needs action, not indecision. but ms von der leyen, i tell you firmly and clearly that my vote does not come cheaply. if i am to support you today this is the price that i ask for your support. you must reform this broken system. you must commit real action, and not just words, to the climate emergency. you must immediately begin reform of the dublin agreement. and ms von der leyen, the price for me will be to use your influence at every table at which you sit to agree a long extension, so that britain may remain part of this european family.
for the greens/efa group mr president, welcome madam prime minister, it is always a pleasure to have a head of state or government here. i insist because i know that there are some in this chamber who would like to discredit the council by saying that the council is not legitimate. you have a certain legitimacy, as do all heads of state and government, but you obviously have a special responsibility when it is your turn to be president. it was the first time for romania and it is true that, in terms of the organisational work, the administrative work, we can pull our hat off: clearly, romania has succeeded in its first term as head of the council. it is true that in an election year, when we know that the pressure to complete a certain number of dossiers is enormous, it is rather a successful performance, i would like to say. now, among these files, there are some that are not among the 90 files that were completed under your presidency and which are emblematic files. the council itself, at each of its meetings, raises the asylum and migration issue as the most important issue, the one that would suffer no delay, no other priority before it. what do i have to find out? for four years now, the council has been saying this, at every summit meeting of heads of state or government: migration, migration, migration, more migration, border, border and what else. we are still waiting for a council position on the reform of asylum and migration, the package proposed years ago by the commission, and on which this parliament has already voted by an overwhelming majority - as i said this morning - of five political groups two years ago. what did you do to make things better? one of the less visible roles of the chairman is to unblock, to put oil in the gears. but no! you simply stated that you decided that the council would decide unanimously, when there is no justification for this, and unanimity obviously means that any member state can block anything. and you can imagine that there is more than one member state that is ready to block everything on this subject. so in this matter, which you yourself say is very important, you do nothing. i didn't say anything. you are like all the other member states: in this respect, none of the 28 is better than the others. then there is the other aspect, which was mentioned by my predecessor, namely reputation. when a state holds the presidency of the european union, it is absolutely crucial that this state, somewhere, embodies, represents the values of the union. what spectacle does your government present us with? i'm talking about your government, not romania. romania, like hungary, like poland, which is often mentioned, like all the countries of the european union, has its place in the european union. nevertheless, the government that is running this country today is a government that has distinguished itself by brutally repressing peaceful protests, last summer - it was certainly not during the presidency but nevertheless in your country, it was your government. it is a government that is almost obsessively working to control the judiciary, obviously to avoid politicians being convicted of corruption and declared ineligible. it seems to absorb most of the political energy of the parties which are now in power in your country. and from this point of view, i note that the many reports made by the council of europe, by the venice commission but also by the council of europe's anti-corruption body, remain dead letters. to top it all off, as my predecessor said, you are allowing yourselves to block the possible appointment of laura codruța kövesi as the head of the european public prosecutor's office, a very important post in the european union, whom we have still not had the opportunity to hear. so no, frankly, the spectacle your government is offering does not honor europe and, i would say, does not honor romania. romania deserves better than that.
on behalf of the id group. madam prime minister, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the romanian presidency i have visited bucharest on several occasions. for the conference of presidents with the council of ministers, of course, in november, but also last april for a debate on the future of europe. each time, we have mentioned the major challenges that europeans and their common civilisation will have to face together, on a continental scale: identity and borders, the relocation of the economy, but also data protection, artificial intelligence, the necessary reindustrialisation and the maintenance of our agricultural fabric. so far, the european union has not been effective or even present on any of these issues. worse still, it is only accelerating in terms of free trade, most recently with latin american countries and vietnam. yet it is the least ecological and most destructive system in our economies. i say this without, of course, blaming the romanian government. it must be said that it has come under fire from the european commission, which is using the rule of law to impose the joint government of technocrats and judges against the will of the people. the reality is that power is now being exercised by the brussels commission, which combines the legislative initiative and the control of the application of directives, but also acts as the guarantor of the treaties. the council presidencies have passed, but the commission, its bureaucrats and its guidelines remain. the best example is mr timmermans, who will no doubt continue to play his role as a zealous 'mouthpiece' against countries that are reluctant to do so in brussels. he who, against hungary, against poland, against romania, tomorrow perhaps against the italy of matteo salvini, in short against nations and peoples, will always be in the forefront of attacking and destabilising governments which have democratic legitimacy. in the recent small-scale arrangements for the distribution of posts at the head of the european institutions, eastern europe has been totally forgotten. merkel's germany is, as always, over-represented, either in person or by her cronies or her stooges. the same people who rushed the enlargement of the european union to the east are now realizing that their liberal-libertarian immigration ideology is not widely shared. having suffered under totalitarian communism, the countries of central and eastern europe still have courageous leaders who refuse to give in to the commission's demands, particularly on the compulsory distribution of migrants. it is on this issue, and especially on the reform of asylum law, which has become a deviant channel of illegal immigration, that the juncker commission has gone off the rails. the dublin iv reform has fortunately been blocked in the council, notably by hungary and poland. if the romanian presidency, juxtaposed with the european elections, was not the occasion for spectacular progress, let us at least acknowledge that it did not amplify or aggravate the current failures and deviations of the european union. the european parliament has also called for the european union to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and for the european union to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the union. the defenders of peoples and nations will therefore be more vigilant than ever to refuse that the european union becomes a machine for destroying europe.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the first romanian presidency of the council came at a challenging time when the european union was preparing for the withdrawal of the united kingdom and awaiting elections to the european parliament. romania has shown that even in such somewhat chaotic circumstances, you can do a good job when you have clear goals and a strategy to achieve them. the romanian presidency will be remembered for a number of important initiatives and some key agreements with the european parliament, such as the gas directive, the digital europe programme, the first european union space programme, the first co2 emission standards for trucks or the european coast and border guard initiative. while more could be done in some areas, such as migration and asylum policy, the romanian presidency should serve as an example that new members also play an important and constructive role in this community. unfortunately, those who should have, did not see in the romanian example an opportunity to rebuild trust between east and west, old and new members, but in choosing new leaders, the eu institutions further marginalized the european east and the new members. it's a bad message for mostly young democracies that are struggling to reach the democratic and economic standards of the developed west, while respecting both their own and others' traditions. the new members have thus relegated the eu institutions to second-class status, although recently one of them, romania, has shown that in the new europe there is both the ambition and the know-how to actively contribute to the development of european policies and this community. i fear that this misunderstanding of the young democracies of central and eastern europe, which have had a different development path, is growing year by year. the old members, it's now quite clear, want to assert their dominance in making strategic decisions for europe. we can still learn much from them, but as partners, not masters. the new europe must not accept a vassal relationship. we ask that our identity, our culture, our history and our traditions be respected. we want the european union to finally live up to its slogan 'united in diversity' and to stop pursuing centralisation and uniformity, which leads to intolerance and political conflict, which could be disastrous for the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mrs dancila and mr šefčovič, we are discussing the report of the romanian presidency about two hours before the european parliament votes on the new proposed president of the commission. your presidency has been conducted in a difficult six-month period, with the european elections, with brexit moving from one uncertainty to another and with social and economic problems acute. you have the advantage of having managed to close a number of outstanding files, and this is reflected in the positive aspects of the romanian presidency, but the major issues that concern us as the european union, as the european parliament, and concern the citizens of the member states have remained unresolved. they didn't move. the citizens' demand for a stronger community budget, which supports and does not weaken cohesion policies, has not been met, because regional and social disparities are being exacerbated. the social pillar, which remains a label, mr šefčovič, has not advanced beyond gothenburg without binding policies to put it into practice. there has been no progress towards the discussion and implementation of a european minimum wage throughout the european union. a few hours ago, mrs ursula von der leyen promised it again, but five years ago i heard it from mr juncker, and we are still at ground zero. i do not want to be unfair, but i would like to say that positive steps have been taken, such as the preparation by the council, under the romanian presidency, of sanctions against the turkish leadership's aggression, which is in breach of international law. i am sure that the finnish presidency will continue along this path, because we must uphold european values when they are threatened by the aggressive behaviour of the european union's neighbours. i also think it is positive that in the area of south-eastern europe you have tried to continue the positive example set by the prespes agreement between my country, greece, and north macedonia, and i believe that the new greek government, contrary to what it said during the election campaign, will continue to respect and implement this agreement. i would like to conclude, mrs dăncilă, by making a plea to you, not only on behalf of my political group but also on behalf of many non-governmental organisations, and i know that the commission shares this plea: i ask you to stop now the barbaric transportation, in miserable conditions, of 70,000 sheep from romania to the persian gulf, because this violates every notion of civilization, which must respect both human rights and animal rights.
mr president, we in the brexit party like to expect that we’re going to be making the most unpopular speeches in this place, but i think the contributions from the gentlemen from renew and the greens have set a pretty high bar: trying to tell you, madam prime minister, how you should be running your own country. pretty remarkable. but in the context of the outgoing romanian presidency, i would like to congratulate in particular simona halep on her stunning performance at wimbledon on saturday. it was a performance of poise, power and precision and, most importantly, she will have inspired millions of young girls at home and abroad to participate in sport. collective romanian pride in her performance stems in part because it is a strong expression of identity and nationhood. note i said ‘nationhood’, not ‘nationalism’. i was going to make the point to the lib dems but i note they’re not here. romanian flags flew proudly over the weekend from bucharest to baia mare, but i didn’t hear one rendition of the eu anthem. sport can do more than almost anything else to bring people together. tragically, in contrast, whatever the intentions of the european project, it divides more than it unites. but at the conclusion of the romanian presidency, and coming back to the four pillars, you mentioned, prime minister, let’s judge it against its own priorities. just two. you talked about convergence through economic growth and employment. economic growth in the eu is now at the lowest it is been for the last three years. youth unemployment in romania is 16%; it is 20% in france; 30% in italy and spain; 40% in greece. entire generations of young people, their lives laid waste at the altar of the european ideal. secondly, developing the eu defence capability. so, having refused to pay for its share of european defence, the eu now wants its own army. that can only encourage those who wish to harm us and will undermine the security of europe through nato. for those of you who will remain in this place when the uk leaves very shortly, you may look for more from the finnish presidency, but i suspect that will be a triumph of hope over expectation. so rather than celebrating the efforts of the romanian presidency, let’s celebrate the success of simona halep, a real symbol of romanian pride, a far better use of our time and less damaging to the economy and security of europe.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members of this parliament for highlighting the challenges which we have to confront when we are going to build and strengthen our common and undivided european union. i very much agree with the need to make more progress on our social pillar and i’m sure that the next commission will take very seriously all questions related to the minimum wage or to the improvement of our social standards across the european union, as it was suggested by ms garcía pérez. i would also like to thank the members for highlighting the successes of the romanian presidency, as mr kovatchev did, especially in the listing all the important files which have been concluded thanks to the professionalism of romanian negotiators and romanian diplomats and ministers. i would also like to recognise the good cooperation we had with the romanian presidency in completing and concluding all very important files on better tackling climate change. a lot has been done, in record time. the romanian presidency was starting at the beginning of the very crucial transitional year, where the time for real legislative work was very, very short, but it was well spent, it was done very professionally. for that, i really would like to thank you and highlight the fact that you managed this very demanding work despite the fact that it was your first presidency. i know how much each new member state gains in the form of experience, in the form of establishing good working contacts with other partners in the eu and with european institutions, and therefore i believe that it was not only investment into the future of the european union but it will also translate into even more professional work by the romanian civil service and i’m sure that all that experience and all that work, which was invested in europe, will also be felt back in romania. mr prime minister, thank you very much and congratulations on your excellent first presidency.
the president-in-office of the council. i want to thank everyone for their appreciation. indeed, romania held the rotating presidency at a time of challenges that the european union has not experienced before. i mean the brexit process, i mean the fact that there were the european parliament elections, which made all the work of the rotating presidency take place in the first part, the 100 days. it's true, we would have liked to have closed 100 cases in 100 days. we have only closed ninety, but i think romania has made steps forward and indeed, mr vice-president, for romania it is a cause for celebration. it is a reason for celebration for the whole people, for all those who believe in romania and those who want to represent romania with dignity. it is true that we could have done more, that we would have liked to have done more, but it is not easy to create consensus among 28 member states with different priorities. we know that during the rotating presidency we have to be a very good mediator and a consensus facilitator and i think that is what romania has done and has managed to achieve these results. i am convinced that the new parliament, the european institutions will achieve results in terms of the financial projection. but in this chapter too, romania has made important steps, both in terms of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. projects can go on, but of course, for a project to have the efficiency that we all want, it has to be doubled by a proper financial projection. we have chosen the main theme - cohesion - because we believe that cohesion is needed. we need unity at european union level, because only if we show cohesion can we make important steps and perhaps we can make bigger steps on our own, but i am convinced that we will make solid steps together. that is why i believe that cohesion is very important, not only during the rotating presidency, but that cohesion must guide the actions of the european institutions in the future as well. mr. tudorache, i'm going to answer you specifically. not the officials and diplomats of romania did, they carried out the presidency. the presidency was led by the government of romania. at each meeting, the minister chaired the proceedings, it was a very good cooperation, for which we congratulated our experts, all those who were involved, all those who really acted for romania and not against romania. a few minutes before someone asked me: "do you think romanian meps will be united in bringing a plus image to romania?" and then i said, "yes. i'm leaving disappointed, with people like you, we won't bring a plus to romania. let you solve problems at home, don't bring them to the european parliament, because these things don't bring any added value to our country. moreover, everyone congratulated the romanian presidency. there were also things that some of the meps thought we could do better, but they didn't criticize, and you're not going to see a lot of meps here in parliament criticizing their country. but you did when the vice president of the european commission said that romania had a reason to celebrate. moreover, i want to tell you that the european union, document yourself a little bit ahead, has no competence on health, education and culture. he comes up with projects. so you also talked about three elements that you don't know. and i guess you don't know anything about the achievements of the romanian presidency. you don't know that during the presidency a country can't intervene. it has to be a consensus facilitator. that's what romania has done, and i would have been happy if this project, which is very important for my country, this project, which is very important and very important for all european citizens, had found consensus, because we found consensus in the european commission, we found consensus in the european council, we found consensus among many meps, we found consensus in the president of the european parliament, and we all understood that the european union is at a turning point, and if we don't act together, we won't make any sense of the european construction. we listened to all the advice and together we made these things happen. i think that these should guide us in the next period, to bring added value. the citizens don't need a scandal. citizens need things that help them in their daily lives, policies that are closer to them, not things that we bring into the public space, thinking we have more political significance. mr. lamberts, i'm sorry he left, on the logistical side, i liked this "hat off" i think romania deserves this. for us all the files were important, and with regard to greco, we look at every single point in greco, but i think you have to look at belgium, the country of which it is a part. there are 15 recommendations, of which he has implemented only one. we have to let greco not intervene and let the magistrates intervene. if we really want an independent judiciary, we need the magistrates to find consensus, and not to implement it ourselves. finally, i want to thank you all. i want to thank all those who trusted us, because your trust was not only trust in the romanian government, it was not only trust in our experts, in our diplomats, it was trust in a country that held the presidency of the council of the european union for the first time, a country that took its first exam in this position and which i consider, and i have seen that many of you consider the same, that it passed brilliantly. thank you again for your involvement, for your support, for the way we cooperated. i wish the new parliament success once again and i hope that you will succeed here, in this very important european forum, in which i have been active for nine years, because your success is the success of the whole european construction.
thank you, this discussion is closed. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken, vice-president šefčovič, president dăncilă, all the ministers present and their collaborators, congratulations on your work, on your commitment, and tomorrow we will open a new semester. i thank you, the debate is closed, the sitting is adjourned until 6 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the current european roma strategy has unfortunately not delivered on its promises. the main reason for this is that the commission has not been fully committed to bringing to the attention of the council the very important points without which this strategy cannot succeed: the targets, the legal basis, the sanctioning possibilities. the main problem is that roma are naturally excluded from participating in these programmes, both in their design and implementation. among the groups most at risk are women, children, young people and the less educated. the situation of people living in poverty is deteriorating across europe, with increasing segregation. atrocities against roma are on the rise, as in ukraine and romania. addressing the complex problems of poverty and exclusion can only be achieved through appropriate policy instruments and better use of eu resources. while member states have the resources, expertise and infrastructure, they also need political commitment. it is our collective responsibility to engage the poorest and to begin immediately to provide the poor with clean drinking water, adequate employment, housing and health care.
as you know, the european council has proposed the candidacy of mrs ursula von der leyen for the presidency of the european commission. i would remind you that, in accordance with article 124 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure and in accordance with article 17 (7) of the treaty on european union, parliament elects the president of the commission by a majority of its component members. the vote shall be taken by secret ballot. the instructions for the election of the president of the commission have been distributed to all members. we need eight electors to carry out our voting functions, and then we have to proceed with the extraction. mr. david ivan, would you accept? very well, thank you. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of this. thank you, sir. i am not sure that this is the case. very well, thank you. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you, sir. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the applicant. thank you, sir. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. well, thank you, too.
ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is now resumed. i'll announce the results of the vote: number of voters: 733 is a good number. majority of the members of parliament: 374 is right. the vote was in favour of the following: 383 is a good number. (applause) i would like to thank the vote against: 327 is 327. the following abstentions: 22, blank sheets: 1. the on the basis of these results, the candidate for president of the european commission, proposed by the european council, was then elected by the european parliament. i congratulate mrs ursula von der leyen on her election and wish her all the best for the performance of her mandate. in accordance with rule 124 (3) of the rules of procedure, i shall inform the council and invite the council and the newly elected president of the commission to propose by common accord the candidates for the various posts of commissioner. i shall now sign the letter of notification of parliament's decision. and i'm giving it to the president, since he's here. (applause) mrs von der leyen, on behalf of parliament, i congratulate you on your election as president of the european commission, and on behalf of my colleagues, of course, i congratulate this house. a very important stage for the european institutions is now beginning: we must prepare ourselves for the hearings of the commissioners-designate, which, as you know, will be very scrupulously conducted by the members of this parliament. we expect that the issues you have raised in the house today will be further explored and followed up by your colleagues during the hearings in the relevant committees. the next few years will be very important for the future of the union, and we can only tackle them successfully if there is close cooperation between the european institutions. i would like to ask you to give a message to our assembly.
president-elect of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of this parliament, i feel so honoured and i’m overwhelmed. i thank you for the trust you placed in me. the trust you placed in me is confidence you placed in europe, your confidence in a united and a strong europe, from east to west, from south to north, your confidence in a europe that is ready to fight for the future rather than fighting against each other, your confidence in a europe that will take the big challenges of our times together. the task ahead of us humbles me. it’s a big responsibility and my work starts now. i thank president sassoli, i thank all the group leaders, i thank all the members of parliament who decided to vote for me today, but my message to all of you is: let us work together constructively because the endeavour is a united and a strong europe. thank you very much. (applause)
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the implementation of the eu global strategy (2019/2729 ((rsp)). i therefore give the floor to vice-president/high representative federica mogherini and, as this is the first time i have had the pleasure of presiding over one of her speeches, i congratulate her again and thank her for the excellent work she has done in this mandate, and i also wish her well for the last months of her mandate and for any future commitments. please, high representative.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. thank you. mr president, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to be holding in this chamber, if i understand correctly, the first of the debates of this parliament, after having had the pleasure and honour of holding the last debates of the last parliament. let me start by congratulating you all either for your election or re-election, but also let me start by congratulating the new president-elect of the commission. ursula and i have been working together very well in these last few years, particularly on our common work for the european union's defence. i am sure that the commission will be in good hands. among the things we have worked on together - ursula and i and also the defence and foreign ministers of the member states, some of whom i see are sitting in this house now as members of the european parliament - is the global strategy that we drafted and then put in place three years ago. the global strategy has been the compass of our work in these five years, in these last three years and the preparation and the drafting of it in the previous ones. i want to thank the previous european parliament for its support in drafting the strategy, but most of all in turning this into action. the global strategy was the outcome of a truly collective work with all the 28 member states of the european union and with many members of parliament playing a key role, members of the european parliament, but also members of national parliaments and civil society, think-tanks. it was really a collective work, and it was the opportunity to focus on values and interests, both of them, that we all shared as europeans beyond political families and beyond ideological debates. we agreed that we needed to strengthen and consolidate our role as a global security provider. we agreed that the great challenges of our times require multilateral solutions, and we agreed that europe can only matter and it does matter, it does make a difference in the world if we act as one union. of course there is much more than this in the global strategy and you have probably seen, i hope, the global strategy itself, but also the report that i presented last month to the foreign affairs council after discussing the content of this report with the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and the committee on development (deve) in the previous terms in april. we've put together 50 very dense pages of achievements, and also possible options for the future, and this is the work that i delivered to you for future consideration on how to use the instruments that we've put in place, how to shape the future foreign and security policy of the european union. so there's much more than these three concepts in the global strategy, but let me focus for the moment on these three points: security and defence, multilateralism, and the idea of a more joined-up and more effective. the european union first of all on defense. we have shown that this european union knows how to deliver if there is political will. in some cases we have achieved even more than we hoped and expected in this field. when we started talking about setting up the permanent structural cooperation on defence, many were sceptical, and i remember very well, i discussed this for the very first time during my own hearing five years ago in the joint afet and deve committees. yet, even with all the skepticism and resistance that was there, we did it, and we went even further with the european defence fund and the coordinated annual review on defence. and these are not just names or acronyms. this is real change for our common security. we are helping member states to make their defence spending more efficient and developing all the military capabilities that we need, from the skies to the sea, to cyberspace. our international missions now have better command structures, and we have committed to investing more in our civilian action. that remains the pride of the european union. in short, the european union of security and defence has finally taken its first concrete steps after so many decades, when it was only on paper or not even on paper. at the same time as we strengthened ourselves, we have also strengthened our security and defence cooperation with partners all around the world, starting with nato, but well beyond it. i've just come back from the central african republic, for example, where we're working with the european union, men and women under our flag, alongside the un peacekeepers, and before that, just a few days ago, i was in the sahel, where we were helping the g5 sahel countries to set up their own multinational military force. the second point i would like to stress is multilateralism. europe is a cooperative and multilateral power by definition. it is the very same dna of our european union projects. in years where multilateralism, and also the un system, have come under increasing pressure, we have invested in multilateralism like never before. we have stepped up our financial support to the united nations. for example, one example among many, saving the un agency for palestinian refugees from its funding crisis. we supported the un secretary-general's reform agenda. but let me say, most importantly: we've always worked to find a multilateral solution to the many and difficult problems of our time. so not only are we defending the nuclear deal with iran, promoting the sustainable development goals, implementing the paris agreement on climate change, creating a new generation of free and fair trade agreements, but we've always tried to build a multilateral framework where there was not one. after this debate we will talk about venezuela. in the international contact group the european union has contributed to efforts to resolve the crisis, and i should also mention, as an example, the trilateral cooperation with the un and the african union, the brussels conferences on syria, and the regional meetings that we set up to support peace in afghanistan. these are leading examples of our multilateral approach in concrete terms. and we have not just defended multilateralism. we have done so, but we have also renewed it with innovative new solutions. the third point i would like to stress is the way we work. this was a very important part of the global strategy three years ago and we have done a lot of work to improve the way in which we work inside the european union. here again, i want to thank the european parliament's previous mandates and i am sure you will continue in this way for the support and the contribution to our efforts to increase the coherence and the coordination among and within the institutions of the european union. throughout this work we've been the most successful when we've been united. this was the core idea of the global strategy. a more joined-up union is not just a principled choice, one that follows in the steps of our founding fathers and mothers, a joined-up union is also the best way to make our action more effective. only united do we really matter in the world of today. i often say there are no big and small member states there are member states that are smaller member states that have not yet understood they are small in the world of today we can only be effective if we are united as europeans, and only united can we advance our interests and our values. and when we do so, united, we do make a difference. sometimes a vital one not just for us, but also for our partners all around the world. so in these years we have made a lot of progress, i believe, for example, linking our policies on security and on development, or the internal and external side of our action through a more coordinated work within the commission. thanks to the group we have set up with the commissioners' group on external action which i have convened regularly every month for these five years, and the eu member states, for example, have coordinated as never before in the security council of the united nations, something which seemed impossible just three years ago. our progress in these years on this point has been possible because of a collective political will to move forward, but i want to share this with you. i am very much aware that these achievements, everything that we have achieved in this field, could prove short-lived if political will fades away. and this is the message i deliver to you. results need to be consolidated, and the new possibilities that we have opened in these last three or four years can now be explored and expanded, but this requires unity of purpose, determination and, most of all, political will. the european parliament has been key to this progress. the members of parliament have been very important actors in our foreign policy with their own diplomatic missions, with electoral observation, with the oversight of our policies, with a constant focus on human rights for which i want to thank your predecessors in this chamber. and again, i am sure that you will keep working in this direction. so your role is key. you have the final word on key fundamental issues that affect our foreign and security policy. you will have the final word on the new european union budget. you will contribute to setting the direction of our foreign policy for the years ahead. so the call for a united europe is stronger today than it was five years ago. i believe it will be even more urgent and pressing in the years ahead. the choice and the responsibility are yours, and i am sure you will be able to respond to this call in the most effective way, in the most responsible way, continuing to invest in the global role of our european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not first of all, i should like to express my pleasure at the election of ursula von der leyen as president of the commission. i am sure that she will also take a stand, together with josep borrell and others, particularly on foreign, security and defence policy. we all want to assert our position as europeans and defend our interests together in a multilateral rules-based world order. the european parliament has been constructively involved in the implementation of the global strategy from the outset. we shall do so again in this parliament. we want to do this, for example, with the new ndici instrument, where we want to give our input but also maintain our influence. i think that the crises that we see around us, whether in the east, the south-east or the south, call for us to act together and to realise that we do indeed have common interests and that no one can leave this common ground.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, three years ago this house welcomed the establishment of the global strategy as a much-needed roadmap towards a strong, resilient and coherent eu. our external action needed a pragmatic vision, clearly identifying our objectives, our interests, our instruments and of course our partners. we have come a long way since then. with unprecedented global uncertainty, the global strategy has enhanced eu security, strengthened our multilateral partnerships and reinforced our engagement in global governance. remarkable progress was made in a number of areas: security and defence above all. we must build on this momentum with renewed efforts on crucial issues for the eu and for this house: first, a clear eu perspective for enlargement countries; second, a fair and sustainable management of migration; and third, a strong engagement with countries that our borders to an effective european neighbourhood policy. yes, the world today is not better off than it was in 2016. internally, our european values of democracy, solidarity and rule of law are challenged at their very foundations, and externally the unprecedented disengagement of great powers from multilateral platforms adds to outstanding security challenges and the destabilising consequences of climate change. so we need the eu more than ever, and the world needs the eu more than ever before if we are to address existing and new global challenges successfully.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. three years ago, we drew up the global strategy here with all our partners. at that moment it was really crucial, we were waiting for it here in parliament. we wanted that compass for our foreign policy in a world where europe was full of threats. it was a very uncertain time, and with the global strategy came a compass to bring more security to this continent. today we are evaluating this, and i must say to you - you yourself have made this very clear - that where there is political will, we have achieved results, results of which we can be rightly proud. i am thinking of all the steps forward on european defence, pesco, the missions, you yourself have mentioned them. bravo, that's a real step forward. but we also have to mention the peace facility. and the fact that we've proven ourselves a reliable partner. the iran deal is under fire right now, but we've been getting results there, too. but i think it is more important that we look to the future and see where our work is and where we need to build on. we have elected a new commission president today, ursula von der leyen. we had a very interesting debate with her. we need to get rid of this unanimity on foreign policy. then we'll be able to take more steps forward. as far as i 'm concerned , the european union must be even more united and stronger, and even more committed to european defence. for me, the step towards a european army is a real one. finally, mrs mogherini, i would like to thank you. we have had many, many nights of very good debates here. i want to thank you for that. you were the face of global strategy. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – i just wanted to ask whether the individual peoples and demos of the different nation states have ever voted or ever been asked to vote for a european army. this is a huge federalist imposition that goes against national sovereignty and goes against democracy. it is a frightening, militaristic and scary prospect to me that the eu dares to suggest it can have a foreign policy. it is difficult enough if you live in a nation state to control those who run that society from acting irresponsibly, in a foreign policy sense, but the idea that this chamber would actually have the nerve to argue for a foreign policy with no votes for it is scary and anti-democratic, and we, the brexit party, don’t support it.
mr president, high representative, i welcome the broad emphasis of the third progress report. a greater unity in the eu on foreign matters is essential, because that will lead us to be on equal footing with other global powers. but there are many challenges ahead of us, which you have clearly outlined. yes, we need more cooperation on security matters, but we also have a real job of work to do in terms of protecting multilateralism. reforming the international organisation system is key, but for me, above all, sustainable development really has to be part of this strategy – and it is a security issue. it is also of the utmost importance in terms of global strategy that the eu looks beyond europe much more in this mandate, especially at china, which is a serious threat to multilateralism and is being more and more aggressive on the global stage in africa, in the pacific and elsewhere, as the us is retreating from international organisation. it really is important that we look at this. at the same time, we need to involve, india, japan, canada, australia, much more in our focus, because they are defenders of multilateralism and they share our values. i will submit my question to you in writing.
mr president, we british liberal democrats and our allies in this parliament believe the european union is the most important peace project in european history, but it is not just european peace that we have to promote. we have been, and must be, champions of a rules-based international order of cooperation, of trust, of collaboration worldwide, and that rules-based international order is under threat as never before. yes, because of the militaristic posturing of china; yes, because of the actions of mr putin’s russia, closer to home; but also increasingly through the dangerously unreliable and inconsistent behaviour of our ally the usa, exemplified by donald trump’s rejection of the joint comprehensive plan of action on iran, signed by the eu, of course, alongside iran and other global players. donald trump is endangering peace, and by undermining this deal is effectively promoting nuclear proliferation. so it has never been more important for the european union to play a robustly positive role in promoting dialogue and reconciliation in place of conflict in general – and, very specifically, robustly defending this deal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask mr horwood this question: is he prepared to compromise the structures of deterrence that nato has provided for the past 70 years to ensure peace not only in europe but also around the world, and why on earth would he jeopardise that most important transatlantic relationship?
blue-card answer. – nobody in the european union, and certainly not high representative mogherini, has questioned the efficacy of nato or the importance of nato. it is because we want an integrated response to the threats in this increasingly dangerous world that we need both structured european defence cooperation and also collaboration through nato. the person who has questioned nato is actually donald trump, who is closer to your party’s beliefs and ideas of populism and nationalism than anyone in this parliament, in my view.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me first of all thank not only those of you that appreciated the global strategy that was presented, but also parliament for its contribution of three years ago and the work we’ve done together with the previous parliament to start to implement it. i would also like to thank those of you that have underlined the need to, in one sense, sustain and consolidate this work, but also to be consistent on those decisions. let me start with probably the most immediate task you will have in front of you, if you want to be consistent on the need to have a solid, reliable, credible, global player in our european union. that is what some of you have mentioned: put the money where your priorities are. one of the first responsibilities this parliament will have is the mff, and let me say – just to mention a few numbers – that the proposal we’ve made for the next mff, from the commission side, is to increase the funds for the external action of the european union by more or less 30%. this is needed in times of uncertainty in the world, because our partners look at europe to find a reliable, credible partner that is predictable, someone you can cooperate with, someone that invests always in peace, democracy, human rights and cooperation. but this sometimes also requires adequate resources to sustain this work around the world. so i hope that you will work in this direction in these next months. in particular, the proposal we put forward has an increase of 23% for the funds for africa, and this is very important. we have increased a lot our work with africa, not only in terms of development or humanitarian aid, but also in terms of partnership, political partnership, and work on peace and security. this work needs to be even more at the centre of our work in the future. 25% of those funds are dedicated to climate change in our proposal, and i really hope that this also can be supported and kept in your discussions on the next mff. i won’t comment on the situation in iran, because we will have a dedicated discussion later tonight – for those of you that are willing to spend the night in the hemicycle – on the security situation around the gulf. but let me stress, and you know already how important it is for all of us, collectively, to find a way to preserve the nuclear deal with iran and also to avoid any escalation, and rather to de-escalate or to help actors to de-escalate around the gulf. it is a vital interest of security concern for the european union. as i mentioned climate change and climate action and diplomacy, let me also say that one of the other priorities clearly indicated in our work is the work on cyber-security. security is not only military, it has also a much broader definition. we know that well, and also in that field there are some actions proposed – in the strategy, in the review of the strategy and the report on the strategy – that can be carried forward successfully in the future. let me also mention three other points. firstly, some of you mentioned the need to have a credible enlargement policy. i personally believe, and this commission believes, that giving a credible perspective for enlargement in the western balkans – to me even the word enlargement is not the appropriate one, because if you look at the geography, the balkans, the western balkan countries, are all neighbouring european union member states – is a matter of the reconciliation and unity of our continent. it is also a matter of reconciliation in the region. i believe that, in particular, opening accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania is timely now, and i hope that the council will take that decision in the coming months, and not later than that. it is an investment in our own security, stability, prosperity. i also see room for improvement on the work on migration. we have debated this here in this hemicycle in the previous legislature several times. some of you mentioned the good work that i started to do in operation sophia. on the external aspects of our migration policies, we have done a lot of good work. when i arrived five years ago, migration was not part of the external work of the union at all. it was only an internal aspect of our policies. in these five years, we have established good partnerships with the countries of origin and transit. we have now 26 return agreements in place. we have good cooperation with the un agencies – iom and unhcr in particular – and we have at the same time a sustainable and humane approach with our partners on the external side of migration. if i have one regret, it is that operation sophia, which managed to have a successful beginning in countering traffickers, seizing their vessels, arresting traffickers, saving lives at sea and implementing the arms embargo on libya. i only regret that our member states at the council decided to withdraw the naval assets from the mediterranean. having a naval operation without naval assets does not give too much credibility to our actions. so i really hope that there will be some developments in the coming weeks and months that could restore our presence at sea in the moment when this is most needed – both for the security situation in libya, but also for having an effective fight against the trafficking networks across the mediterranean. last, but not least, some of you mentioned some criticisms, more preoccupations, worries, on the risk of having a militarisation of the european union security and foreign policy. let me say this very clearly: the european union way to security is never, never, never an aggressive one. the european union is, as some of you have said, the peace project that has been the most successful in history – at least in recent history. we’ve managed to overcome our own conflicts and crises and, on the basis of that experience, we are trying to help our partners, we are trying to accompany our partners, in their search for peace and democracy and human rights. i see on a daily basis what the european union military men and women, as well as police and civilian security forces, do in our missions and operations. what we do is support the democratic institutions of our partner countries to build institutions that deal with security and defence – be they the armies or the security forces on the civilian side – and accompany un peacekeeping missions trying to establish peace and functioning institutions in the field of security and defence in very difficult circumstances. i just last week visited our missions and operations in countries as difficult as mali, niger and the central african republic. were it not for the european union men and women in uniform, these countries would face probably much, much worse conditions on the ground in security terms. so the work we do is never to kill – that is taken for granted. it is never to play an aggressive part in a conflict. on the contrary, some of you mentioned the strategic autonomy element we are trying to develop, which is intended to be able to autonomously play the role of peace builder that this world really needs. so i hope that this compass, as we call it, can also be useful to navigate in the difficult times you will most likely face – i hope not – in the five years of your mandate. i really count on you to work together, to work together with the other institutions, and to make the best use of it.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. three years after the adoption of the eu's global strategy, high representative federica mogherini highlights the successes and progress made in various aspects of this ambitious agenda. some of these are clear and should be welcomed, such as closer relations with some of the eastern partnership countries or an increase in the number of areas where joint action is being taken with nato. on the other hand, there are also some scriptures that cause concern. being at the north atlantic alliance: reflects on the all too frequent reference to the need to ensure 'strategic autonomy' of the eu without defining exactly what is behind this phrase. with 22 member states simultaneously belonging to nato, the building of alternative eu military structures, including command, may lead to a weakening rather than strengthening of the eu's compatibility with the alliance. much attention is also given to reform of the un system. i would like to emphasise here that the member states, not the european union, have a leading role in this process. of course, within the eu we should agree positions in the main un bodies and bodies - including on their future shape - and vote together where possible. however, we oppose the idea of the union replacing national governments, for example by giving it a permanent seat on the security council.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2019/2730(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the people of venezuela have faced, and are still facing, a dramatic situation. the humanitarian situation is still dire, it is getting worse by the day. seven million venezuelans in the country are in need of assistance and 3.7 million people are malnourished, according to unhcr and fao respectively. four million venezuelans have already fled the country in the past four years, and future projections point to continued increases. the regional impact of the crisis is massive, including for the stability of the region. and on the political front, the government has arbitrarily arrested many members of the national assembly and lifted their parliamentary immunity. the recent death of captain acosta arévalo after he was taken into custody by the venezuelan security forces is, for me – but i think for all of us – shocking. we have immediately called for a thorough and truly independent investigation that brings those responsible to justice. we have all seen the report by the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, that confirms what we already knew very well: that human rights violations in venezuela are frequent and are serious. we fully support both the findings of the report and, most importantly, the recommendations. just today, i issued a statement on behalf of all 28 member states making clear that we stand ready to assist the un high commissioner for human rights in her efforts to ensure that the fundamental rights of all venezuelans are fully protected. in light of her report, we are also ready to start work towards applying targeted measures for those members of the security forces involved in torture and other serious violations of human rights. addressing the humanitarian and social emergency in venezuela is urgent and long overdue. in the last weeks, something has started to move on the diplomatic side. the talks that norway is mediating resumed last week in barbados, and new meetings are ongoing as we speak. we all know that the path towards a democratic transition is fraught with obstacles, yet for the first time in months, or even years, this can be a preliminary step in the right direction towards a peaceful and democratic transition, both peaceful and democratic, with free and credible presidential elections. in this, i am proud of the key role that the european union has played in giving diplomacy a chance, when violence seemed to be the only game in town and a very risky one not only for venezuela, but also for the region and for the rest of the world. we insisted that there was no military solution to the crisis and that any outcome had to be both peaceful and democratic. this is why we set up the international contact group at the beginning of this year, with the crucial participation of four latin american countries, and just last week a fifth country from the region asked to join in. the contact group was never supposed to mediate talks. we knew that from the very beginning, also because mediation, especially a mediation as complex us this one, cannot be mediated by a group, and also because we knew very well that the conditions for starting mediation when we started the international contact group were not there at all. so the group was not created for mediating a process – we’ve always been very clear on this, including in this chamber – the goal of the contact group has always been to try and contribute to create the conditions for a meaningful mediation to be launched in a credible manner in the right framework. in a moment – i stress this – when an escalation seemed almost inevitable, today after months of good work, and i would like to thank my colleagues, both the foreign ministers of the latin american countries, of the european countries that are part of the contact group, but also all our teams that have been working on this literally night and day, with a lot of dedication, after months of work today the space to build a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis has opened up. in these months, the contact group’s role has been recognised by all parties inside the country, in the region, and in the international arena. i engaged personally with all our international interlocutors, from the united states to russia and china, from the vatican to cuba, from the lima group, to caricom. representatives of the contact group met all venezuelan actors during their visits to caracas. my special adviser for venezuela, enrique iglesias, was in caracas just days ago, and he met all relevant actors at the highest level, starting with juan guaidó, nicolás maduro, the united nations, the main political parties, but also civil society and the catholic church. this work has been essential to open the space for a political solution. it is not to be taken for granted at all that this space is going to be used to reach a political solution, but at least we have stopped the escalation on the military violence side, and we have given the political solution a chance. this is why we all agreed, at the contact group meeting in costa rica a few months ago, first of all to continue our work, but also to intensify our political engagement and our outreach to relevant international actors. so the process that has now started is extremely fragile, but this is exactly why we must now do everything we can to support and accompany the talks in barbados. a peaceful and democratic transition has to come from within venezuela. it can never be imposed from the outside, but we can, and must, facilitate this process with all means available, as we did in these months. and we must be crystal clear, there’s no doubt about that. the country needs new presidential elections with a free and fair electoral process, with a level playing field for all candidates. and venezuela also needs an effective separation of powers, starting with the recognition and respect of the national assembly’s prerogatives and of the immunity of all its members. some essential elements for a credible process have emerged very clearly from our talks and our work in these months. first, that crucial state institutions such as the supreme court of justice and ‘citizen power’ offices work for all citizens of venezuela in an impartial way. in particular a revised and balanced composition of the national electoral council will be needed. second, that all candidates are allowed to participate in the elections with the same rights and with no arbitrary restrictions. third, that the voter register is updated, including young voters and venezuelans abroad. and fourth, that international election observers monitor the whole electoral process and not just the election days. the european union and the entire international contact group are ready to help throughout the electoral process if the parties ask for our support and if we get to that stage. this is probably the most delicate moment in the path that could lead towards a peaceful and democratic solution. this is the moment to do everything we can to strengthen this fragile process and help it deliver on the venezuelan people’s aspirations. we continue to believe that a certain degree of pressure needs to be maintained. the venezuelan regime needs to understand that the status quo is simply not an option. it is not sustainable; not for the country, not for its citizens, not for the region, and not for the world. today with our statements with all the 28 member states, we clearly recalled that, and i quote: ‘in case there are no concrete results from the ongoing negotiations, the european union will further expand its targeted measures’. at the same time, we made clear once again, i quote again: ‘that these measures can be reversed in case substantial progress is made towards the restoration of democracy, rule of law and human rights in venezuela.’. in the meantime, we will also continue to work through the contact group and in close cooperation with the un to guarantee full access to humanitarian assistance without any restrictions, including by local humanitarian ngos. we welcome the progress that has been made in this direction that we have accompanied and pushed for in these months, including with the appointment of a humanitarian coordinator by the un. since the beginning of the crisis we, the european union, have been one of the largest humanitarian donors to the venezuelan people inside the country, but also in the neighbouring countries in the region. we continue to support, at political and financial level, all regional and international initiatives to address the refugee crisis, starting with the quito process, and this will not change. as we work on the political path, we also need to be extremely active on humanitarian support. but beyond the humanitarian aid, we have, vice versa, the responsibility to keep accompanying the work towards a peaceful and democratic way out of the crisis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, i think it is essential that at the beginning of this parliamentary term, at the opening of the european parliament's work, it should take a clear and unequivocal position on the humanitarian crisis in venezuela. it is essential that it should be clear from the outset that the european parliament condemns the systematic violations of human rights, with torture, with assassinations, with the constant political persecution of opponents of the regime, that it also condemns the attack on the national assembly, the immunity of the deputies and, in essence, the freedom of political expression, that it at the same time recognizes the national assembly and also juan guaidó as the legitimate representatives of the venezuelan people. that said, it is also very important to urge the de facto authorities to provide food, medicine, to let humanitarian aid in. it is essential to look at the migration crisis in colombia, ecuador, peru, even in european union territories, in portugal or spain, where more and more venezuelans are flocking to the largest migration crisis in the americas. and finally, it is important to draw attention to the unacceptable foreign interference of cuba and russia and, against this background, to support the peace process, the dialogue process which norway is mediating and which should aim at holding free, democratic and transparent elections that restore the sovereignty of the venezuelan people.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you very much, high representative. we share the analysis of the high representative of the european commission on venezuela. but we believe that it is appropriate, now that we are beginning a mandate, to claim our solidarity with the venezuelan people; to claim that the only possible way out is a political, peaceful and negotiated way out, which ends up leading to free and fair elections, with equal opportunities for all political actors, and monitored by the international community. it is time to claim that there are positive expectations now that these negotiations are taking place in barbados, with the company and support of norway. and it is also time to shed light on what is happening in venezuela: the suffering of the venezuelan people, which the united nations has claimed and called the hand of michelle bachelet; extrajudicial executions, torture, violations of human rights with impunity that need to be addressed, and also violations of economic and social rights that require humanitarian aid. for all these reasons, we want to shed light on the only possible solution today and, at the same time, to claim the suffering that the venezuelan people are suffering. and now that we see the light in this political way out, i want to say that it is only thanks to the work of the european union that we have got here.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam high representative, tomorrow is international criminal justice day and this parliament is sending a clear message: we will not tolerate human rights being violated in venezuela. it is time for the european union to take a firmer stand against the dictatorship and expand targeted sanctions, including the possibility of sanctioning the state oil company. they say that maduro is willing to negotiate, but i wonder how one can be, on the one hand, negotiating and, on the other, at the same time, imprisoning, torturing and killing people opposed to the regime. how is it possible to say that we want dialogue and at the same time persecute those with whom we want to negotiate? let's not kid ourselves, maduro is still using his usual tricks: pretending willingness to negotiate to buy time. we have to do everything possible to make sure that maduro, at last, commits himself seriously to dialogue and the crisis is resolved peacefully.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, during the last mandate we passed 15 resolutions on venezuela. i’m not convinced that the objective of their proposals was really to resolve the situation to the benefit of most venezuelan people, but rather to ensure that certain forces in that desperate country could take power from the discredited maduro government. meanwhile, we are ignoring human rights abuses in other countries, like those in central america, that are giving rise to mass migrations – now the focus of another human rights urgency resolution in this house. it’s clear that the strategy of organising a coup with guaidó at its head has failed and in your statement issued this morning, ms mogherini, i noted that he was not even mentioned. other things that have changed since our last resolution: for one, michelle bachelet visited venezuela on behalf of the un and clearly condemned the human rights abuses – on that we’re all agreed – while norway has launched a mediation initiative, bringing together the two sides in barbados. this is an initiative that we should support, as you yourself have done. although the negotiated resolution is still problematic, there is now hope that we can reach a mediated solution on a democratic process that all venezuelans can sign up to. that is where the support of this house should go.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam high representative, in 2017 we granted the sakharov prize to the venezuelan opposition. unfortunately, the maduro regime remains quite strong, despite the massive violations of human rights, intimidation of the democratic opposition and large-scale arrests. we are also concerned by the hyper-inflationary meltdown of the country, diseases, shortages of medicines and, in particular, the suffering of elderly people and children. there is a migration crisis with a spill-over effect on the whole region. yet there is some hope in the recent diplomatic efforts. i cautiously welcome the barbados process led by norway, and we support your efforts, ms mogherini.
mr president, the situation in venezuela today is an example of what happens when a socialist ideology is pursued to its logical conclusion and why it must be defeated in europe. what i find so disturbing this morning, listening to the meps from the left, is how they think a socialist agenda of more regulation, more central planning and more bureaucracy leads to an economic utopia. as an economist, i can tell you that these ideas are both deluded and misguided. far from giving more personal and economic freedom, the ideas i heard this morning do the complete opposite. in the words of one great austrian economist, friedrich hayek, it will lead down the road to serfdom. venezuela provides a reminder of how undiluted socialism works out: a brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the world’s highest inflation rate of over a million percent. the nation’s economy, which has already contracted by half in recent years, is expected to shrink by another 25%. by intervening, you may feel better by showcasing your political virtue but you most assuredly will not be helping the courageous opposition leader, juan guaidó, and his supporters. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i would like to commend mr rowland on some points powerfully put. i wonder how he expects to get them across to the high representative if we proceed with brexit.
blue-card answer. – we will do this multilaterally, of course.
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for her attendance tonight and for her remarks, and particularly the progress she reports on instex. high representative, i hope you will strongly defend that instrument, which i think is rewarding peace and restraint on behalf of moderates like president rouhani, even as donald trump is undermining their position with sanctions. i have two questions. first, underlying this crisis is the ongoing cold war between saudi arabia and iran, which is blighting the region and exacerbating violence and conflict from yemen to iraq, afghanistan, the gulf states and lebanon. so, can i ask what specifically the european union is doing to promote dialogue and reconciliation between saudi arabia and iran? my second question: if the united states and its saudi allies move to a policy of regime change in iran, will the european union firmly reject that policy?
vpc/hr. mr president, i begin by answering some questions that have been put by members of this house about the mechanism we have put in place, and on which france, germany and britain have been working with our support for many months, since september last year, the famous instex, a mechanism which allows european companies to have legitimate trade with iran. the question is whether and when it will be ready, and i refer to this in my introductory remarks. not only is the mechanism ready, but it is already operational. he's been processing the first transactions for a few weeks now. it will take time because you have to pay very close attention to due diligence but the mechanism is in place, it is already working on the first transactions that are being processed. anyway, i can repeat it in english so the interpreters will help me with the appropriate french technical language. instex has been operational for a couple of weeks. it has started to proceed with the first transactions so it is already in place. the other part of the question, which i was surprised to receive from another colleague from the same group, was whether we intend to activate, with respect to the extraterritorial impact of the us sanctions, the blocking status that we had in place to protect european investments, a few decades ago, vis-à-vis the extraterritorial impact of us sanctions on cuba. the blocking status has already been reactivated, covering the extraterritorial effect of us sanctions on iran in this case, for more than a year. i think that was done in the summer of last year, and i can provide you with all the information. it is all public. the previous parliament debated this several times. the blocking status has been activated to cover european interests in iran with regard to the extraterritorial effects of the us sanctions for a year now and, yes, instex is already operational and processing the first transactions in these very same weeks. i hope that's clarifying and reassuring. again, all this information is publicly available and i have mentioned this several times, not only in the past few weeks but also in the previous months. having said that, some of you touched on other aspects that are not related either to the current escalation across the gulf or to the preservation of the nuclear deal. in particular, i want to stress one point that is particularly important to me, namely our work to promote human rights across the region. in iran and in other gulf countries, this has been a constant part of our work, bilaterally and regionally. by the way, we also have measures in place concerning human rights. we have human rights dialogues and we have considerable engagement, in particular, with the protection of human rights activists and some other citizens as well. so we're following both individual cases and human rights situations across the gulf in a very active manner as well as, as some of you mentioned, the recent risks to the freedom and safety of navigation in the gulf. this is also a top priority for us and we are making that extremely clear. to answer two specific questions asked by one of the last speakers, we would not support regime change. we normally don't support regime change anywhere in the world and it is not the kind of policy the eu promotes or supports. this is the case here too. we are respectful of the political dynamics inside countries. the angle from which we see the situation - not only in iran, but also across the gulf - is that of the promotion of channels of communication. this brings me to the first part of the honourable member's question, which was about what we can do, or what we are doing, to promote channels of cooperation, or communication at least, in particular between iran and the kingdom of saudi arabia but also more generally across the region. we have been working very actively in recent years, inter alia, to try and help our friends in the gulf cooperation council (gcc) to overcome their own divergences and splits. what we're doing in specific terms is, on the one hand, keeping our own channels of cooperation open with all sides. secondly, we are trying to support those forces in the region - one of which is kuwait - that are trying to build bridges, trying to open channels for communication and trying, particularly in the case of the gcc countries, to underline the fact that there is a win-win scenario: regional cooperation is beneficial for all. in this respect, i announced during my visit to baghdad on saturday that the european union would be more than ready to support in all possible ways the initiative that the president of iraq is considering, to convene a regional conference of iraq's neighbours. the aim would be to try to identify a common objective that unites all iraq's neighbours, which is protecting the country itself from this escalation in the region and also preserving the achievements that iraq has managed to build, including with the support of the international community, in terms, for example, of the territorial defeat of daesh and the improvement of the situation in the country. we are supporting all possible initiatives from within the region and, obviously, from an international perspective, to highlight that there is a common interest a shared interest across the region. the european experience is clear in this respect. you can disagree, you can have a past of being enemies, or even at war, and you can still not define each other as friends, but if you share the same geographical space and geography is something you cannot change you have an interest in identifying the framework within which your disagreements can be handled in a peaceful and contained manner. that is the indication we are giving. in europe we have experience of how to handle disagreements within a certain regional framework that may even be tense. we can offer our support and our experience in how to build a security framework architecture that is increasingly important as tensions arise. i hope this answers your questions and i hope we can continue to count on your support because what is important is not only the practical steps we can take but also the political messages we can send to the region. i believe that the voice of this parliament will be important in that respect.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in moldova (2019/2737 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, throughout the past legislature we held many debates on moldova, and not a single one was positive. so i am more than happy, and let me admit, i am relieved that this country has finally begun turning from a captured state into a recovering democracy. mr president, i think that the high representative usually gets for floor first. i think the high representative should perhaps give us an update first.
excuse me, i was too quick!
we shall conclude the previous debate. i would ask the vice-president to inform us again about the situation in moldova.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i am sure it will not differ too much from what mr mcallister was saying, but still, for the sake of the correct functioning of the institutions, i should say a few words before listening to your considerations on the situation in moldova. but i can fully share what david mcallister was saying in the very first sentences. we’ve had many debates about moldova in this hemicycle in the past years and they have very few times, if ever, been encouraging or positive. the people of moldova have asked for change, for reforms that would bring the country forward. recently this was very evident. the european union has followed the situation in recent months, as well as in the previous years, step-by-step, as neighbours, as partners and, most of all, as friends of the moldovan people. we are glad that moldova now has a government with a bold programme to tackle corruption and reform the country. obviously, after the programmes, reforms need to happen for real and implementation has to come. i want to recall where we stood just one year ago. when i met the previous parliament for an urgency debate on moldova, the situation was critical. the mayoral elections in the capital, chișinău, had just been annulled by dubious court decisions. it was a difficult moment for our relations with moldova. we had to take unpleasant but necessary decisions, for instance when we put on hold our micro-financial assistance because moldova was not sticking to its own commitments. in june, after the elections, a short but very profound institutional crisis unfolded. together with commissioner hahn, we made clear our position: that we expected the democratically legitimate government to be allowed to take office and the rule of law to be respected. we were all relieved that the new government could finally start its work, and the institutional crisis was solved in a clear and peaceful manner. the new government’s programme has, at its core, many of the priorities that are clearly spelled out in our association agreement with moldova. it is good to see that their agenda talks not only about structural reforms to fight corruption more effectively, but also about the independence of the judiciary and improving the electoral framework. these are not demands that come from the european union. these are demands that come from the people of moldova, which the european union is ready to support. i am also glad that, in these very first weeks, our contacts with our new counterparts have been very intense and very positive. commissioner hahn visited chișinău in june. prime minister sandu was in brussels at the beginning of july. just yesterday in brussels, we hosted a new foreign minister, nicolae popescu, at our foreign affairs council for a discussion on how to more forward in our association agreement implementation. as you know, we are preparing a set of concrete measures to support the country based on the implementation of reforms under the association agreement and the package. what we are working on also includes the release of assistance that had been put on hold. yesterday, we also confirmed that the next association council with moldova can take place next autumn. their foreign minister yesterday confirmed that the new government intends to tackle corruption decisively and to address the politicisation of state institutions, including the judicial system. he also confirmed to us that moldova has a strong interest in its partnership with the european union, both politically and economically. our partnership has nothing to do with geopolitics or spheres of influence. recent events have demonstrated very clearly that for the people of moldova what truly matters is reforms and positive change, and not really geopolitics or calculations. i also want to make it very clear that we see all the good intentions and all the good arguments, but what will really count is the implementation of these intentions and the real capacity to put in place changes in the country. in this spirit, what we want to do is to keep accompanying and supporting reforms in moldova. we do not do politics. we do not do internal politics in countries. we relate with institutions on the basis of content and policies, programmes and concrete reforms put in place. this moment represents an opportunity for the country, and we will be there to accompany this opportunity so that it can succeed.
thank you very much. now the order is right. mr. mcallister, the floor is yours.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you so much for giving me the floor for the second time. throughout the last legislature, we held many debates on moldova in this plenary, and not a single one was positive. so i am more than happy – yes, i am actually relieved – that this country has finally begun turning from a captured state into a recovering democracy. this is a huge victory for all the moldovans who voted for change. now the new prime minister, ms maia sandu, has to tackle a number of challenges. federica mogherini just mentioned a number of them: the fight against corruption, the reform of the judiciary, the depoliticisation of the state administration, the electoral reform and a pluralistic media landscape with adequate financing and safeguards to protect journalists. a sustainable reform agenda for moldova should be accompanied by a determined effort to heal the deep social divisions that we have seen in recent months, including a genuine commitment to inter-party dialogue in the parliament in chișinău. we will be welcoming prime minister sandu in the foreign affairs committee next wednesday on 24 july. we will look forward to continuing the debate with her on that occasion.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the european union’s moldova partnership is based on common values, respect for democratic principles, rule of law and fundamental freedoms. in my capacity as standing rapporteur on moldova, i have always been supporting and strengthening the importance of democratic criteria in our relations with moldova and its domestic development. i wish to recall the joint memorandum that all the eu institutions had reached in july 2017, emphasising the democratic criteria and respect for fundamental freedoms in relation to macro-financial assistance from the european union. the eu was – and remains – bound to this memorandum, and for very good reason. i strongly welcome the so-called silent revolution, which took place in june this year against the policies of the captive state, oligarchisation and state-built corruption system. the new moldovan government needs our support and solidarity under the principle of more for more.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i had the honour and pleasure to chair a small parliamentary mission to moldova on 24 june, very soon after these positive developments in that country, on behalf of david mcallister. i travelled with our colleague siegfried mureșan and our former colleague clare moody, so it was a small mission, and very short, but it really was worthwhile. we had a chance, in that very short time, around half a day, to meet with maia sandu the new prime minister and to hear from her what agreement had been reached with the – let’s say – russia—friendly socialist party. we left convinced that the common denominator is strong enough to get rid of the high—level corruption that has really plagued that country. i very much hope that now the european political parties will also help and support positive developments instead of helping parliamentary state capture. i think a key question is that we have to find out what really happened with the bank embezzlement scandal some years ago. the prime minister needs to get access to the second kroll international investigation to see what was actually discovered.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, if there is one thing that moldova has demonstrated, it is its ability to find national solutions, albeit tentatively, on its own. the vanity of the european strategy since the 2016 association agreement is now in full view. how many action plans, reports and so-called reform programmes are needed before we finally reach an open institutional crisis? nor will the union have succeeded in winning hearts and souls. despite inclusion in a free trade area, visa exemption or in some european programmes, moldova still favoured integration into the eurasian economic union rather than the european union in 2015. and after this crisis, it is the pro-russian igor dodon who still stands as the politician with the strongest popular support, while the pro-european plahotniuc was the one through whom the scandal happened. in moldova, as elsewhere, the european horizon is a decoy and, as in its shared neighbourhood, brussels will have to rely on russia for a long time to come.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have to say, madam commissioner, moldova is going through a turbulent political period. so many citizens of the smallest and poorest country in europe are thirsting for the opening up of their society. the new sandu government has given the entire political class of the country the enormous task of bringing about a democratic change in the country's domestic political, economic and social structure. the corrupt plahotniuc regime left deep traces: government institutions, the judicial system, the prosecution and the media were under his personal authoritarian leadership style. not only must the functioning of democratic institutions be restored, but justice must also be done to those who have been wrongly accused, to persecuted politicians and social actors, and political proceedings must be stopped. the eu commission and the external action service are requested to release frozen funds for example eu macro-financial assistance only if there is real progress a change in the status quo and in full transparency. the billions stolen have still not been returned to the moldovan people. keywords: kroll reports one and two. the council of the european union must now finally take action.
mr president, the people of moldova have to resolve their domestic situation themselves. the country needs help, advice and support but not political interference. moldova needs to keep its independence. i would go so far as to say to them, ‘do not go anywhere near this undemocratic institution’. however, i doubt the newly elected eu commission president, elected by just nine votes, will let them. earlier today one phrase of hers caught my attention: ‘our people, our talent, our diversity’. as i looked out at the members in the chamber earlier today, i have to admit i did not know what she meant. i guess her idea of diversity is very different from that of mine and my party.
mr president, i am very glad that maia sandu is now the prime minister. i have known her for many years and she is a pro-european, democratic and uncorrupted prime minister. i think that is something that gives hope to the citizens of moldova. i think that what we saw in the days when there was this change is one example of where the european union should definitely be in a position to have majority voting on foreign policy issues. a unanimous stance was not possible because the current romanian government and their parties were very close to vladimir plahotniuc’s party and they were not happy to drop them, which was problematic, but i think all the others were supportive from the outset. i would like to thank the european external action service because our representation there really only contacted the new legitimate government, while other governments thought, well, perhaps they should mediate between a caretaker government that was installed by a dependent constitutional court. so let us perhaps reconsider our stance to discuss whether it is necessary to have unanimity always on foreign policy issues when it’s so obvious, for example, that there is a clearly legitimate government.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i have little to add. i think it is clear to all that there’s a window of hope, of opportunity, and that we have a responsibility to help and support the government to deliver on these good intentions and goodwill. you can count on us to do all we can to accompany this process in the best possible way. the final responsibility, obviously, is in the hands of the prime minister and the government, but obviously, we have all the interests in making her task a bit less challenging than it looks, and it is. let me also say that indeed our statements and our moves in chișinău, during the critical hours of the institutional crisis in june, have been decisive. i also have to say that yesterday, during the foreign affairs council, i found unanimity on this point. we did not face any problems with member states. i often say in the foreign affairs council, the major problem we face is normally not unanimity in reaching decisions, but the consistency of the day after implementation of the decisions we take. but this is another story, which relates more to the political will back in the capitals. i thank you for the support, and i count on our joint work – commission, council and parliament – to accompany this new phase for moldova.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on the presentation of the work programme of the finnish presidency of the council (2019/2687 ((rsp)). i would like to thank the finnish presidency of the council and then president rinne antti for his presentation. i would like to welcome all the ministers of the finnish government, we are glad to have them here with us today.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, president of the commission, honourable members, i am very pleased to be here among you today. first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the honourable members on your success in the recent european elections. i am also very pleased that, as a result of yesterday’s vote in parliament, we now have a new president of the commission and we can start working together to build a better future for europe. it is important that the gender balance is now good as we think about the commission situation. as the representative of the finnish presidency of the council of the european union, i would like to stress my full commitment to constructive cooperation with the european parliament. for this purpose, our minister for european affairs, tytti tuppurainen, will represent the council in the plenaries. the foundations of the european union were laid in a divided continent ravaged by war. the founders of our union shared a common vision and belief in the future. the people dreamed of, and had expectations for, peace and stability for the whole continent. in other words, they wanted the unity of europe. for many decades now, the eu has fulfilled these expectations. eu cooperation has deepened as the member states have come to realise that together we are stronger. nowhere else in the world is there anything to compare with this unique form of cooperation between nations. ‘unique’ is indeed the right word to describe the story of the european union. only 30 years ago, our continent was still divided by barbed wire and walls. since then, a whole generation has been born and raised who have never known anything other than free movement across borders. our continent, which suffered the horrors of war and dictatorship and witnessed a genocide 75 years ago, is now the strongest defender of democracy, human rights and peace in the world. the eu is a living example of how we can learn from the past: that peace overcomes war; that hope is stronger than despair. in recognition of this unique story, the european union received the nobel peace prize in 2012. maybe, the peace prize was also meant to be a reminder to us: while keeping the peace, it is now our responsibility to meet new expectations. for the eu, this unique story is a source of pride. but, as i said, that pride also means we bear great responsibility, as the eu is now the object of these new expectations. while maintaining stability and peace is still one of the eu’s core tasks, many other big questions remain unanswered. we have all seen that the eu’s values – the rule of law, human rights, equality and democracy – are being challenged. europe’s economic growth has slowed. this has not only led to growing unemployment and inequality but is also paving the way for the rise of populism and extremism. in this regard, we need to find long-term, comprehensive solutions to migration. the eu’s unity has also been tested, and will be tested, by the prospect of the united kingdom’s withdrawal. we believe that it is better to seek answers to complex questions together rather than alone. for finland, this is our third presidency of the council of the european union. many things have changed since the previous presidencies in 1999 and 2006. some things, however, remain the same. one of them is the pragmatic way finland will run its council presidency. another is the close relationship between the presidency and the european parliament. in finland, our parliament plays a strong role in eu decision-making. the finnish parliament has the right – and obligation – to express its views on eu matters that fall within its decision-making powers. we have found this active parliamentary engagement to be very useful, as is the continuous dialogue between government and parliament. within the eu, we again have an opportunity to build a close and pragmatic, forward-looking relationship between the eu institutions. i believe we can achieve this and meet the expectations of our citizens by taking the lead in addressing the major challenges ahead. finland has just launched its presidency of the council, and in this role we can make an impact on the future of the eu. that future should be socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. in fact, the slogan for our presidency neatly states this goal: sustainable europe – sustainable future. to this end, the priorities for the finnish presidency are: first, to strengthen the eu’s position as a global leader in climate action; second, to strengthen common values and the rule of law; third, to make the eu more competitive and socially inclusive; and fourth, comprehensively to protect the security of citizens. a key priority of the finnish presidency is the eu’s global leadership on climate action. we already have in place the most ambitious targets among the industrialised economies and we have a binding legal framework that will deliver our current commitments – but we must not stop there. for the european union, leadership means committing to climate neutrality by 2050. our aim is to reach agreement on the main elements of this plan by the end of 2019. as the necessary measures will have an impact on all sectors of society, these measures to tackle climate change must be carried out in a socially sustainable way. we need to boost employment with the help of the bioeconomy and circular economy, for example. this is how we can make the eu the world’s most competitive and socially inclusive low-carbon economy. the european union is, first and foremost, a community of values. it is not a store where we can choose a little bit of freedom of speech and human rights, but then decide not to pick up freedom of the press or independent courts. it doesn’t work like that in western democracies. human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law are all values that eu countries commit to as part of their membership. these values belong together. they are the cornerstones of all eu action. but they are not just values, they are a european reality. because of these values, european societies are safer and more secure, more stable and more prosperous than anywhere else in the world. we europeans know better than anybody what happens if we lose sight of these values. for finland, it is only natural that common values and the rule of law are high priorities on our presidency agenda. we look forward to working together with the european parliament on these issues. in fact, we have close ties to the european parliament in another way as well. as some of you may know, the first european ombudsman, jacob söderman, came from finland. during our first presidency in 1999, leaders agreed on the common priorities for justice and home affairs. we also worked closely together with the european parliament on the charter of fundamental rights. respect for the rule of law is not only a matter of protecting the rights of our citizens. it is also a matter of the proper functioning and credibility of the european union. our approach is positive and constructive. finland wishes to improve and strengthen the eu’s rule-of-law toolbox and build cooperation between different entities and parties. the aim is to find better and more efficient ways to ensure respect for the eu’s common values in the member states and to forestall potential problems. the rule-of-law dialogue in the council will be evaluated, with the aim of taking it in a more structured and results-oriented direction. we also need to continue negotiations on how to link the receipt of eu funds more closely with respect for the rule of law. we are aiming at setting up a well-balanced and effective mechanism that will tie eu funding to compliance with the rule of law. the single market cannot function without its central principles, which are the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. the single market, rules-based free trade and up-to-date regulations of a high standard, combined with a modern approach to industrial policy, are elements that make the eu collectively competitive. the eu now needs a positive and comprehensive long-term strategy for sustainable growth. our two institutions and the commission can build on the success achieved on the digital economy during the last term. additionally, our emphasis must be on taking full advantage of research, development, innovation, services and digitalisation. an active industrial policy and development of the service sector and the digital economy will help lay the foundation for a new economy fit for the modern age. it is clear that well-being and economic policies go hand in hand. the eu works best when we increase people’s well-being and security and reduce inequality. by fostering skills, education and training, and promoting regional and social fairness, as well as gender equality, the eu will create sustainable growth. the single market, which is at the core of the european union, should treat all workers fairly. that is why the finnish presidency will promote the eu’s social dimension and investments in education, training and skills. we know that new needs arise from new forms of employment and global competition. our aim should be to make european education, training and research the best in the world. to do so we need to increase our exchanges of students and other forms of cooperation between educational institutions. we should also explore the possibility of establishing a networked european super-university, based on the existing european universities initiative, and substantially strengthening the erasmus programme. only by acting together can we defend european values and interests. the eu should aim to be a values-based global leader and defend a rules-based approach in trade. we also believe that, to be able to tackle the challenges of climate change, population growth and migration management, it is essential for us to support stability and development in africa. i would like to thank mr juncker and the commission for the excellent work done on the eu-africa partnership. the finnish presidency will work towards taking the eu-africa partnership in the direction of greater equality, in a way that benefits both partners. at the same time, eu citizens expect us to protect their security and this should be done comprehensively. that means making progress on defence cooperation. digital security and countering hybrid threats, such as disinformation, are also increasingly important. the finnish presidency aims to step up the fight against hybrid threats and build the resilience of our societies. we will organise the work of the council in such a way that we can boost awareness and understanding of what can and must be done, in good cooperation. the next multiannual financial framework (mff) is one of the most important issues for the finnish presidency. i want to thank the commission for its balanced proposal to modernising the mff. indeed, we must find a balanced solution, which reflects both new priorities and traditional policies that contribute to the common european objectives. that will enable us to meet expectations vis-à-vis the eu and to tackle the challenges i have mentioned here today. we will facilitate the final stages for reaching the council mff deal by the end of the year. in this work, good cooperation with the european parliament is very important. in times of difficulty, people are heard to say that the eu should act quickly. we think that what is needed is a stronger eu position as a global leader on climate action, a strengthening of our common values and the rule of law, a more competitive and socially inclusive eu, and comprehensive protection of our citizens’ security. i believe we can meet these expectations through good cooperation with the european parliament. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today on behalf of president juncker and to participate in this debate on the finnish presidency. but let me first congratulate ursula von der leyen on her election by this house as president of the european commission. i also want to congratulate members of the european parliament. in voting yesterday, you instilled the democratic legitimacy in the presidency of the european commission that our citizens expect. prime minister, it is a pleasure to see you here today soon after you hosted the college of commissioners meeting in helsinki just two weeks ago. as president juncker said in helsinki, ‘europe needs finland because finland is pragmatic, down to earth and cool-headed’. that is exactly what we need in the coming months. prime minister, when it comes to the environment you are already leading by example. the european union is the first major economy to have put in place a legally binding framework to deliver on what we committed to do under the paris agreement. we have set ambitious targets for 2030 for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency. translating the 2030 targets into reality has to be our top priority. the commission has also laid out its vision for the eu to become climate-neutral by 2050. reaching climate neutrality with zero net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 is not only possible but also economically beneficial. the energy transition will not hurt our economy but, on the contrary, will result in the creation of new jobs, new business opportunities and hundreds of billions of euros per year in reduced air-pollution damages. finland is showing us the way ahead with the unprecedented ambition of becoming climate-neutral by 2035. i therefore have no doubt that finland is the right country at the right time to take the european union forward. every part of our economy must pull its weight, and this starts with the financial sector. it is why a key pillar of complementing the capital markets union is the action plan for financing sustainable growth presented by the commission in 2018. the idea behind the action plan is to help us make a systemic change in investment culture. sustainability should not be seen as a niche within the financial system. it must define our financial system. i hope that our proposal will be adopted under the finnish presidency. it is also why the commission has proposed that a quarter of the next long—term eu budget should be spent on climate objectives, this more than ever before. with regard to what i call the ‘industrial leg’ of our climate policy, the circular economy, our work to close the loop is now showing real results, while creating jobs for our citizens. in 2016, sectors relevant to the circular economy employed more than four million workers, 6% more than in 2012. that is the reason why the circular economy must be a solid part of our industrial policy in the future. we agreed in sibiu last may that we would provide the union with the means necessary to attain our objectives. to respect our commitment, we need a swift agreement on the next long—term eu budget. you can count on the support of the commission to facilitate this process in any way we can. a swift agreement would produce numerous benefits. it would allow us to create tens of thousands of research jobs by 2021, and 100 000 projects funded under cohesion policy would start on time. it would also ensure that in 2021 a million young people can benefit from an erasmus exchange. so let us send an unambiguous signal of our determination to conclude in the autumn with a modern balanced and unifying package that we can all support. prime minister, we have also injected sustainability into our trade agreements. today, europeans benefit from open trade with 72 countries around the world. during this mandate alone, we finalised trade agreements with 15 countries, including japan, canada, singapore and vietnam, and we have recently concluded an agreement with mercosur. these deals send a clear message in support of open and fair, sustainable and rules-based trade. first, our agreement with mercosur, is the biggest agreement we have ever negotiated, creating a rules-based trade area covering 780 million people, with the benefits this will bring to both sides. but, moreover, it is also an agreement in which each and every country has committed itself to the effective implementation of the paris agreement and, in this case, of brazil. this includes the very significant commitment to stop deforestation in the amazon. when we talk about rules and values-based trade today, this is what we mean and – yes – we aim to open markets and we are always ready to open our own, but in doing so we set the rules in which trade takes place. trade for the eu means promoting a rule-based system and playing our part in shaping globalisation according to our values and principles. industrial policy should be a key priority for our future. industrial policy should be based on competitiveness, because competitiveness is the best friend of a generous welfare society. an industrial policy based on deepening the single market, fair trade, investment in innovation and research and development are forward-looking measures to shape our industrial policy and competitiveness. we need to maintain fair competition in the social market economy instead of pursuing protectionism. prime minister, i can say to you in full confidence that the commission is in total harmony with the priorities of the next presidency. sustainability for finns is part of who you are, and it must be the same for the european union if we are to have any kind of future at all. i know that, with you, we are in the safest pair of hands in this respect. this also applies to finland’s unwavering commitment to upholding the rule of law in the union. by the way, this is the first time that a member state –any member state – takes a leading role in this file. at a time when the rule of law is under pressure, i’m pleased to see this issue remains high on the presidency’s agenda, not only concerning the ongoing procedure under article 7, but also concerning the strengthening of the overall rule of law framework. the rule of law is the cornerstone on which all our values rest. it makes us who we are as europeans. but it is not a given and it can never be taken for granted. such is the case of course when it comes to the security of the european union. we must take responsibility for ourselves. this has been a priority of this commission since day-one, and today the cooperation we have at the european level is unprecedented. we have witnessed terrorist attacks and cyber attacks, and we have seen interference in our elections and democratic processes. this commission has done a lot to protect our citizens offline and online. europe is by far the safest place to live in the world. but the nature of security issues is changing by the day. we must constantly adapt. so i very much welcome the initiative of the finnish presidency in this regard, particularly regarding hybrid threats. prime minister, i really want to wish lots of energy and strength to your work of having the rotating presidency. i must admit that there are high expectations for the work that you are doing.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, welcome on behalf of the epp group and best of luck to you in fulfilling your duties over the next six months and bringing the european union forward. we are now starting the third finnish eu presidency and as we are starting the third finnish eu presidency, i still have a vivid memory of the first finnish eu presidency in the year 1999. it was the european council in helsinki in december 1999 which decided to start eu accession negotiations with six european countries: latvia, lithuania, bulgaria, slovakia, malta and my country, romania, were then invited to start eu accession negotiations that paved the way for the unification of europe and for our way into the european union and for this i would like to thank you today. today, we are also starting the finnish eu presidency at a very important moment in time. just yesterday we voted in favour of the first female president of the european commission, and it’s a pleasure to debate today with finland because finland was the first country in the world to grant full political rights to women. you are an example in gender equality and you are also a leader in europe when it comes to education, research, innovation, digitalisation, and these are all topics which my group is supporting. we are also ready to work with you and we are supporting you when it comes to strengthening the single market, to making the european economy more competitive, to safeguarding the external borders of the european union, and to defending the rule of law. the rule of law is a european value and the citizens of europe expect the european union to play an active role in defending this value. now i would like to focus on two topics which are both urgent and important. firstly, the budget of the european union for the next seven years. the budget is a primary tool which we, the european union, have at our disposal to transform our policy priorities into reality. this is why it is important. it is also urgent because the farmers of europe who receive subsidies from us, the students who receive erasmus scholarships, the villages, the cities, the regions which receive money for infrastructure and many other things need an answer from us on how much money they will receive, under what circumstances and for which projects. this is why i would kindly ask you to prioritise this dossier, to work with us, with parliament. we have a position, we are ready to negotiate. we should agree on this file as soon as possible. on the budget, i would also like to tell you that we do not share one of the approaches of the finnish presidency. you are saying funding for cohesion policy should be diminished and this house has said the following: ‘the european union should do more, so we need a robust budget’. cohesion is now needed more than ever in europe. it helps the poorer countries, but it also helps the richer countries; it helps us unleash the potential of our single market; it helps consumers and enterprises in all corners of the european union. that’s why i say don’t cut funding to cohesion. you will not find a partner in parliament on this. my second point, which is also urgent and important, prime minister, is the appointment of the first chief european public prosecutor of the european union. we the european parliament have held a hearing with three candidates. we have held two rounds of votes; in the budgetary control (cont) committee and in the civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee and we have decided that the prosecutor from romania, ms laura codruța kövesi, is the best equipped prosecutor to hold this job. this was also confirmed by a panel of 12 experts, and this is why, prime minister, i call upon you, so that the council gives confirmation of the appointment of ms laura codruța kövesi as the first european public prosecutor. this is urgent and important. this is urgent and important because the citizens of europe expect us to decisively move forward with eu funds in europe. on this note, i would like to wish you all the best for the finnish presidency and we’re looking forward to cooperating with you.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group i would like to extend a warm welcome to mr antti rinne, prime minister of finland. i also want to convey our sincere thanks to you for putting forward such an ambitious agenda for the next six months. we are very satisfied with your work programme. do not doubt that we will work with you, shoulder to shoulder, for a sustainable europe. the first sentence of the finnish presidency's programme says a lot about its ambition: strengthening common values and the rule of law, building a more inclusive european union and a europe that is a leader in the fight against climate change. sure, count on our political family to accomplish those fundamental goals. he is right: sustainability must be the common denominator for all european union action. we need to show by our actions that we are able to give equal attention to the deficit and to the future of our planet. it's time to act. inaction in the face of these problems will undermine our way of life. we have to respond to the demands and fears of millions of teenagers who have taken to the streets in support of the fight against climate change. for that reason, we call for an ambitious strategy that will enable us to implement the united nations sustainable development goals by 2030. this proposal should include a review of the european semester and the adoption of a new sustainable development pact incorporating a set of binding targets and indicators. this new pact must be legally binding, to ensure that economic, social and ecological objectives are equally important in the decision-making process. this is not a new demand, these priorities have already been called for by this european parliament. so, it's time to act. the next few months will be crucial for our common future, as a result of institutional changes and brexit. this presidency also coincides with the final phase of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. and in this area too we have to be ambitious, because you can have an agenda that suits your priorities, but if you do not have the budget to put it into practice, it cannot be realised. and that is why we need a solid budget for the period 2021-2027, which meets the needs and expectations of the citizens, which can incorporate the instruments of solidarity necessary to face the current challenges, and that is why we cannot accept cuts in cohesion policy, nor in the common agricultural policy. we must also ensure that no one is left behind, which is the ultimate reason why we must incorporate the social dimension into the process of european integration. it is a fundamental question, the social dimension. to achieve this goal, we must put in place a just transition fund and a global strategy to fight poverty, lifting 10 million people out of poverty by 2024 and another 15 million by 2030. we must set ourselves ambitious targets in the fight against poverty. these instruments will be fundamental steps forward in the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, which we need to strengthen. in this social, economic and ecological, sustainable europe to which we aspire, progress cannot benefit only a few. the economy must be at the service of the people. as a consequence, we also need a different economic policy. we hope that this presidency will put in place a european unemployment insurance scheme. the european union is a community of shared values. we therefore appreciate your commitment to upholding the rule of law and your aim of establishing a mechanism to link european union funds to compliance with our legal order. it is a fundamental question on which this parliament has also spoken. i would not like to conclude without mentioning one crucial issue: equality. we welcome your commitment to combating the gender pay gap and we also hope that your presidency will commit itself to assessing compliance with the istanbul convention to prevent and combat gender-based violence. count on the social democrats to bring about the change our citizens expect from europe.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr prime minister, on behalf of the renew group, i would like to welcome the three priorities which are yours, and which are also those of the group, and which i think are broadly shared by a majority of this european parliament. i would like to stress two particularly important issues of your presidency in the time allotted to me. the first is carbon neutrality. you have a historic responsibility to convince, by the end of the year, the countries that are still resisting carbon neutrality. you can count on this parliament to help you in this, provided of course that it is done in a fair way, because not all countries have the same starting point and we want a fair ecological transition. it's the condition of his success. so you can count on this parliament and you have that responsibility. we're counting on you and your energy. because, on climate, we are in a new phase. the commission's previous objectives were indeed recalled by mr katainen, but there are new objectives which were announced yesterday by the new commission president: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from minus 40% to minus 55%, a green deal within the first 100 days, a climate law, a climate bank. today, the political circumstances are right and you happen to be at the heart of this political appointment. you have the rotating presidency of the european union and the renew group is counting on you, your energy and your convictions to push this issue forward as never before. as regards the budget, which is also linked to the budget, i will mention a few of the priorities of our group which i believe are broadly shared by the other groups in the majority of this european parliament: the maintenance of the budget of the common agricultural policy, which goes hand in hand with the ecological transition of this common agricultural policy. this is the big deal that has to be done with farmers, territories and consumers. secondly, the question of the green part of this budget. the european parliament wants us to reach 30% as soon as possible and i think that with the new energy shown yesterday by the president of the commission, with the new objective of carbon neutrality, we must, as from this mff [multiannual financial framework], have 30% of climate-friendly expenditure and go beyond the targets already proposed by the commission, namely 25%. the last point is own resources. for a number of reasons, we must move forward in europe on own resources. there is one case which may succeed, and that is the tax on plastics as an own resource of the european union. i know that the member states are close to an agreement. this is a position which the european parliament has long advocated, and it is your responsibility to make it happen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i welcome the prime minister to the european parliament and to the european scene. good luck with the presidency. we’re also happy to hear your priorities, especially the one on the climate because it is very urgent. this is the one and only planet that we have, that we all live on and where we need to make sure that it is also possible to live on it in the future. while we absolutely share the ambition on the goals – and i think the rest of europe could learn a lot from finland in setting very ambitious targets – we all know, of course, that setting ambitious targets is only half – if that – of the job. the real job is in putting very concrete measures into place right now because in order to end up with good and ambitious targets you need to add ‘now’. it’s not enough to just put some numbers for later on into the paper. that’s why i would like to also ask you to push ahead on the reform of the agricultural policy. what we have right now on the table is far from enough to secure biodiversity and climate protection. we need a fresh start here, including with the multiannual financial framework (mff), where a lot of money is still being put into climate—harmful subsidies. we need a reversion here, we need to make sure that the money that we spend in the european union is put into places which will help the ecological and social transition, and there we need much more action. you’ve also mentioned the rule of law and we very much agree with that priority because it’s really urgent. therefore, i would also urge you to take up the issue of the parliamentary report on hungary, to discuss it in the council and to also make sure that parliament, our rapporteurs, are being invited and are being heard by the council, by the member states, and that it doesn’t fall under the carpet. refugees are another big issue. rescue at sea is right now not happening in the mediterranean and we cannot allow that people are drowning in the mediterranean and no one is there to help. i think you can lead by example, making sure that even if there is not an agreement of all member states – which is a pity, it’s a disgrace – still some member states can go ahead in order to stop this disgraceful and inhumane situation we have right now at our borders. lastly, i also want to congratulate finland for setting a precedent on the issue of transparency as council. i think in the past we had less interesting precedents being set there, with lobbyism, with sponsorship and i don’t know what. so it’s very good that you are taking a first step and are putting more transparency into lobby meetings. we hope that all the other member states and the future presidencies can learn from that and that maybe you will also find some space for even more transparency. we would have some ideas if you were interested. thank you very much and good luck and we’re ready to support you on those issues.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, thank you to prime minister rinne for your explanation. and of course i also wish the finnish presidency every success. as chairman of the committee on budgets of the european parliament, i will of course follow with great interest and attention the discussions in the council on the multiannual financial framework. it is clear that everyone here will have to work quickly and hard to achieve good results. i would also like to draw your attention to a number of specific dossiers. in a previous life we were both members of the eurogroup, and i therefore fully agree with your sense of urgency about the further completion of the banking union and the whole further institutional infrastructure that still needs to be completed around monetary union. i can, however, appreciate less your support for a budgetary instrument for the eurozone. if everyone respects the stability pact, there is no need, in my view, for a specific euro budget. the rapid implementation of the capital markets union, which you - as i understand it - also want to work on, is essential for the structural health of the euro. you also have a strong commitment to a climate-neutral europe. the transition to a circular economy plays a crucial role in this. we are in favour of a realistic, feasible, affordable and socially and economically responsible climate policy which offers all technologies opportunities and, more importantly, puts technology and research at the centre. a free offer of targets can really do nothing to contribute to the honourable objective of a climate-neutral europe. another matter on which i would like to draw the attention of the finnish presidency is the developments in the field of large technology companies. the debate on this is very much about whether they pay enough tax or not. the answer to that, of course, is no. but that's too narrow a discussion. i think we must definitely open this debate because we are dealing with a situation of monopoly, quasi-monopoly, which i believe is a threat to further socioeconomic developments in our region and even worldwide. finally, mr president, i would also like to draw your attention to the three catalan colleagues who have been elected but who have not been able to take their seats in the chamber until today. i find this particularly problematic and therefore call on you to intervene actively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i thank you for being here today and for discussing with us the programme for the coming months. our demands are very simple. first of all, we must solve the problem of immigration once and for all and find a system for distributing migrants rescued at sea and for redistributing asylum seekers. italy cannot and must not take responsibility for the european frontier alone. at the same time, the other big priorities: poverty, unemployment, corruption, climate change. the italian government has shown the way with its measures for the citizenship income, for more stable employment contracts, the fight against corruption and soon for the minimum wage. but now similar measures are needed at european level. i read your work schedule, i listened to your words. i see that many of the points coincide with ours. on these points, if you keep to your commitments, you will have our support here in parliament.
mr president, mr prime minister rinne, thank you for your comprehensive address and good luck and success to you in this important presidency. i am particularly pleased that finland, as the presidency, has a strong commitment to the rule of law. the european union is not just an economic area or a single market, it is also a community of values, and these values must be defended. it is important that the european parliament and the european commission have strong support from the member states in this respect, and it is excellent that finland is now firmly committed to this principle. if europe is to continue to prosper in the future, europe must be renewed. as vice-president katainen emphasised, our industry has to be reformed. we need to invest more in innovation, digitisation and education. only in this way can we strengthen and ensure sustainable prosperity in the future. what concrete initiatives does finland intend to promote this autumn to strengthen europe's competitiveness?
mr president, mr prime minister, it is a great pleasure to see you here. good luck and success in your challenges as president! it is clear that finland's first task as the eu's autumn presidency will be to deal with a number of practical matters, such as the multiannual financial framework or the reform of the agricultural policy. despite the difficult timing of the presidency, i would have liked to have had a moment to raise general issues relating to our greatest common challenge: combating climate change and also adapting to it. finland, as the presidency, has an exceptional example of how solutions to climate change can be found in forests and fields without having to convert natural resources into museums. we have experience in how to practice sustainable forestry and how to produce, in near-arctic conditions, the cleanest food in the world with a low carbon footprint. i would also ask you, prime minister rinne, to consider what could survive this period. could it be a practical finnish way of doing agriculture and met... (the speaker interrupts the speaker)
mr president, on the rule of law, diplomacy is still a useful and relevant tool in a mutual relationship between eu member states. under your presidency, which is known for its pragmatism, we have to avoid a hasty, selective and in particular politically biased approach to the issue. i hope that – although invisible – the security and sustainable exploitation of the baltic sea is still high on your agenda.
mr president, prime minister rinne, britain could crash out of the eu under the finnish presidency. both hunt and johnson are saying that the backstop in the withdrawal agreement must be removed. not modified! not adjusted! but removed! they are heading towards the cliff with both feet firmly on the accelerator. many in the north of ireland look on in horror. we do not want to crash out, or to be dragged out, of the eu. we voted to remain. prime minister rinne, there is a solution. the eu is committed to upholding the good friday agreement in all of its parts, and that includes the democratic right provided for in the good friday agreement to a referendum on irish unity. in 2017, the european council stated that if a democratic process leads to the reunification of ireland, the north of ireland will remain, of course, in the eu. therefore, this presidency of the council needs to acknowledge this legitimate pathway for all of ireland to stay in the eu.
mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister. finland’s presidency of the council will mark 25 years since the finnish people voted to join the eu in 1994. but as you celebrate your silver anniversary, the silver is being tarnished. the democratic values that you supported are being eroded as the commission undermines democracy by, in effect, seeking to annex northern ireland against the wishes of the uk. the commission needs reminding that they are not mentioned in article 50. it is the council who are the decision-makers and you hold the symbolic presidency of that council. the priority of your presidency is common values and the rule of law. i urge you – be strong, be brave. stand up for democracy – for our decision to leave. and dare to treat us as friends and neighbours. that is, and always was, the desire of british eurosceptics. the attitude of the commission risks the good relations between us. step up to the plate. uphold democracy. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as a new member for scotland, i congratulate prime minister rinne on putting climate change at the core of finland’s presidency programme. given the scale of the climate emergency we face, i hope finland will push for more ambitious eu climate change measures and targets, and you have scotland’s support in doing so. despite brexit, scotland will continue to play its part in safeguarding our planet for future generations. scotland is a world leader in tackling climate change and we are presently legislating for zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest, and for our economy to be carbon neutral by 2040. as scotland’s former climate change minister, who also represented scotland at the paris talks, i know that we are stronger and more effective by working together for a more sustainable europe. mr president, prime minister, colleagues, scotland is committed to remaining inside the european union, working with you in tackling the pressing challenges that we face. with that, i wish finland all the very best for a very successful presidency.
mr president, prime minister, in the past few days, unity has been the consistent message i hear from european representatives, from new commission president von der leyen yesterday to yourself today. millions of british people agree with the words that you just uttered, but together we are stronger. the priorities you’ve set out in your programme, such as tackling the climate emergency, protecting the rule of law and supporting refugees from around the world, are global challenges that require strong cooperation at the multilateral level. my country and yours cannot address these issues alone. your programme says brexit should not dominate the eu agenda at the expense of other items. i agree and no one is more fatigued by brexit than us brits. but we do need time. the ticking clock which is article 50 has done none of our countries any favours. that is why i appeal to you personally and other european leaders to give us an extension for as long as possible to sort out our own mess. european values are british values ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome prime minister rinne’s words on unity and sustainability. but, prime minister, you’ll know as i do that words are not enough. we’ve not yet seen evidence that eu leaders have truly heard the voices of those calling for change: the school climate strikers, the extinction rebellion protesters, the millions who voted green in may. european leaders have been too slow to respond, too keen to conserve the status quo, rather than conserving the planet. we don’t have time to waste, and we can’t go at the pace of the slowest. so i urge you, please, as a first step, deliver on your promise – zero carbon by 2050. get the council to put its money where its mouth is and then to increase its level of climate ambition further. another big issue facing your presidency is brexit. this is not a little local difficulty on the margins. the brexiteers threaten our common european values. they’re funded by dodgy sources. they don’t care about those left behind. they’ve poisoned our political debate with lies and pandered to extremists. those of us who are both british and european, who defend fairness, openness and truth, ask you to stand with us together, zusammen, ensemble. (applause)
mr president, the european union and its governments, their allies and their policies are responsible for the imperialist wars and the waves of refugees and migrants. the present miserable situation in which they find themselves is the unanimous decision of all the governments in the european councils. the announcement by president von der leyen of an increase in the number of european border guards to 10,000 signals an intensification of the repression against refugees and more refugee deaths in the mediterranean. in greece, the new democracy government continues to promote the european union's inhumane policy against refugees and migrants, which was co-designed and promoted by the syriza government in an unrelenting manner with eu-turkey-style agreements, increased border repression, deportations and criminal refusal to rescue refugees at sea by member state governments. the confinement in moriah-style hellholes, with the stamp of syriza, is now being praised by the new republic government, which is bidding on new reactionary measures, such as the transfer of responsibilities to the ministry of civil protection and the painful reversal of this already limited access of refugees and asylum seekers to medical care. we are fighting against the eu-turkey agreement, for the immediate closure of all the wretched hot spots for the transport of refugees and migrants to their final destination countries, against schengen and dublin, against all these anti-people laws, against the system of exploitation and imperialist wars.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. humanity in the mediterranean. for too long the council has blocked any reform of the common asylum system, including the dublin regulation. the mediterranean rescue operation has been suspended, and this is a contemptible game played with asylum seekers, a political ineptitude played on the backs of people. refugees are being pushed back to libya, to be trafficked, tortured and forced to work. and to enforce this treacherous game, member states are criminalising those who save lives and do what is actually the duty of member states of all member states. the european union a community of values? the commission also needs to clarify matters, for example by revising the aid directive to give legal certainty to aid workers. saving lives is not a crime, sea rescue is not human trafficking! the commission must also act. mrs von der leyen spoke yesterday in glowing terms of a new start for the asylum system. starting over? we need legislation on humanitarian visas and contributions to binding resettlement guidelines as soon as possible. these too would contribute to an orderly policy on migration and refugees. and furthermore, this house has already found a large majority for shared responsibility, including the distribution of refugees. the european parliament has done its job, we have taken majority decisions to respond to the challenges. this must be done now!
mr president, madam minister, mrs tytti tuppurainen, thank you for your commitment, and thank you too, mr commissioner, mr christos stylianides. ursula von der leyen said yesterday morning that no one should die in the mediterranean. you and i share that goal. ngos are currently the main actors in this humanitarian aid and they are naturally partners. but as my colleague dragoş tudorache said earlier, we must, europe must also take matters into its own hands. we know well, as has already been said, that the question is the solidarity needed between the countries of the union to ensure the rescue at sea of people who embark on the migratory routes, sometimes at the risk of their lives. we know that at present only a few states receive the majority of migrants and that they must in fact take care of them. we must reform our asylum policy. the urgent need now is to provide a temporary mechanism to provide this humanitarian aid. so here are my questions, madam minister, commissioner: firstly, how can the european union act to achieve this humanitarian objective quickly? secondly, you mentioned that frontex rescues tens of thousands of people at sea every year. how do you envisage strengthening its role, and by what means?
mr president, the future of europe will be defined by courage or cowardice, by compassion or callousness, by hope or fear. carola rackete, captain of the sea-watch 3, courageously sailed into the depths of the mediterranean cemetery to snatch her fellow humans from the jaws of death. in this, she is a living embodiment of a fairer, kinder europe, and our fellow brothers and sisters crossing the mediterranean deserve more than just a statement. they deserve the openness of our arms, the safety of our welcomes, and the warmth of our european embraces. in contrast, matteo salvini is a coward. a coward because what kind of grown man watches a child drowning, gasping for breath and turns his back? (jeers from the id group) a coward who boasts about detaining and arresting a lifesaver. a coward who decides to make an enemy of the victims of war and those who have been dispossessed. to salvini and all his supporters who i can see here: you are all going to lose, i promise you that, because at the end of the day those who have courage in their hearts and want to succeed – we are going to win. (applause)
thank you very much, mr magid. aside from the fact that it's common for us to stand up when we talk about what you've done -- maybe i'm a little old-fashioned -- i'd be very obliged if you would consider taking your headgear off when you speak. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, illegal migration in the mediterranean is a challenge faced on a daily basis by individual member states, often without specific union assistance, which remains paralysed by particular interests, worldview disputes and bureaucratic red tape. rescuing migrants at sea is our moral obligation, there can be no dispute about that, but the fact is that it does, to some extent, encourage migrants to try to enter europe illegally and encourages irresponsible behaviour that puts lives at risk. the solution to this situation is not to abandon the rescue of migrants because that would be inhuman and against everything the union stands for, but to better cooperate with the authorities of african countries. we must ensure that rescued migrants are returned to african soil, but that is not the end of our concern. they must be returned to a safe environment where their human rights are respected. we will thus discourage illegal migration, ensure respect for international law and order, but also protect people's lives, health and dignity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i stand here to pay my respects to the migrants who have died in the mediterranean and at the eu's external borders. from their families, from their friends, from their parents, from their children, from their elders, from their young men. we're talking about 40,000 people who were recorded by ngos probably died. 40,000 people. there is not even an official eu statistic on the deaths we have in the mediterranean or elsewhere at the eu's external borders. there is no such thing, and i'm telling you, i think the least part of human dignity, the least part of human dignity, is to be recorded as dead. we owe it to these people, ladies and gentlemen. and i'm here to thank those who, despite salvini, despite seehofer and his associates and whatever their names are, save lives. like the crew of sea-watch, mission lifeline, youth rescue, sea-eye, they're heroes to me, i'll give you that. why would you do that? because they are defending the right to life, and i can tell you that no one ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, i want to make it very clear and unequivocal that the right to life is always at the forefront of any of our conceptions of asylum, refugees, migratory flows or border control. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is because we have not shown solidarity with these states, because we have not solved the problem of distribution at european level, that phenomena like salvini, of hostility and discrimination, have arisen, and since i am speaking of salvini, i would like to say that it is absolutely absurd that there is a young portuguese man, miguel duarte, who is being tried in italy for having saved lives in the mediterranean. those who save lives in the mediterranean should not be prosecuted, they are not committing a crime, they are preventing crimes.
mr president, commissioner stylianides, we are again discussing humanitarian aid in the mediterranean. is it not tremendous that we have debated it a hundred times in the last parliamentary term and that we debated it in the last plenary session of the last parliamentary term, and that we are debating it again in this first plenary session of the new european parliament? the reason is simple, and is that there are, without a doubt, aspects of the tragedy in the mediterranean which escape even the enormous work that you have carried out in your police station, such as the population explosion in africa and the tortured neighbourhood on the southern shore of the mediterranean. but this parliament has demanded of the commission and the council what is required of europe. first of all, we must change our outlook, because it is the absence of legal pathways to the european union that means that those who want to try to enter, fleeing persecution or hunger, have to risk their lives by putting themselves in the hands of criminal organizations that exploit people, and particularly the most vulnerable: defenceless women and girls. but we also demand that this response be european, respectful of international humanitarian law, of european law itself - article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which requires solidarity. because the answer cannot be malta, it cannot be italy, it cannot be greece, it cannot be spain, but it must be a common european response. we therefore call on the council to unblock the treaty, the dublin regulation and the asylum package as soon as possible, and to take account of the european parliament's mandate to establish legal access routes to the european union, including humanitarian visas. and we demand that the commission immediately start reforming the scandalous aid directive, which is the one that allows the criminalisation of humanitarian aid. because we have said many times that humanitarian aid at sea by vessels such as sea-watch or open arms can under no circumstances be criminalised, nor can such persons be prosecuted or charged or put on trial in a court of law or a criminal court. because saving lives at sea is not a crime; because the work carried out by the cooperators, the doctors or the captains or the captains of those vessels, like carola rackete, can in no case bring them to criminal trial. the urgent task is therefore to change the humanitarian outlook, to establish legal access routes to the european union, to reform the aid directive so that it is no longer possible to criminalise and make it a crime to save lives at sea. we must not have to debate it a hundred times again in this parliament! let's get to work as soon as possible! the finnish presidency has stated its commitment and we take its word for it that the dublin regulation should be unblocked as soon as possible, the common european asylum system completed, the aid directive reformed, and we should not have to remain in this psalmody, which ritually laments deaths at sea in every plenary session of the european parliament.
madam president, on a point of order i just want to point out my frustration, in all honesty, with the previous president for telling me to take my hat off when there’s clearly no procedural rules meaning i have to take my hat off, while at the same time not calling on certain members to be quiet when they were shouting. so can you please pass on the message to the previous president to concentrate on chairing the meeting and not so much what people are wearing? (applause)
madam president, if i were a person threatened with drowning in the mediterranean, i would spit on the words of some of our colleagues who do not care about the plight of these people. humanitarian action must not be neutral but impartial. it must not be neutral, in the sense of equating the victims with their tormentors, because it must always side with the weak and the endangered. it must be impartial because humanitarian action does not discriminate between victims, regardless of their origin, nationality or opinion. exposure to danger, persecution or war is sufficient to deploy it. the principles thus defined, notably by henry dunant, have been codified in the meantime. they now form the basis of international humanitarian law and, consequently, of maritime law. is mr salvini the only one responsible for the deplorable situation in the mediterranean? no, i'm not going. those who refuse to welcome people rescued in the mediterranean are equally responsible. there are therefore no extenuating circumstances to justify refusing to help those in danger. indifference, in this circumstance, is not an opinion, it's a crime. i therefore think it is appropriate to ask some of our member states, which have nothing to do with humanitarian law and the principles underlying it, to return to compliance with the standards. finally, i would ask the future commission to continue to allocate this portfolio to a commissioner who will have no other function than that of commissioner for humanitarian action. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card question. – i want to ask you whether you think that, by saying that anybody who has qualms about an open humanitarian process is guilty of a crime, is not letting the eu off the hook. the eu created fortress europe. the eu is ultimately responsible for those drowning in the mediterranean. it is an absolute nerve to have a go at nation-states who dare do what? assert their national sovereignty to make decisions about who they welcome. it’s the eu with blood on its hands or rather those drowned people. don’t try and play the humanitarian card in order to guilt-trip people in this room for simply saying that nation-states should be able to decide who they have live in their countries, and don’t say that you are more humanitarian than others because you hang your heart on your sleeve in this house. (applause)
madam president, i have to say it’s been a long time since i’ve had so much rubbish and hypocrisy as i’ve heard in here this afternoon. yesterday we heard the new commission president talk about gender diversity; not once did she mention about ethnic diversity, which i think is quite a hypocrisy there. if we want to see diversity in the european institutions then the best way to do that is to wait for the cleaning staff that leave here in the mornings and watch the faces of the white meps that come in as they are leaving. we’ve got scaremongers who would have us believe that the uk would turn into a racist society when we leave this institution and believe me, we will be leaving, but we will continue to lead this fight and be one of the most ethnically diverse countries represented in this parliament. so basically that’s all i have to say on this. hypocrisy all the way. disgusting.
madam president, anyone with compassion would be deeply moved by the situation in the mediterranean. people are in danger and we have the power in our hands to save lives. but also our english channel is becoming a dangerous crossing point for refugees. last month 43 people in small boats landed on south—east england’s coasts. traffickers are locked up every week in our courts. i prosecuted many of them, and brexit will make things much worse. it will kill the cooperation we need to save refugees’ lives, to arrest human traffickers and to repair the failed states that create refugees. europe must use its power to rebuild good government in failed states. europe can rise to this challenge. people want to stop brexit so britain can be part of this important work.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to catch your eye. it seems to me that this is one of the most complex and challenging issues that the eu faces currently, and there is no right answer for it. at the moment it seems that there is a clash between what europe wants and what individual nations need. only by the new policy addressing all of these things will we be able to resolve it. we absolutely have to do more in africa, but we have to make sure we reward the right people, not the wrong people. the second thing is we must absolutely have strong borders but, when people arrive in europe, what we see is chaos. and so we must make sure that our own systems of processing migrants, returning those who need to go back, go back, but those who are allowed to stay can stay. in doing that, we must absolutely support the national countries who are having to face that – and i think of places like italy and greece and the local communities who are really struggling to deal with it on behalf of the rich countries. the third thing, or the final thing that we must do is we must make ‘if you want to do it, all the nations will have to pay’. it won’t be the uk, because we’re leaving, but it is going to be very, very expensive and you will all have to pay.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, our cities are dying. almost every european living in a city is now exposed to air pollution at a level that is damaging to human health. 400 000 europeans are killed by air pollution every year, 40 000 in the uk alone. countless more are becoming sick, and the cost to our health services and businesses runs into billions. there are some in this chamber who deny that this is a european issue and say that the eu should not tell member states what to do, but air pollution does not respect national borders. one country’s pollution affects another country’s people. we in the european institutions are the last line of defence for our citizens, and we must act now, decisively and quickly. yesterday i told ms von der leyen that my support for her election would depend on immediate action on the climate emergency. one day later, i am calling for that radical action. friends, parliament established its position on clean air earlier this year. it’s time now to deliver what we have been asking for: clean air, better health, fewer deaths.
mr president, air pollution is causing nothing less than a public health crisis. new research shows that worldwide, air pollution is now killing more people than smoking, and while poor air quality affects everyone, the burden of disease is highest among the poorest. in the towns and cities of the north-west of england – my region – more than 2 000 deaths per year can be attributed to air pollution. so we must radically transform and implement technologies and clean energy in transport, industry and heating systems. the green new deal makes all this easily possible. let’s shift to a green travel system, investment in cycling infrastructure, walking-friendly streets, public transport and getting the polluting vehicles off our streets. with an active, sustainable travel system we can improve air quality, increase the quality of life, and save lives of citizens across all of europe.
mr president, as a british liberal democrat, i was elected to keep britain in the european union, and one of my main reasons for wanting to be here is to help protect our shared environment. dirty air knows no borders. poor air quality has more than ten times the health impact than road traffic accidents, and it is the number one cause of premature death in the eu. in this age of innovation and advanced technology, this is not acceptable. we can do better; we must do better. but to do that, we need more ambition and more scientific research. we need to work with member states to enforce targeted ultra-low emission zones in our small towns as well as in our cities. every market town, every small town has a junction or a road where the locals know that air pollution is out of control. there is a clear case to charge dirty drivers on health grounds and, as they say, we have the technology to help them stop doing that, and now we need to use it.
author. – madam president, we should all be proud of this resolution that has the support of the five largest groups in our european parliament. this is important because europe – our 28 states – is strongest when we are united. we share an unshakable commitment to democracy and human rights, not just for ourselves but for every person on this planet. for weeks now, up to two million people in hong kong have protested on their streets, protests against an extradition bill brought by the hong kong government, which is not elected by its people, which would see people rendered to mainland china where, according to countless ngo reports, torture, unfair trials and forced confessions are endemic. this is entirely at odds with the reassurances that were given to the hong kong people when that territory was transferred in 1997. police have met these protests with force and violence that is unnecessary and it must be clear that here in europe we support hong kong protesters. we support their call for the government to fully withdraw the bill and for an independent inquiry into the police’s actions. we call for free and fair elections. we say to the people of hong kong that the people of europe stand with you. we say to the governments of hong kong and china that we implore you to respect the dignity and the rights of every single individual and then together we can build a world of peace and justice for everyone. (applause)
author. – madam president, i was asked by my constituent, jody rae from edinburgh, to raise this matter and i’m proud to do so. can i ask members to cast their minds back for a few seconds to when they were children? most of us will have had a warm, loving and safe childhood. contrast that with the childhood of the children that we are talking about today. they were brought up surrounded by men with guns, by illness, hunger, dirt, poverty and fear, so bad that their parents took them on a perilous journey in pursuit of life, liberty and happiness, as guaranteed under the united states declaration of independence. then they found themselves in detention camps, surrounded by men with guns, by illness, hunger, dirt, poverty and fear. the united states of america, one of the richest countries in the world, does not have to do this. it is the only country in the world that has not ratified the convention on the rights of the child. mr trump, give these children a present for the 30th anniversary of the convention: sign it!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fact that we as the epp have tabled a separate text on this subject is due to the fact that we also see the problem of migration in america, but we take a more nuanced view than other groups in the house. there is a great discomfort in our group about using the instrument of the urgency decision to address our important partner the united states in cases of violations of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. our house has other instruments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not at one in the eu and in the member states in dealing with migration itself, and we are not without faults. it is therefore not appropriate for us to criticise our closest international partners in this way at the very beginning of this new parliament. we have not even taken the time to find common positions on difficult subjects in the specialised committees. that is why we will not be able to agree to the outcome of this resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the united states is facing an unprecedented migration crisis. a total of 700 000 migrants have been apprehended since october 2018 and more than 12 000 unaccompanied children were detained in may only. at least 197 people died trying to cross the us-mexican border this year alone, and the trump administration is responding to this crisis with violent push-backs of asylum seekers, indefinite detention of migrants, denying them the most basic needs, and the traumatising separation of children from their families. and just this week, u.s. immigration customs and enforcement started large-scale raids on undocumented migrants. as a european, i know very well that migration is a global phenomena and the eu and the us share the very same challenges at their borders, but it is also up to both sides of the atlantic to bear collective responsibility and to show a dignified way forward. and to mr gahler, just a reaction to his speech – i understand the position of the epp but perhaps it’s better not to first spend four hours negotiating a joint text and then pull back three minutes before the deadline. (applause)
president. - we are talking about the southern border of the united states. we could also talk about the southern border of europe. but i don't hear anything about that! there is therefore no reason for moral arrogance or condemnation of the united states. in 2017, more than 3,000 migrants drowned in the mediterranean sea. on the southern border of the united states, far fewer people have drowned in the rio grande, and about 400 people have died. the problem in europe is therefore much greater than in the united states, but we condemn the united states! let's check our own house first. a migration policy cannot be pursued without effective borders. only when there are effective limits can you say who can enter, what criteria there are, who cannot, where work must be found. you can negotiate with other countries, countries of origin, countries of transit, and so on. but if we don't have that, we're going to have mass immigration, we're going to have more and more people, and that's going to cause tensions in big cities in europe. and we shouldn't have to. so instead of looking at the splinter in the eye of the united states, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament and the european commission, you should look at the beam in your own eye.
madam president, last year we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. yet, we see a clear decline in respect for these rights all over the world. never before have human rights been so much at the heart of the news on the continents that once bore these universal values. do we need to remind you that one of the founding documents of the united states is the bill of rights? and yet, today, 3,000 families have been forcibly separated at the mexican border, due to a radical, anti-immigrant policy, led by the trump administration. mental health professionals warned that the separation and conditions of detention of minors would undoubtedly cause immediate and lasting trauma. my dear colleagues, a child is a child first. this is the starting point for any discussion of the rights of migrant children. the best interests of the child, as the first consideration at all stages of the migration process, must be the priority there, and here in europe as well. in conclusion, i would like to quote eleanor roosevelt, who said: "where do human rights begin? where men, women and children seek justice, equal dignity, without discrimination". if we do not defend them close to home, we will be seeking progress in the rest of the world in vain.
a uachtaráin, cinnte is ceart droch-chleachtadh ag daoine i meiriceá regarding the children to be scagadh to the parents to be chased. is droch-chleachtadh ach is amach is agus déanann sé an-díobháil of the leanaí go háirithe. but at the same time, in this report, we are looking at some things, especially with regard to the use of force in the united states against an enemy, which can be a very similar thing to the use of force against ourselves. the commission has also published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. therefore, when all things are in order, and are in order, and are in order, and are in order, and are in order, then the same things are possible in all countries. thank you.
madam president, the situation on the us-mexico border is growing more severe by the day, as the us government fails to have any action to adequately protect vulnerable migrants and it is separating families fleeing from political turmoil and conflict in latin america. women and girls are especially vulnerable, and there is evidence of widespread sexual abuse and harassment at detention centres by us border and government staff. this situation is racialised and gendered. the president’s remarks this week, and at the rally last night, telling four congresswomen to go back to the places where they came from, must be condemned in the strongest terms. we are not only witnessing a backlash against women’s rights with these attacks, and also against migrants and refugees, but also an attack on human rights in general and those who defend them. we must send a clear message that racist and sexist violations of human rights and the attacks on those defending them have no place in any modern democracy.
madam president, i am a child and grandchild of refugees, so it pains me deeply to watch the horrors that the migrants and refugees are undergoing in american border camps. the united states have long been the defender of human rights. this is the country that saved millions of europeans in two world wars; the country that founded the united nations. their proud history is being tarnished by this shameful episode. this is not just about the families who fled violence and abuse, only to be met with more violence and abuse; this is also about the european union’s credibility. how can we call on others to uphold human rights if we refuse to condemn the failings of our own allies? we must tell america: close the camps!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, we are following with great attention the unfolding situation of migrants across the central american region. thousands aim to cross the us-mexico border in the hope of reaching safety and building a livelihood for themselves, their families and their children. the reasons are manifold and many were noted in the earlier debate of the previous european parliament on 14 november 2018. while the situation on the ground requires urgent responses by the relevant authorities, the root causes of the migratory flows that drive many to the us’s southern borders have long been present. only a persistent, systematic and coordinated joint effort by the countries concerned in the international community may lead to an improvement on the ground. the european union is concerned by reports about the current situation in the border areas. the separation of families of migrants, the cases of ill—treatment of migrants, and of course the conditions in detention centres, as you have already emphasised. the european union continues to stand firmly on the side of human dignity. we reiterate the importance of protecting human rights and respecting international law, while we also recall the right of each country to manage its borders. the european union’s policy aims to promote regular and well-managed migration while addressing the root causes of irregular migration, enforced displacement and of course fighting human trafficking and smuggling. as the european union, we have undertaken a strong effort in supporting the countries in the region, based on the principle of partnership and international cooperation in addressing migratory cooperation and challenges. our policy builds on a comprehensive approach, which includes, first of all, saving lives, and secondly, ensuring protection and support, as well as legal pathways for those in need of international protection. the european union’s long-standing cooperation efforts towards the countries of the so-called ‘northern triangle’ – honduras, guatemala, el salvador – are in fact addressing the main drivers of migration. european union cooperation has been strengthening the rule of law and fighting crime and gang violence, but also violence against women and vulnerable groups such as lgbti or indigenous people. european union funds have been provided to address the dire consequences of climate change, in particular in terms of food security, and to promote the creation of jobs, along with the opening of our markets. in addition, in line with what we commit to do with our mexican counterparts under the modernised eu-mexico association agreement, we invite the us and mexico to cooperate on migration issues to foster safe, regular and orderly migration to prevent irregular migration, to counter migrant smuggling and trafficking in persons. we also call for the protection of migrant women and children, particularly those who are unaccompanied, as well as other vulnerable groups. as the european union, we stand ready to work together with the countries concerned – the us, mexico and central american countries – in addressing this issue. in this respect, we support the el salvador-guatemala-honduras-mexico comprehensive development plan, as proposed by the united nations economic commission for latin america and the caribbean, currently being developed and discussed with partners in the region which, as you know, aims at addressing the root causes of irregular migration.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
i have been informed that a delegation led by mr petro poroshenko, former president of ukraine, is present in the diplomatic gallery to attend today’s debate and the vote. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to welcome you here, and wish you fruitful discussions, meetings, and a nice day in strasbourg. (applause)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on russia, notably the situation of environmental activists and ukrainian political prisoners (2019/2734(rsp)).
author. – madam president, throughout this week speakers have affirmed our european commitment to the highest democratic principles. and after all, it’s only after trying our hardest to live up to those principles in this house that we earn the right to criticise others. now, however, we must stand up with equal passion for our sisters and brothers elsewhere who face much greater threats to their democratic rights. and most of all, we must cry out against the oppression of well-intentioned people protesting against environmental crimes, for it is they, not those who suppress them, who correctly discern which are the greatest threats to peace and survival. i invite you, colleagues, to join me in condemning the actions of the russian authorities against these activists and organisations. their plight is our plight, and their campaign for a clean place to live is a campaign for our world too. these voices must not be silenced. (applause)
madam president! when the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe restored russia's voting rights, advocates hoped that russia would come to respect human rights more, including the release of imprisoned ukrainian sailors and other political prisoners. unfortunately, russia has not only failed to do so, but has continued to intensify its repression. the so-called moscow city duma elections last weekend turned into a breach of democratic standards, and attempts to protest before that were severely repressed. russia has demonstrated its environmentally repressive culture in the case of the astravyansk nuclear power plant, where rusatom, despite protests from environmentalists and findings of violations of the osce convention, is finishing construction of an unsafe power plant right on the border of the european union. the european union must use all possible sanctions against those russian officials who violate human rights and persecute people, journalists and environmentalists.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you so much for this opportunity to discuss the human-rights situation in russia and, in particular, the situation of both illegally detained ukrainians and environmental activists. the european union has repeatedly expressed concern at the fate of all ukrainian citizens illegally detained in the crimean peninsula and in russia. these include crimean tatars and others who have opposed the illegal annexation as well as other ukrainians. we continue to call for the immediate and unconditional release of the captured ukrainian servicemen and their vessels, as has been ordered by the international tribunal for the law of the sea. diplomats from the eu delegations in our member states’ embassies in moscow regularly attend the court hearings and are in constant contact with the lawyers. the european union also regularly raises individual cases – including those of oleg sentsov, pavlo hryb and edem bekirov, who, as you know, require urgent medical assistance – in bilateral meetings with russian representatives and in public statements, including in the council of europe and also in the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. russia holds special responsibility for respecting human rights in the illegally annexed crimean peninsula. the rights to legal counsel, access to consular officers and health care must be fully respected. the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights has noted that crimean tatars continue to be disproportionately affected by police raids and prosecutions in respect of offences related to terrorism and extremism, in proceedings that fall short of human-rights standards. all pending cases of violations and abuses should be thoroughly investigated. the human-rights situation in non-government-controlled areas of eastern ukraine, where russia plays a significant role, is also deeply worrying. the overall environment for human-rights and civil-society activists in russia is characterised by restriction on fundamental freedoms. at a time of international awareness of climate issues, violent assaults on individual environmental activists, such as andrei rudomakha and his colleagues, and the judicial harassment of others, such as the non—governmental organisation eco-defence, are deeply troubling. we recall that it is the duty of the russian authorities to respect and protect the right of all illegally detained ukrainian citizens and the rights of russian citizens and activists, in line with russia’s international human-rights commitments. i conclude by reaffirming our strong commitment to, and support for, human rights and civil society, including environmental activists in russia, as well as illegally detained ukrainians in particular. the european union has consistently called on russia to ensure that human-rights violations in russia and the crimean peninsula are investigated and that accountability and justice for victims are ensured. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. we are witnessing a long-term escalation of confrontation, promoted by the usa and nato and to which the eu has joined, against the russian federation. this escalation of confrontation includes the sanctions that the eu has successively renewed against this country. it was also integrated, it is good not to forget, the fascist coup d'état in ukraine in 2014. the resolution conceals the warmongering policy of encirclement of russia, which the us and nato have been pursuing, particularly since 1999, with successive enlargements of nato and the installation of military assets near the russian borders. the whitewashing of the ukrainian regime and its policy of oppression and war against its own people, of the violence and action of ukrainian fascist groups against ukrainian populations, has been particularly serious and significant. this situation has several negative implications. more isolation, impoverishment and insecurity for the people. this must be countered by a policy of peace and inclusion.
in writing. this weekend, ukrainian filmmaker and political prisoner oleh sentsov celebrated his sixth birthday in a russian prison. he and many other prisoners of conscience in russia are not content with russia's occupation of crimea, which marks five years since it began this year. oleg sentsov received the sakharov prize last year and went on hunger strike. the russian regime, however, was not moved. even the eu sanctions, however much we must insist on maintaining them, haven't changed much. that's why we need to take a stronger stand against human rights abuses in russia. that is the attitude i expect from the new commission president. as long as there are political prisoners in russia and russia does not respect international law, president putin and his government are not a reliable partner for us.
madam president, just 20 seconds of colleagues’ time, because this is the last sitting. we’ve all just been elected as representatives of the people and legislators. for democracy it is essential that elected representatives can do their work freely and safely, and that applies to representatives around the world, including in the united states. i note that there are four members of the us congress who have recently been subject to hate speech and intimidation and harassment, cheered on by nobody less than the president himself. just last week, there was a rally that was addressed by president trump himself... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam in 't veld, may i just say, could you wind up? it isn’t quite a point of order but i don’t want to disrupt it. there are other speakers who want to come in. gentlemen and ladies, could i ask you to show some respect? (applause)you have the floor. and please listen with respect. please listen.
madam president, one representative in particular was targeted at a rally where president trump spoke and they were chanting ‘send her back’, because she has an immigration background. i think it is the duty of this house to condemn those attacks and express solidarity with those representatives. (sustained applause)
as i said, colleagues, it wasn’t quite a point of order. but we are at the... calm down please. madam fox, you have a request?
madam president, a question and point of order. is there a list of offensive banned words that can’t be used in this parliament? as a new mep, i ask this question because yesterday a colleague was reprimanded, indeed humiliated, for using the word ‘rubbish’ in his speech, which seemed rather disproportionate, especially when we have seen people wearing garments with far more offensive words. i ask this genuinely. has this parliament got a secret list? because in the name of fairness and free speech, new meps like me need to get the ‘verboten’ word list, so we don’t make any more mistakes in the future. (applause)
i know that there are more new members then old in the house, and i think as one of the old ones, we’re flexible and we won’t get upset about words. however, i do admit that there was a former colleague here from the united kingdom and we had a frank exchange of views when he would use the word ‘rubbish’ in just about all his sentences. so we will see if there is a list and we certainly will provide it, but to the best of my knowledge, i have not been provided with one. i think we all know as adults, though, when words are offensive, and perhaps if we use our own judgment that might be best. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, i refer to rule 39 of the rules of procedure, in which parliament undertakes to ensure respect for human rights. the italian minister of the interior, matteo salvini, wants to resume the ethnic registration of sinti and roma living in italy. this is against the law and the law. we all know whose instrument this type of recording was and what objectives it pursued. salvini is putting innocent people, women and children on the streets, just because of their ethnicity. i call on parliament to take a much stronger stand against anti-gypsyism and right-wing populists such as salvini and to condemn them. this policy is an attack on european values and a disgrace to europe. this is pure racism! (applause from the right)
mr zanni, you’d like to respond, i’m sure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is shameful that a member of parliament should think of using the rules of procedure to attack a government legitimately elected by the italian people. shame on you!
madam president, on a point of order: we have some 500 new members of the european parliament for whom this is a new procedure and you are going much too fast. it’s almost too fast to press the buttons so we just need to pace it a little. (applause)
mr horwood is absolutely correct. i have been known to be quite fast on the button here, so you are absolutely right to stop me in my tracks. out of respect for the new members, i will now go at a more reasonable pace, and apologies if i caused any distress.
madam president, exactly five years ago, malaysia airlines plane mh 17 was downed over the eastern part of ukraine and 298 people vanished. it was an act of human brutality and a crime against humanity. an international investigation commission has established those who are in charge with the russian military and equipment. there is nothing mentioned in this resolution, but colleagues, we can’t forget this crime and should bring those responsible to justice. (applause)
that concludes the vote.
colleagues, i have an announcement to make. i am proposing that the provisions of rule 202 be waived and that the minutes of yesterday’s sitting be approved here and now, and i am asking the chamber if there any objections. as that is not the case, the minutes are approved, and i shall forward them with the resolutions adopted during this part-session to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have refrained from voting in favour of this resolution because it contains too many political definitions and too many sides. i firmly believe that neither the european union nor the european parliament should take extreme positions and try to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign states, especially since before this resolution we voted for another one which concerned relations on the so-called us-mexico border and in the other resolution there were again extreme comments, political assessments, an attempt to pursue an extreme policy on migration and illegal migrants, an attempt to justify illegal migration. i cannot accept this kind of behavior and this kind of politics. i firmly believe that countries should negotiate at the government level and make their decisions at the government level. i think that such resolutions do not help bilateral relations and do not work in the interests of the citizens of the member states of the european union.
the session of the european parliament is adjourned, our sitting is closed and i wish you all a very happy summer holidays. i look forward to seeing you back in the chamber in september.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 july 2019.
i have some communications. one is a matter which has caused us great sadness and grief, because there has been the sudden death of a portuguese member of parliament, mr andré jorge dionísio bradford, who has deprived his country, his party and the european parliament of his personal and political commitment. he was very young, 48 years old. a life dedicated to civic commitment in the defence of democracy, in the enhancement of the political autonomy of the azores, recognized and praised by all for his kindness, for his oratory, for his solid cultural and personal formation of great ethical relevance. he was recently elected to the european parliament and faced a new and important challenge. in remembering andré's memory and example, i express my deep regret and solidarity with his family, his friends, the socialist and democratic group and all my colleagues in the european parliament.
there is also another painful report, because last week there were serious floods in europe which affected a large area of south-eastern and central spain and caused river flooding in large areas of the provinces of valencia, alicante, murcia, almería, granada, albacete and madrid. six people have lost their lives, tens of thousands have been forced to abandon their homes and workplaces. on behalf of this house i would like to express our closeness and condolences to the victims and their families and at the same time express our deep solidarity and affection to those affected by these floods. i would also like to express our appreciation for the tireless work of the emergency services, the incredible effort made by the rescue teams of the various special forces and all the volunteers who are taking part in the rescue operations. it is in memory of our colleague and the victims in spain, and as a gesture of closeness to their families, that i invite you to stand and observe a minute's silence. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
mr president, last week a prisoner exchange took place between ukraine and russia, and i think much to our joy oleg sentsov and 24 ukrainian marines have been freed. but i think this house also agrees that this prisoner exchange should not come at the detriment of finding justice for the victims of mh17. handing over one of the key suspects, mr tsemakh, to moscow was very painful, not only for the victims but also for their families. so i hope this house can send a signal that of course we stand in solidarity with ukraine, but we also expect them to live up to the un resolution on finding the perpetrators who are responsible for shooting down mh17. (applause)
the minutes of the meeting of 18 july 2019 and the texts approved were distributed. are there any comments?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment cyprus is surrounded by the turkish navy. at the same time, it has installed hydrocarbon exploration platforms in the european exclusive economic zone of cyprus. at the same time, mr cavusoglu threatens daily with the colonization of the city of famagusta, which is protected by resolutions of the united nations and the european parliament. the european parliament must take action. the european council has decided to impose sanctions against turkey. the european parliament must move in this direction.
i asked if there were any comments on the minutes. if they are not present, the minutes are approved. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
another announcement concerns the election of the european ombudsman. on 30 august 2019, a call for nominations for the election of the european ombudsman was published in the official journal. the deadline for submission of applications is 30 september 2019. on september 4th, you received an e-mail from me with more information. i would remind you that, under rule 231 (2), each nomination must be supported by at least 40 members representing at least two member states. each member may support only one candidate. if a member supports more than one candidate, none of these choices will be taken into account. once a nomination has been sent to the president, it is no longer possible to withdraw or add supporting signatures. i will assess the eligibility of the candidates after the deadline for submission of applications and forward their application to the committee on petitions, which will hold hearings of the candidates at the beginning of december. these hearings shall be open to all members. the election of the new ombudsman in the chamber is currently scheduled for the december 2019 plenary session.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 12 september 2019. the following amendments were tabled: monday no changes are proposed. tuesday following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda for tuesday. the title of the commission statement on the common position of the european union in view of the united nations climate action summit in new york should be changed to 'preparing for the climate action summit and the sustainable development goals summit in new york'. are there any objections? (parliament adopted the proposal) tuesday (continued) the greens/efa and gue/ngl groups have asked that the debate on the council and commission statements on the forest fires in the amazon be concluded with a resolution, which will be voted on thursday morning. i give the floor to mr lamberts, the president, to present the request on behalf of the green group.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in the amazon - because we are not talking about the past, we are talking about the present - the massive forest fires in the amazon region are a problem of global proportions. it is perfectly legitimate for this parliament not only to debate this, but to express itself. i am very much afraid that if we simply debate the situation without drawing any conclusions, i can already see a number of people in the amazon, the proponents of agribusiness, rubbing their hands together and saying: after all, europe is a tiger that does not bite. i therefore think it is important that we conclude the debate with a resolution which clearly states, in our view, the consequences that the european union should draw if brazil remains in the position it is in today, which is essentially to say that there is no problem and that, in the end, the europeans should just get involved in their own affairs. i think the amazon case concerns us all. it is not only a world heritage site, it is a vital part of the fight against climate change and we cannot leave the current situation without consequences. i therefore ask you to vote on thursday for a resolution from this parliament which clearly states what the consequences are that we intend to draw from the situation.
i’m sorry, my card doesn’t work, but i voted for. the card doesn’t work.
tuesday (continued) the id and gue/ngl groups asked that the debate and vote on the report by mr gualtieri on the appointment of the president of the european central bank (christine lagarde) be postponed to the october 1st part-session to allow mrs lagarde to be present. i give the floor to mr. bay to present the request of the id group.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote scheduled for tomorrow in the presence of mrs lagarde have been long in the planning. this is obviously an essential debate and mrs lagarde informed us very late that she was held back by obligations in washington and that she would not be present. some people now claim that his hearing before the economic affairs committee would be sufficient, but that is clearly not the case. too often our parliament is seen as a mere recording chamber for decisions which are taken elsewhere and in opacity. today we add humiliation. it is a mark of contempt for the only european institution which has the legitimacy of universal suffrage. governance of the ecb is of course fundamental. the policy of a strong euro, the policy of fighting inflation, is not without consequences, as we all know, for employment and european exports. this requires a real debate with the main stakeholder. our group therefore asks mrs lagarde to have the courtesy of coming to debate in the european parliament and, of course, asks that the vote and the debate scheduled for tomorrow be postponed.
mr president, i do not share mr bay's argument at all and as he mentions the procedure, i would like to point out that the procedure provides for a hearing of the candidate by the competent committee of the european parliament, namely the committee on economic and monetary affairs. that hearing took place, mrs lagarde was available to debate with us for long hours and so, in that respect, the rules were respected and the rules provide that the vote is then submitted to the plenary. nevertheless, i would draw the attention of the house to the fact that mrs lagarde has indicated that in principle she is willing to come to the plenary, which the rules do not require her to do. i think it is a good thing if this parliament wants to take this opportunity to raise its profile by having a debate with the candidate for president of the central bank. mrs lagarde, i think, had good reasons for being in washington: the general meeting of the international monetary fund is being prepared and so i do not take her absence here as a sign of disrespect. however, it is true that if the debate cannot be held in his presence tomorrow, there is little point in holding it. so for reasons quite opposite to those of mr bay, i think it might make sense - but only if it is consensual in this parliament - to hold the debate and vote in october, but if we want to present this as an act of defiance of mrs lagarde, then obviously we are not going to be able to accept those arguments. but i think the reason why we have to do this is because of the stature of this parliament. it is not sensible to debate the appointment of mrs lagarde without mrs lagarde, and if we want to debate the monetary policy of the union, that is another matter, that was not the request made at the conference of presidents and it is not the request made to us today either.
on the main board, opposing votes appear as abstentions, so there's an error, while on the display it's correct. that is why the members do not understand what has happened.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the impression in the chamber is that there was also electronic confusion in the green group's motion on whether we should be putting a resolution on the amazon issue. again, it was not plausible that the result shown electronically was in fact the same as the vote in the chamber. i would ask you to repeat this vote too, because we cannot fail here because of technical problems.
the results of the debate on the gualtieri report are: 175 in favour, 274 against, 10 abstentions. the agenda remains unchanged. as regards the request for the amazon debate, the results are: the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i give the floor to those who wish to support this request.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, it’s pretty straightforward. i think it is fine for us to have the debate, but clearly the draft resolution needs a bit more time. it is a very controversial and sensitive topic and we need to get it right. so let’s have the debate this time and work on the resolution for the next session.
mr president, this initiative came from the s&d group and i am very happy to see that there is a big majority in this house wanting to put this on the agenda. if it is necessary, in order to make sure we are united by setting up a special committee next week, we can live with the postponement. but i hope the outcome is not that we suddenly drop the case. so with that, we are in favour of having the debate tomorrow and the vote next week.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not following a good tradition of commemorating special anniversaries in this house in a form of debate and resolution, we propose, on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the molotov-ribbentrop pact - some call it the hitler-stalin pact - to hold a debate with resolution, as we did with broad consensus ten years ago. i think the consequences of this pact were fatal for the whole continent and are still felt in some cases. i think that is appropriate to the sad occasion that we are having a debate with a resolution on this point.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i would like to emphasise that we retain the title that is in the plenary agenda: ‘the importance of european remembrance for the future of europe’. secondly, we kindly ask you to consider that we present and vote on a resolution in the october i plenary session. it is a very sensitive and important topic, and we would like to have enough time to work properly on the resolution.
(parliament adopted the request) in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i propose that, following the presentation by the council, there should be a full debate. i say this because the greens/efa group had asked that the council's presentation of the general budget for the financial year 2020 be replaced by the council and commission's statements on the 2020 budget. i propose that there should be not only the presentation by the council but also a full debate, involving the plenary. (parliament agreed to the request)
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the situation of eu forests (2019/2807 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. madam president, the european commission, like this parliament, wishes to express its solidarity with all those affected by the recent torrential rains, floods and landslides which have affected various regions of spain, and to convey its condolences to the families of those who died in those regions and to add its thanks to all the authorities, security forces, civil protection and volunteers who have spared no effort in alleviating the effects of this catastrophe. i am taking this point this afternoon on behalf of my colleague commissioner hogan. i want to thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this issue and i welcome the interest of parliament in forests. forests, covering 40% of the european union's land surface, are a precious resource for our society, environment and economy and must play a very important role in addressing the sustainability challenges ahead. they are also affected by climate change and associated extreme events like storms or forest fires, which generate additional management challenges. in april this year, commissioner hogan organised a european union conference on forests where we had the opportunity to discuss in depth the current challenges of the european union's forests and the forest-based sector. this was a very fruitful event, which had the participation of all relevant stakeholders: policymakers, administrators, researchers, forest owner representatives, the forest industry, environmental ngos and representatives of our civil society. the conference confirmed the growing relevance and importance of forests and the forest-based sector in the context of the paris agreement, the global biodiversity targets and achieving the sdgs, while also underpinning the importance of forests for new and future-proof economic opportunities in rural areas. forests and forest-based products are crucial for achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, by constituting carbon sinks and by substituting fossil-based materials, as proposed in the political guidelines of the president-elect. you have asked the commission to present an assessment of the situation of european union forests. let me start by saying that forest policy is primarily the responsibility of the member states. this is well reflected in the european union forest strategy and the recent council conclusions of march 2019 on the review of the strategy that confirmed the subsidiarity-based approach on forestry policy at european union level. in the last few years, forests across the european union have increasingly been subject to several extreme events such as storms, droughts and pests often seen as consequences of climate change which are responsible for great losses in the forest economy and the associated ecosystems. the recent large-scale bark beetle outbreaks in many european countries add to the effects of forest fires, storms and windstorms and other pests. the commission chairs dedicated expert groups the standing forestry committee, the coordination group for biodiversity and nature, the forest fires expert group to address these issues and facilitate regular exchange of information and good practice between member states and the commission. for example, recent dedicated discussions have addressed the bark beetle situation in the standing forestry committee in december 2018 and guidance on fire prevention-oriented management of forested landscapes in the forest fires expert group in november 2018. forest protection and resilience will also be discussed in next week's coordination group for biodiversity and nature. an example of the magnitude of impacts is the large-scale mortality of norway spruce forests in central europe caused by bark beetle outbreaks, estimated at 80-82 million m3 for 2018. for germany, the losses of forests as a result of bark beetle outbreak and the drought during the last two years is estimated to have resulted in more than 100 000 hectares of forests being seriously damaged. concerning forest fires, according to the european forest fire information system (effis) more than 300 000 hectares of forest burnt down by early september 2019, in 1 880 fires. this figure is more than 60 000 hectares larger than the 2008-2018 average. in total, it is estimated that up to four million hectares of forested areas in europe are affected by forest damage. this damage is causing significant effects in european forest ecosystems, within and outside natura 2000, and in the forest-based industry. the current situation on the european roundwood market is beyond comparison: driven by damaged wood from droughts, heat, windstorms and floods, and bark beetle infestation, the market is flooded in terms of volume, and market prices are dropping. the situation is far from optimal from the point of view of climate change mitigation through harvested wood products. in order to support forests and the forest sector's needs, the european union forest strategy achieved the alignment of the european union funding instruments in support of a commonly agreed set of objectives and priorities, building on the key principles of sustainable forest management, multifunctionality and resource efficiency. the common agricultural policy (cap) is the main source of financial support for european union forests. the planned public expenditure for 2014-2020 is about eur eight billion, spread across 90% of the rural development programmes. other eu funds, such as the cohesion policy, the civil protection mechanism, the life financial instrument, or the research framework programme, consistently support the european union objectives for forests. support for the prevention of damage to forests caused by fires, natural disasters and extreme events, and for the restoration of production potential, is also available to member states through the european union's rural development policy. for the period 2014-2020, fire and natural disaster prevention and restoration account for over 20% of the planned cap expenditure on forests, including eur 1.7 billion for prevention, and eur 700 million for restoration. additionally, an amount of eur 1.5 billion is programmed for ensuring the long-term resilience of forests. the european union civil protection mechanism has also been providing ample technical support to disaster prevention and preparedness, and means to help fight disasters such as forest fires. this mechanism has recently been strengthened, for example by establishing a european reserve of capacities that includes firefighting planes and helicopters. moreover, we are also committing substantial support for research and innovation in the forest-based sector under horizon 2020, including for the protection of forests and new practices and approaches to enhance forest resilience. we expect that the budget will be substantially increased under horizon europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the forest is an important climate protector in europe. this is particularly true where the forest is also managed and where the wood can replace other products such as steel and cement. it is also important for a large sector of the economy, for recreation and for biodiversity. the forest is in a poor state in many countries in europe, for example in the czech republic, slovakia, france, germany and southern scandinavia. the cause is apparently the extreme drought of the past two years and the resulting spread of pests such as the bark beetle. so , in a nutshell , a major climate protector is in danger, probably from climate change. that is why we must help - each one at his own level - first and foremost, of course, on the ground in the member states, but also where we have competence as the european union. we need to look at financial support. this is the case, for example, with the second pillar of the agricultural policy. but it is not appropriate to cut the second pillar drastically. we in parliament will certainly not accept that. but it is also about the interpretation of rules in competition law and other areas. we have a real catastrophe here and everyone must be aware of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not going to go into detail. the only thing on the agenda is the debate. the epp also wanted a resolution. i hope that in the coming days we can talk about not just debating here but preparing concrete actions, for example a resolution in the next plenary. we must send a message that we care about the forest and we support all those who care about the forest.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we are not going to hide from ourselves that the european union has its share of responsibility for global deforestation. we europeans are responsible because we import a lot of wood from all over the world. we are also responsible because we continue to import or use a very large number of products containing palm oil. some countries, including france, even continue to promote it as a fuel, even though the cultivation of palm oil is an environmental disaster and its use is three times more harmful to the climate than fossil diesel. we are responsible, but we can act, we must act. it is our duty to enhance europe's forestry resources with a real strategy for protecting and restoring forests. we also need to set clear rules for the sustainable management of these forests. finally, a personal note. we would have much more credibility if we included binding clauses such as respect for the environment in the international free trade agreements that europe signs - as with mercosur, for example.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner cañete, the european forest is doing well and not so well. the reason why this is so is perhaps because there is no such thing as a european forest, we only have european forests in the plural and some of them are doing quite well and some of them are doing worse. to understand what is really at issue, we should perhaps look at what has happened in recent years in both canada and russia. both countries have suffered massive forest fires. in fact, canada's forest resources are already ecologically disadvantaged precisely because of the enormous carbon dioxide released by the fires. the reason is simple: when nature sets a forest fire, there is no apparatus to put it out. there are no forest roads, no way to shut down, and that's why the problem is permanent. in russia we have a very similar situation: in july four million hectares of forest burned there and no one was able to put it out. the way we manage forests is by means of forest roads. it requires, as donald trump said, a little unfortunately, that we do a little digging. it's not a small amount of grinding, it's a lot of hard work. but without forestry, we're not going to solve this problem. nor the so-called 'bookworm' bark beetle problem, which is currently spreading quite badly in southern europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you for this debate on european forests because we talk quite often about forests outside europe, but i think it’s very important to talk about the state of our forests within the eu as well, especially because forests are very crucial for climate. they are a natural carbon sink and they are key for biodiversity – and on both matters europe is not performing well. first of all on climate: 40% of our current renewables come from biomass and in the commission’s own impact assessment for the lulucf directive, it clearly states that we expect a decline in our sink in the future until 2030, and a decline in the sink is the same effect as higher emissions. so we have to look and do better there also, in forestry as a sink. but also on biodiversity: the environmental assessment agency clearly states that the state of our forests is only at 25% of the favourable status in natura 2000, in protected areas. so we expect action from the commission in its climate law to improve the natural carbon sinks and a binding biodiversity strategy for 2030 in order to improve our forests for climate and biodiversity.
blue-card question. – the question i had was whether there was a slight contradiction here between what we are advocating as a house, in protecting the european forests, and the european union’s policy of biodiesel and biomass in its energy complex, where we’re advocating a green policy which causes the destruction of indonesian rainforests – natural tropical rainforests – and also the loss of precious lives, of orang-utans, for example, and at the same time ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, we sometimes think in europe that plant breeding is just a business of big multinational corporations. that is not the case at all in europe. many small players, research institutes and even larger ones are doing plant breeding in europe, and it is precisely the smaller players who need free access to genetic material, that is to say, they must be able to use all the genetic material available in europe and in the world to use it for breeding. that is why it is so important that we put a stop to this attempt to patent these varieties. i am glad that we are in agreement here in this house, across the political groups. i think we should do everything we can to make sure that life and plants are not patentable, at least if they are grown in a traditional way. we have our own rules on genetically modified organisms, which are not open to debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all members for their remarks because i am happy that we are on the same, very unanimous, position. it was very clear from the very beginning in the commission and the political message that i want to send: that plants obtained by natural biological processes should not be patentable. i can only assure you that we will try and engage in a discussion with the european patent office (epo). we will try to take a very active role to restore, firstly, legal certainty, because we know how important it is for different stakeholders in the sector; then, to preserve, of course, the interests of the european plant breeding sector, farmers, the general public; but to restore common sense. so, thank you very much for this discussion because it gives us yet more strength in our future endeavours.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me make this initial presentation of the situation in hong kong on behalf of the high representative, federica mogherini. over the past month, the people of hong kong have exercised the fundamental right to demonstrate peacefully for their autonomy and the rights of freedom of expression and assembly. throughout the summer, we invited all sides to reject all kinds of violence and to de-escalate the situation. in this sense, the announced withdrawal of the extradition bill is a step in the right direction. the people of hong kong have marched in unprecedented numbers and these massive demonstrations have shown their determination. it is reported that as many as 1.7 million people took to the streets on 18 august this year. in recent weeks, as the situation has escalated, there have been scenes of major violence by triads, apparent attacks on bystanders, reports of excessive use of force by the security forces, petrol bombs and wanton vandalism. all such violence is unacceptable and it cannot be condoned. nevertheless, the protests have been predominantly peaceful and they continue to be widely supported by the population of hong kong. the eu has consistently supported the ‘one country, two systems’ principle. this principle, which is guaranteed in the basic law, is also an international commitment from china under the sino-british joint declaration of 1984, as ratified by the chinese national people’s congress. it gives hong kong a high degree of autonomy and ensures respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of hong kong’s people. this principle is also crucial for business confidence in hong kong, a city which remains an important financial centre and a strategic port and transport hub. the ‘one country, two systems’ principle is essential for hong kong to continue fully to play its strategic economic role. the european union supports the preservation of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of hong kong and its high degree of autonomy. this is essential for the prosperity not only of hong kong but also of mainland china. respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and the independence of the judiciary are also vital for the development of hong kong, and for the daily lives of its people, and should be upheld in line with the basic law and china’s international commitments. on 18 july, the european parliament discussed the situation in an emergency debate and you adopted the resolution. meanwhile, the european external action service published three statements, and on 17 august the high representative made the formal declaration, approved by all member states, rejecting violence and calling for inclusive dialogue involving all key stakeholders. the high representative discussed the situation with several international partners over the summer and released a joint statement with the foreign minister of canada. hong kong was part of the eu foreign ministers’ informal discussion in helsinki at the end of august. since then, chief executive carrie lam has announced, on 4 september, that the extradition bill, which would have allowed extradition from hong kong to mainland china, will be formally withdrawn. this welcome move from the authorities potentially opens up space to work towards a peaceful and enduring solution. however, the situation remains tense. we witness with concern the rising violence in hong kong. we maintain our expectation that all sides should refrain from violence and seek solutions through genuine and constructive dialogue. for this to happen, it seems that, first, bold steps may be needed to restore trust. secondly, we see that business confidence and investment sentiment are also being affected. hong kong is a vital bridge between the eu’s economy and china’s. we have a common interest to see the situation evolve positively, including through broad-based dialogue with all key stakeholders to find a lasting and peaceful solution.
for the ppe group. madam president, thank you for the floor and also for including this item, because as the commissioner said, the situation in hong kong is not easy and the fighting is still going on. when i saw the reporting of the hong kong demonstrations, the thousands of people in the streets marching to preserve freedom, these images reminded me of events 30 years ago in eastern and central europe. except that the dictatorship was being removed at the time, and now we see from china that there is an attempt to install some elements of dictatorship. as a christian, i also had to note the significant role of the christian faith in motivating the catholic protesters. in a clash with police, protesters urged her to refrain from violence and to sing "hallelujah" to our lord. these people deserve our support. people who aren't afraid to stand up and fight for their human and political rights. they've been demonstrating for months and have won the controversial law's withdrawal. opposition to the proposed law would not have been so violent had it not been for the experience in 2015 when the chinese secret police abducted five editors of a hong kong bookstore who had been involved in publishing books about the communist regime's behind-the-scenes intrigues to the mainland. so the law was withdrawn, but the outrage persists, and it's good that the european union, the european parliament and this discussion sends a clear signal that china must count on human rights as a condition for any further cooperation, both economic and otherwise.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the protest in hong kong continues, despite the withdrawal by the hong kong authorities of the bill authorising extradition. but, it should be noted, this project is only one of the five demands of the activists. these millions of people who have been demonstrating in the streets for three months now count on our support, the european support. fundamental freedoms, such as the right to demonstrate and the independence of the judiciary, are and must remain guarantees for defending a state, two systems. the violence perpetrated by the chinese authorities against protesters in hong kong is completely disproportionate. the excessive use of force is a violation of international standards and fundamental rights. but we can't just stand by and watch. the union will always support those who defend human rights and the rule of law by peaceful means. however, it appears that some eu member states have sold technological equipment used in the repression of demonstrators, in particular surveillance equipment and tear gas. in our 2019 resolution, we called on the union to put in place an export control mechanism to china to prevent european companies and their technologies from being complicit in human rights violations. two months later, where are we? the last hearings we held in the european parliament showed us chilling testimonies today of activists who no longer fear for their freedom but fear for their lives. what is the real message that we can give them?
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. that's how long the mass protests have been going on in hong kong. the millions of peaceful demonstrators who are taking to the streets are calling for more democracy, more respect for political rights, as my colleagues have already announced today. and what does it show? what do they get in return? rubber bullets, suppression, and tear gas. in short: excessive police violence. and that's in addition to intimidation, repression, censorship and arrests. we cannot remain indifferent, and here several people have already said: one country, two systems. it's a good thing that law was repealed. but the protesters are demanding more. we must ensure that hong kong does not slide down an undemocratic path. we must make it clear to beijing that internal affairs are no longer internal when universal human rights are violated. the commission has already made a number of proposals. how will you restart the dialogue with china? how are you going to make it clear to them that we want protests to continue peacefully? how are you going to ask them to finally launch an independent investigation into this excessive police brutality? demonstrators must be able to protest peacefully and no longer fear for their lives.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, two weeks ago i visited hong kong and i talked to actors from different walks of life. i came back even more convinced than before that this parliament did the right thing when, before the summer, we declared that we stand with the people of hong kong. the movement for democracy and freedom in hong kong is still going on, and it still deserves our continuing solidarity. ‘one country, two systems’ must not be undermined by intervention from beijing or by imposing emergency regulations. it is not enough to withdraw the rendition bill. the people want more change. primarily, they want an independent inquiry into the violence – in particular, police violence – and they want universal suffrage. universal suffrage was promised to them 22 years ago in the basic law. the promise has not yet been kept. beijing must keep this promise. we, as greens, support the fight for universal suffrage in hong kong. democracy must win!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we stand by the people of hong kong. this has been the continued attitude of the european parliament since the protests started and since the violations against book-keepers. the people of hong kong won their initial battle: the extradition law was withdrawn. yet all parties should obey the declaration of 1984 and, in particular, beijing should refrain from attempts to launch provocations there. we continue to stand by the people of hong kong.
madam president, we either believe in democracy and freedom, or we don’t. if we don’t, this debate is pointless. if we do, then it is a principle that goes beyond national boundaries. in fact it goes beyond european boundaries, it is universal. violence by the state against protesters is completely unacceptable. violence by protesters should not get a free pass either. but the issue on its merits is so simple: who should decide who governs hong kong? forget the qing dynasty and the 99-year lease, forget the 19th century politics still impacting the 21st – the answer must be that the people of hong kong should have the same right to self-determination as every human being deserves.
madam president, in its old objectionable imperial days my country thought of itself as the mother of the free, but whose freedom did that empire guarantee, and where has it gone now? yesterday, protesters holding union jacks demonstrated at the british consulate in hong kong, and rightly so, for britain surely retains a duty to defend their freedoms accorded in the joint declaration of 1984. the recent response from the uk ambassador for human rights seems too sanguine, for the withdrawal of the infamous extradition bill can’t in itself resolve the concerns. if britain itself will not challenge china’s oppressive response, let us in this european union step up. let us be the ones defending human rights without borders and securing universal suffrage for hong kong. let us become truly the mother of the free, and not by building an empire, but by challenging imperial interference.
madam president, in september 2013, our parliament adopted almost unanimously a report i authored on endangered languages in the european union. by voting on this report, parliament was addressing the commission, which has done nothing since, or so little, that multilingualism is no longer mentioned in any of the mission letters of future european commissioners. parliament also called on the member states to promote the development of these languages. however, in france, six years later, the european charter for regional or minority languages has still not been ratified. worse, the minister of education in office since the election of mr macron, mr jean-michel blanquer, has embarked on an openly linguistic policy towards our languages. the european union has intervened to promote respect for human rights in the face of the failings of certain member states. respect for the european heritage of our languages and cultures is demanded by our parliament and by the european treaties. i therefore ask that the french state be officially reminded of the parliament's position adopted by more than 90% of meps in september 2013, and i expect the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that this european heritage is no longer threatened with disappearance.
madam president, following the vote of 17.4 million britons to leave the european union, eu leaders stated that they would work to ensure brexit was not a success. could that be because if brexit was a success then other eu members would follow suit? if we asked the peoples of europe whether they want a free trade agreement or a political superstate, there would be a massive majority for free trade. but why should the people be given a voice? democracy is only respected when it gives the right answer. i come from a background where my father went underground for four years in the second world war and was the voice of liberation on state radio when monty liberated our country. i come from a background where my parents started the danish eurosceptic movement in the 1960s and i come from a background where i campaigned to halt the oppressive maastricht treaty, so i bow to no one in my belief in democracy, free speech and self-government. i urge this chamber to live up to its initial purpose of being the democratic light-tower of the eu, by not only respecting the british people but respecting those beyond the privileged, unrepresentative, echo chamber of the european parliament.
madam president, after more than 30 years japan has recently resumed its outrageous practice of commercial whaling, which is in breach of international law and undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. this parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to engage with japan with a view to abolishing this practice, and it is deeply regrettable that the eu-japan free trade agreement does not contain any specific provisions on whaling. however, we cannot stand back and allow the slaughter of whales for profit to continue. for this reason, my party colleagues and i have written a letter to the commissioner for trade questioning whether japan’s actions comply with the sustainable development chapter of the trade deal. if not, we call on her to initiate enforcement procedures immediately. we must stop celebrating trade deals when they clearly betray even the best of our environmental practices.
mr president, on friday, thousands of young people will march across scotland, just as millions of others will do across the world, to demand that we, their elected politicians, implement ambitious climate action now. they are looking to us to stand up and deliver policies that meet the needs of our planet. as a member of the delegation to the un climate summit, we must take to it the strong message that we, across the eu, will meet the challenge laid before us and take bolder actions that will get us on track to meet the paris agreement and achieve the 1.5 degrees goal. that is what is expected of us and that is what we must deliver. my country, scotland, has already declared a climate emergency. we are taking bold and meaningful action to end our contribution to climate change and we will end that within a generation. we need all countries across the eu and beyond to step up to the plate. the eu has a moral duty to lead that process and to stimulate the global ambition that we urgently need, and you’ll have scotland’s support in doing so. (applause)
mr president, a race we can win, a race we must win, but not for us, for our children. i’ve been so inspired by young people from greta thunberg to the youth everywhere. we are relying on our kids to drop out of lessons, to take to the streets, to sail across the atlantic just to make us politicians act, and their impact has been phenomenal. as a result, this parliament now has an environmental mandate that we all must act on. the 2015 climate plans still put the world on course to warm by at least 3 degrees by the turn of the century. the eu must commit to net zero by 2030. this means investing in a truly green new deal, which could combat poverty, inequalities and the climate crisis, so i will be taking part in friday’s global climate strike – to demand that the health of our earth is taken seriously for my son rafi, for the future of us all.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the campaign we have just launched sent a clear message to this parliament to prioritise a sustainable transition more quickly, and also to take a leading role globally on climate. i am carrying with me the demands of young people that we in this parliament act much more forcefully than we have historically done. the incoming commission with ursula von der leyen has clearly stated that the climate will be a top priority, as will the world's biodiversity. that's commendable. but in new york, we'll have our chance to prove we mean business. this is where we can show that we are also taking global leadership on climate and the 2030 agenda. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. for us social democrats, the work towards a sustainable future (ecologically, socially and economically) is the driving force and the backbone of europe as a whole. we must live up to the paris agreement and we must show that this is the great and most important priority for the eu. but the same thing must be done globally. it is important that we now bring our member states together and show concrete action in new york, but that we also show that this means taking both the paris agreement and agenda 2030 seriously and making sure that there is concrete action. we have a chance now in new york. let us not neglect it. europe is playing a key role in climate change. use that key. make sure we become the leading continent and show the international community that in europe we have understood the seriousness and we will take political responsibility.
mr president, climate action, like sustainable development before it, has jumped to the center of the political discourse. but beyond the platitudes, beyond some of the propaganda, superficiality and even opportunism with which these issues are so often treated, what is left? and what remains, unfortunately, is the insistence on the same policies that have compromised the possibility of development based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature. some of those who pledge commitment to climate action, some of those who affirm solemn commitments to sustainable development, are the same ones who have opened the door to policies that sow environmental, economic and social destruction, such as those based on free trade, trade and agricultural policies that promote the offshoring of production, that destroy the weakest productive systems and that increase the flows of material and energy associated with meeting the most basic needs. commissioner, has anyone in the commission done the math on how much the agreement just concluded with mercosur will cost in terms of greenhouse gas emissions? let's start here, with more sustainable models of production and consumption, and stop trying to paint a system that is inherently unsustainable green. the fundamental issue is political and social, not so much technological. capitalism is not green.
the european union is indeed taking the lead in tackling climate change, mr president. and that is our achievement, commissioner cañete, in the years you have led this effort. the european union is indeed leading in legislation, but it is also leading in the implementation of the objectives in the member states. but obviously what's happening isn't enough. the new green deal to be presented by vice-president timmermans must take account of the competitiveness problems of european industry and the need to rapidly change the source of electricity it uses, with a focus on renewable energy sources. the 'new green deal' must also be based on a new global alliance to tackle climate change. a global alliance of interests involving states, involving regions and aiming at the new sustainable development, with a focus on financing research and new technologies. and that money can come from our own multiannual financial framework, from state budgets, from financial instruments, but also from the private sector. energy-efficient buildings for all, tackling energy poverty, circularity in production and, above all, a change in the consumption model can be the basis and the pillars of the new green development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the position of europe, of the european union, has been very clear on this subject. sure, we have set goals, we have set goals for 2030, for 2050. i think that the next commission, which will be validated very soon, must have a pragmatic approach, find appropriate measures, so as not to miss the 2050 target. but i think this summit is important because, unfortunately, it's not just europe that's polluting, and if we've taken important steps, we know that the globe is affected by pollution from china, from the united states... and i think that at this summit the representatives of the european institutions have to highlight this, and this summit has to end with concrete global action, and of course, my view is that the united nations has to be more involved in this. and i also think, commissioner, that it is good that the new multiannual financial framework - let us not forget the budgets - reflects the fact that we need investment, we need support for smes to adapt to the new measures, and without investment, without innovation, without research, we will not be able to achieve the targets.
mr president, as we’ve heard, this friday, around the world young people will spill on to the streets to demand that we all step up action to tackle the climate emergency. i’ve personally found their leadership on this issue both humbling and really inspiring. in response to their call, there are three things that we can all do. we must stand in solidarity with the climate strikers, first of all. we must each reflect on our own behaviour and live more lightly on the planet. but, most importantly, as representatives, we must work for systemic change. we in europe have built our prosperity on the use of fossil fuels and on resource exploitation, a model that we have exported worldwide. the result has been a world facing a climate crisis and unacceptable inequality. we therefore have a special responsibility to show leadership in achieving zero carbon and in tackling global inequality. there’s still insufficient ambition both in this house and in our national parliaments to tackle the climate crisis. warm words about a green new deal need to be translated into policies: no trade policy that encourages deforestation and no investment in fossil fuels; instead, public transport, zero carbon buildings, green agriculture. we in europe need to put our money where our mouth is and take this opportunity of zero carbon transition to build the societies and economies that our children deserve.
mr president, we live in stable, resilient, liberal democracies. ten years ago, i would probably have signed a statement like this for all members of the european union and i would have believed that this is something that, in the course of my lifetime, was not going to change. today, i would honestly be more cautious about this statement. yes, we still live in stable, resilient democracies, but honestly these democracies are under attack. disinformation is being spread, scapegoating, for example, minorities and marginalised groups. there are smear campaigns against, for example, sexual and reproductive rights or the istanbul convention, partly funded through very blurry channels with money from abroad, not only russia, but also, for example, the united states. these tactics are already showing their consequences. they are destabilising our democratic decision-making processes. we have to stand up for our rights and our democracies through empowering civil society, but also through taking steps to defend our discussion space without at the same time undermining the very basis of our democracies, which is freedom of speech. (applause)
mr president, with due respect to all measures taken within the portfolios of commissioner jourová and commissioner king, i would like to stress that we discuss the external aspect of eu relations, namely foreign interference into our democratic processes. yes, we have to strengthen resilience and further build democracies, but we have to know the policies of external actors. during the eighth legislature we presented reports on this, naming predominantly the russian federation, but also actors like china, iran and north korea. their actions, a low intensive information war, are many times tailored-made – cut and made – vis-à-vis each member state. so building our cooperation is very important. yet in order to act successfully, we have to know narrative policies, i would like to praise east stratcom, located within the european external action service (eeas).
mr president, online payment systems, social media and informal campaigns do indeed open doors to people who want to abuse democracy across the political spectrum, but something else is also afoot: an appetite to spread conspiracy for political ends and a desire to delegitimise election results because the loser doesn’t consent. i have seen both leave campaigns for brexit face numerous court cases and accusations long since debunked. a young campaigner in the uk was threatened with prison for two years before charges were dropped. my own party, at the whim of an embittered ex-prime minister claiming we received foreign money, had our offices raided, only for that investigation to be terminated because no evidence was found. the list goes on. it’s patently clear to me that the biggest threat to democracy is opportunism and the gender-driven conspiracy by politicians themselves to discredit campaigns that they don’t favour. it’s irresponsible, it’s feckless and it creates mistrust between the voter and the result, laying fertile ground for extremism. like the boy who cried wolf before calling foul, check your facts or you become the problem, not the solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – would ms phillips please comment on the secret campaign work she did for the disgraced data-mining and campaigns consultancy cambridge analytica during the kenyan presidential election in 2017, for which i was an election observer for this parliament, and also comment on the subsequent lies she told about her involvement in that? cambridge analytica was hired by president kenyatta’s governing jubilee party prior to the campaign which reignited tribal divisions in the country, resulting in dozens of politically motivated killings and the mysterious torture and murder of chris msando, the head of iebc, the independent electoral and boundaries commission... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card answer. – my colleague is embodying exactly what i have just said. i worked for a british consultancy as a freelance contractor, which she well knows later folded into the american company cambridge analytica. it is funny; she could contact me in person to ask about this rather than taking her information from conspiracy theories on twitter and fbpe hashtag people who want to stir up misinformation. i am proud of the work i did for a progressive african president. that work is on record with the european parliament. and, can i just say, if that is not for political ends, why didn’t she knock on my office door?
mr president, freedom, fairness and transparency: these are the foundations on which democracy is built. but in recent years these principles have come under attack. big money and the digital age have particularly fuelled the far right, unleashing propaganda campaigns that have no place in a modern, inclusive and progressive society. electoral interference and disinformation have poisoned our political discussions. groups have spread messages of hatred with the aim of dividing our communities and eroding trust in our political systems. these untruths have plunged my country into a constitutional crisis, putting the rights and well-being of millions of people in the uk and beyond on the line. the chair of the house of commons digital culture, media and sport committee has said that – i quote – ‘our democracy is at risk and our electoral regulations are hopelessly out of date for the internet age’, and this from the so-called mother of all parliaments. we can’t sit in this elected chamber and turn a blind eye as the very fundamental values of this institution and all our parliaments back home come under siege from characters who want to disrupt our democracies for their own political or financial gain. we need more robust, legally binding protections so that citizens are empowered to decide their own fates, not external powers or those with the deepest pockets. (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from belinda de lucy)
madam president, the skies over são paulo have turned black from the smoke of the amazon rainforest burning. these rainforests are the lungs of our world, which we all need for an atmosphere to breathe. the indigenous people who live there want only the basic human right to be left alone, and these fires are destroying their homes. many people in south east england have contacted me about this. the uk parliament has been shut down, but this parliament still gives us a voice. brazil’s economy is growing – gdp per person has grown by almost a quarter in ten years – and indeed, whether the mercosur agreement can survive this inferno will be in question. mr bolsonaro, if you burn this rainforest, you will burn brazil’s chance for good relations with europe. it is not necessary to burn the forest to make wealth; it is necessary to put the fires out to save our planet. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – i’m afraid i do not know of the letter of which my colleague speaks. i think this is a matter that is too complicated to be reduced to a yes-or-no question or a single letter; it needs to be looked at in detail. but i’m certainly an advocate that our trade agreements in europe should be used to promote human rights, to promote liberal values, and to promote fairness and indeed protection of the environment.
mr president, occasionally, an issue comes to public attention because it crystallises a big and complex issue in a way that hits home for all of us that we can all understand, and the fires in the amazon are one such example. yes, they’re not the only fires, yes, we need to plant more trees here in europe, but concentrating on the fires in the amazon brings home some really important issues for us all. people in europe are passionate about the fate of the amazon because we care about the climate crisis. we care about biodiversity and about the lives of indigenous people under threat. none of us is an island; we’re interconnected. our choices here in europe –consumption, trade policy – have an influence elsewhere in the world. like many others, i’m fearful of the effects of the eu—mercosur trade deal. i worry that narrow economic interests will trump concern for human rights and environmental protection. i’m not at all reassured by claims that the eu will somehow have more leverage than before over human rights and environmental protection after we sign the mercosur trade deal. you only have to look at our record on this. it’s taken eight years to begin enforcement on the eu-korea free trade agreement. as it stands, the mercosur deal is all carrot ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i declare a personal interest in connection with colombia, given that my third son has got a colombian godfather, as well as having two friends who are sporting heroes: robert farah and juan sebastian cabal, who have both won a back-to-back in the men’s doubles in tennis. another great achievement delivered three years ago was president santos, who signed the peace accord with the left wing terrorist militia group known as farc (fuerzas armadas revolucionarias de colombia). after decades of violence, it took real courage and leadership to bring farc to the political process and give them ten elected seats in congress. we now see a peace agreement under threat as elements of the farc renege on the accord and call for a new armed struggle. aided by the thug maduro in neighbouring venezuela and funded by narco—trafficking, there is a real danger that colombia could lurch back into the dark days of the past, so it is now imperative that president duque remains resolute and does not buckle to the threats of renewed violence from farc. of one thing i am certain, though: the eu has no right, moral authority or treaty obligation to interfere in the affairs of colombia. it is an independent sovereign state, and eu foreign policy mission creep is neither necessary nor desirable.
mr president, i would like to start by saying that i found the high representative's visit to bogotá last week very useful. i believe that the european union must continue to show its solidarity clearly in these difficult times for colombia. difficult because of the neighborhood with venezuela, which has experienced an exodus of more than four million people fleeing the maduro regime. colombia hosts the largest number of displaced people - we have already said - almost one and a half million. this migratory pressure is to be reinforced by the recent introduction of visas by chile, peru and ecuador. i therefore welcome the mobilisation of new european union aid, but it is only 30 million euros for the identification of immigrants and their socioeconomic integration. i hope that this amount will increase. more international humanitarian aid is needed. at the moment, the united states is providing more humanitarian aid to colombia than the entire european union. on the other hand, it has also been said, it is very worrying that a small group of guerrillas, led by iván márquez, recently announced their intention to take up arms again. this initiative is dangerous and totally wrong, especially when the peace process is moving forward, is making significant progress and already has almost twelve thousand people in the active reintegration phase. there is the new support of the security council just yesterday, or the statements of the farc leader timochenko himself, who said yesterday in a spanish newspaper that the peace process is irreversible. the european union and the rest of the community - and i will finish, mr president - must continue to support colombia in the face of its many and serious challenges. a friendly country with which we have recently strengthened our ties.
mr president, the european union and colombia have engaged in a political dialogue in favour of human rights and the peace agreement. despite some improvements, which we have highlighted today, the situation of human rights defenders in colombia is alarming today. since the signing of the peace agreement, 462 community leaders and 164 environmental defenders have been killed by paramilitaries. of the murders that have been committed, civil society reports that only 8% of them have been prosecuted in colombia. in 2016, a trust fund was set up with the european union. the first question is: among the projects financed by this fund, can the commission tell us which ones are specifically concerned with the protection of human rights defenders? the second question concerns the trade agreement with colombia, which provided for a human rights evaluation mechanism: where are we today in relation to this evaluation?
mr president, the 2016 deal brought fragile peace to colombia, a peace that is more and more under threat. iván márquez’s video was the most recent blow. while most leaders of the farc condemned this return to war, we cannot underestimate the potential risks. venezuela is another thorn to stability in colombia. not only is the crisis in venezuela exerting pressure, with more than 1.4 million migrants fleeing over the border, but it also constitutes a safe haven for guerrillas to operate. the eu has been committed for decades now to supporting a peaceful solution in colombia. the colombian government needs our support now more than ever to continue implementing the peace agreement and we need to continue to actively find a solution to the crisis in venezuela, which is clearly having spill-over effects in the region.
mr president, three years ago we celebrated the peace agreement in colombia. today we regret that the violence continues. in these three years, more than 500 human rights defenders, 175 ex-combatants and their relatives, and several political leaders have been killed. we regret that some farc members, three years later, are taking up arms again, but we also denounce the lack of will on the part of the colombian government to implement the peace agreements. not only have the paramilitary groups not been dismantled, but the allegations of their links with the government and the army have even increased. while agribusiness entrepreneurs are favoured, land reform remains paralysed. the european union is giving millions to support the implementation of agreements which are not being implemented. what has been done, for example, to dismantle paramilitary groups? our commitment to peace requires an end to political violence, the implementation of the agreements and the resumption of negotiations with the eln. without guarantees, there will never be peace.
mr president, colombia has been in a state of continual conflict since before the 19th century, involving many parties with vested interest. therefore, the revised peace deal brokered in 2016 between the colombian state and farc is extremely welcome. farc was made to cease parliament military activity and became a mainstream party. but the legitimisation of one group has left a power vacuum; other militant groups and factions have emerged keen to exploit the gap in the market, particularly in cocaine. it is estimated by the united nations office on drugs and crime that there has been a year-on-year rise of 31% in cocaine production, estimated to be worth usd 2.7 billion. this provides almost unlimited capital for these groups, further entrenching their positions, provoking further conflict and crime in the region. so the revised peace deal has not brought peace. it has merely removed one group and replaced it with others. as a medical doctor, i know the cocaine industry has a very real impact on people’s lives, not just in colombia or south america but here in europe too. so we must find permanent solutions and revisit drug policy to tackle this exponential growth.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me to say that this exchange of views was very useful and very timely. i would like to take this opportunity to thank honourable members for their interventions, comments and suggestions. out of the many valuable remarks, i would like to respond to mep arena’s question: what is the eu doing to protect human rights defenders and indigenous and social leaders? the eu, in coordination with member states, supports actions to help ensure that human rights defenders are protected and respected and can operate in a safe and enabling environment. assistance is provided to defenders at risk through protection programmes such as protectdefenders.eu on 11 june 2019, the eu delegation together with several member states launched the campaign ‘defendamos la vida’ to protect and give visibility to human rights defenders and social leaders. on 10 july, the eu launched the project strengthening the special investigation unit of the office of the attorney general of the nation, eur two million. the special investigation unit aims to implement a secure judicial investigation system able to prevent, react, control, prosecute and seek criminal punishment for grave violations against human rights defenders and members of social and political movements perpetrated by criminal organisations. and in addition, the eu will continue to provide financial support to organisations working with human rights defenders in colombia. from this debate i conclude that the only path towards lasting peace in this difficult context is to continue implementation of the peace agreement with full support of the eu and international stakeholders. this is our message to the government and the people of colombia. but i would like to remind us that while the peace process remains at the heart of our engagement with colombia, our relationship has deepened and broadened in recent years with the implementation of the free trade agreement, cooperation on security and defence, and on the environment, to mention just a few key areas. the current challenges are very serious and we will continue supporting colombia in addressing them, but the overall relationship and perspectives for the future are very positive. allow me to express my appreciation for your attention and support in maintaining this important file at the top of our agenda.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the tensions in the region have increased following the announcement by the indian government on 5 august of the revocation of article 370 that grants partial autonomy to the state of jammu and kashmir. this step has been accompanied by restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. the indian government has deployed a significant number of additional military and paramilitary troops in kashmir and along the line of control. the action was presented by the indian government as a means to prevent violent protests. pakistan has also deployed additional troops on its side of the line of control. on both sides, the issue of kashmir resonates strongly with internal political dynamics. while some of the restrictions are reported to have been lifted, the situation has not returned to normalcy. there have been arrests of political leaders, activists and human rights defenders. the european union has been following the situation closely since the early days of this escalation of tensions. in early august, high representative mogherini spoke on the phone with both her pakistani and indian counterparts. in both conversations, the high representative underlined the importance of avoiding a further escalation and stressed that dialogue between india and pakistan through diplomatic channels is crucial. our position on kashmir remains unchanged. we encourage india and pakistan to seek a peaceful and political solution, respectful of the interests of the kashmiri population on both sides of the line of control. this remains the only way to solve a long-lasting dispute that for too long has caused instability and insecurity in the region. we remain concerned about the situation on the ground with its restrictions on fundamental freedoms. it is crucial that freedom of movement and means of communication are fully restored, as well as access to all essential services. the high representative conveyed these concerns to the indian minister for external affairs, mr jaishankar, during their meeting in brussels on 13 august. the minister debriefed the high representative on the state of play and on the security situation. ms mogherini reiterated the call to avoid an escalation of tensions and stressed the importance of steps to restore the rights and freedoms of the population in kashmir. the eu has also raised the situation in jammu and kashmir at the human rights council meeting in geneva in an item 2 statement on 10 september. in the statement, we encourage the lifting of the remaining restrictions temporarily imposed and to maintain the rights and fundamental freedoms of the affected population. we continue to urge both parties to engage in direct dialogue with a view to a peaceful solution in full respect of their international human rights obligations. in a moment of rising tensions in different regions around the world, no one can afford another escalation in kashmir. regional cooperation in south asia is now more essential than ever and we will continue to encourage india and pakistan to resume dialogue and find a peaceful solution to their disputes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. article 370 provided for greater autonomy for indian kashmir by granting it a wide margin of manoeuvre and limiting the intervention of indian legislation in the management of jammu and kashmir. defence, foreign affairs and communication were the only matters that fell under the central government in new delhi, the rest being administered by a local legislative assembly. article 370 also gave the federal state a separate constitution. since 5 august, when india revoked kashmir's autonomy status, more than 3 000 people have been arbitrarily arrested, including politicians, activists and academics. all means of communication, telephone, internet, have been suspended. emergency services, hospitals are facing a shortage of equipment and staff. foreign journalists and ngos are no longer allowed on the territory and the situation is worsening with the curfew blocking the movement of locals, especially the sick and doctors. tens of thousands of troops have been sent to reinforce the situation in the region, which is one of the most militarized in the world with over a million troops on the ground. already the un reports published in 2018 and 2019 reported serious human rights violations against civilian populations: kidnappings, murders, forced displacement, sexual violence. but obviously these violations were perpetrated by both indian and pakistani forces. the unilateral decision of the indian prime minister on 5 august has only exacerbated this situation which is already on the verge of explosion. europe cannot remain inactive, it must advocate the establishment of an independent and transparent international inquiry into the violence in kashmir. europe must exert all its influence in its relations with india to restore to kashmir the autonomous status which the region has enjoyed since 1950. but europe must also support the efforts of the united nations to seek dialogue between india and pakistan, because it is in dialogue that the solution will be found.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to start by declaring an interest: that i was born in kashmir, and moved to the united kingdom at the age of four. however, it pains me to see what’s happening in kashmir. kashmir is in crisis: an international and human rights crisis. the people of kashmir have suffered, and continue to suffer. the eu is an organisation which proudly stands for human rights, right across the world, and we must stand today with the people of kashmir. the ongoing crisis in kashmir threatens the peace and security of the wider region – one of the most volatile in the world. it’s our responsibility to do something. the recommendations of the united nations commission on human rights (unchr) offer a good starting point for their actions. we must support them and implement the findings of their reports, which they published last year in june and this year in july. the institutions of the eu and their member states exist not only to protect the human rights of citizens in the european union, but they must also be defenders of human rights across the globe. the situation in kashmir will not improve by trying to blame either side: all the while people try to apportion blame, the people of kashmir are suffering and deserve better. the people of kashmir should be the ones who decide their fate and their future. self—determination and upholding human rights are fundamental values in our european union, and we should demand no less from others around the world – particularly those that want to trade and have relationships with us. the fighting in kashmir has been going on for decades, but, in the end, the crisis is going to be ended only when people sit around the table and talk. the eu can be a natural facilitator in this role, and that allows both sides to talk. the people of kashmir are crying out in the darkness. the eu must help them provide a light in that darkness.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, reports of serious human rights violations have been coming out of kashmir for more than a month now. the accounts of raids, arrests, clashes and unlawful detentions are truly appalling – and all of this while mobile phone networks are still largely under lockdown. we uk green meps demand that these human rights violations stop – not only for the sake of the population of kashmir, but also for the hundreds of thousands of british citizens who are of kashmiri origin. no peaceful resolution to the kashmir conflict is conceivable while these abuses continue. we demand that the indian authorities restore the basic freedoms of the kashmiri population, and we urge continued eu attention to this crisis.
mr president, india is the largest functioning democracy in the world. there are 200 million muslims who live peacefully with others in india, and it’s also a member of the g20. there are two supreme court actions going on: the continued stopping of mobile and internet services in 7% of jammu and kashmir, and the setting aside of article 370 and article 35a. the eu does not want to appear neo—colonial on matters that are sub judice. the indian supreme court is independent and does a really good job. according to indians, there are 40 new laws that will now apply to kashmiris: a ban on the triple talaq divorce that is terrible for women, prohibition of child marriage, protection of women from domestic violence, etc. – are these not human rights? there are 40 of them. so, please, look at the other side. there was a mention of the un plebiscite that they asked for in 1947: i have a video to show the us state department why this plebiscite didn’t happen – because the pakistani troops wouldn’t move back from the line of control.
madam president, we are having this debate and will vote today on this parliament’s fifth resolution on brexit on a day when the british parliament is under suspension. what a paradox, one might say. yes, i am convinced that most of us here continue to regret that brexit takes place and we continue to be committed to brexit in an orderly fashion. the withdrawal agreement to which this house has contributed by working very closely with michel barnier – thank you, michel – this agreement provides legal certainty to all those affected by brexit, on both sides, but in particular citizens and small businesses and citizens’ rights remain the major concern of this house. this agreement facilitates this, the unprecedented – and i must say impossible to understand – withdrawal of a modern state from a preferential trade area and the disentanglement of links created during 45 years of british membership in the union, with the least amount of disruption. this agreement creates also a good foundation, also political, upon which to build future relations between the eu and the uk. once it is finally approved, it will open the door for a status quo transition, giving time to negotiate alternative arrangements and a future relationship. the backstop, a temporary insurance policy tool, which is a measure of last resort, in principle never to be used, is an important part of this agreement. i regret that the uk has not, so far, put forward legally viable and operative alternative arrangements that could replace the backstop, delivering on all its objectives. we are patiently waiting for this to be done. there is still a chance for agreement and i believe that we must be clear that a no-deal solution would be entirely the responsibility of the british government. we know that even with the best preparedness, no deal is only a mitigating mechanism. no deal does not provide for a transition with a potential extension, it does not solve the issue of citizens’ rights, the irish border, the budgetary settlement, and let me say that in spite of everything that was said by the prime minister, i still hope for a deep, broad and close relationship based on regulatory convergence and respect for a level playing field.
madam president, we are here once again to discuss brexit democratically, freely and openly, as any parliament should be able to do at such a crucial moment. in fact, this european parliament is the only fully operational parliament representing british citizens today. the joint resolution tabled by the socialists, together with other major political groups, shows how united we are in asserting our position on this regrettable process of withdrawal of the uk from the eu. we fully respect the will of the british people. but if brexit is to happen, it should be done in an orderly way, as no—deal is for sure the worst way to do it. of course, we heard mr boris johnson saying that he wants to reach an agreement with the eu without the irish backstop. if not, the uk will leave the eu by the end of next month anyhow, even without a deal. but if mr johnson was really serious about the willingness to reach an agreement in the next few days, he would, by now, have made a very simple gesture: to put forward a written proposal on workable and legally operative alternative arrangements. he has failed to do so, and so he has failed to give evidence that he is serious about the willingness to avoid no—deal. so let me make it crystal clear: should the uk crash out of the eu without a deal, this would be entirely the responsibility of the uk government, no one else. both the house of commons and the house of lords approved an act obliging the uk government to ask for an extension of article 50 if an agreement has not been reached. there was never a mandate for no—deal given by the british people. there is now no mandate for no—deal given by the british parliament. therefore, we welcome the fact that this resolution makes clear that the european parliament would support an extension of article 50 to avoid a no—deal scenario. the way we see it, an extension of article 50 is also important for the uk to find a political solution and, when the time comes, to give control back to the people so that people can have a final say on brexit. (applause)
madam president, today we are in danger, grave danger, danger as perilous to the european union as it is to the united kingdom – the danger of allowing our fatigue with the almighty debacle that is brexit to make us too anxious to move on just to end it. the danger is to democracy, to stability, to the rule of law, to the sovereignty of parliaments everywhere and to the rights of citizens. i urge this parliament to support the motion, to overcome your brexit fatigue, to support an extension of article 50 to allow the uk parliament the time needed to defeat the would-be dictator who has lied and cheated and silenced the mother of all parliaments. the danger is real. (applause and heckling) brexit in any form is bad, bad for all of us, and a no-deal brexit is a disaster. it is worth taking the time needed to allow us to fight to stop it. (applause)
madam president, brexit has been a matter of frustration from the very start, a thing to be regretted, a thing of sadness, and from a scottish perspective it has also been a thing of grave injustice. we voted to remain within our family of nations, the people in northern ireland voted to remain within our family of nations, the peace process there is sacred and must be protected. scotland’s argument is not with you, i assure you, it is with a dysfunctional broken westminster that’s not fit for the modern world, not fit for the interconnected, interdependent world we live in. i don’t ask you to solve our domestic problems – you must deal with the interlocutors you’re dealt, i’m sorry for that – i’m trying today to avoid a terrible mistake for all of us, for scotland, for the uk and for the european union. i hear the argument every day back home that we need to get brexit delivered, we need to get brexit done, we need to get brexit past us. i hear the argument here also that you’re sick of british nonsense. me too, if it’s any consolation! i appreciate you want an orderly process to mitigate the damage of brexit, and i’m sorry, colleagues, i have news for you: there is no good brexit. there is no sustainable answer to this. the people that you are dealing with, the empty vessels of the conservative party, have even now exited the chamber and their tormentors have absolutely no plan for a durable, sustainable future relationship. if brexit happens with or without a deal, they will use that as a pretext to slash and burn at home in the uk, in scotland, wales, northern ireland and in england. social dumping, environmental dumping, economic dumping, right off your shores ... (loud protests from certain quarters)there is no such thing as a good brexit. there is no such thing as a good outcome to this. i cannot support the resolution today despite your best efforts and your good faith. i do not believe this withdrawal agreement will deliver because of your interlocutors. scotland has other chances in this. we need more time to reverse brexit. please give us that time. (applause) (hubbub)
madam president, i would like to thank you. brexit is currently characterised by a power struggle between the uk and the eu, with both sides finding it difficult to come up with concrete solutions. notice that just half a century ago we were in a very different situation. the uk then refused to join the european community's coal and steel union in the early 1950s for similar reasons as in the current brexit situation. the same thing happened in 1957 when the british felt that a customs union of the ec type with uniform, often protectionist, external tariffs would be too much of a straitjacket for the free-trade-oriented uk. the more open and politically binding european free trade association, efta, was immediately created as a competitor, along with sweden, among others, which - i would add - can manage with a hundred employees compared to the eu's nearly 50 000 employees in total in all the various institutions. the british voters have made their choice and they chose to leave the eu. it must be respected. now we politicians have to deliver both here and in britain.
madam president, my irish passport says that it is the entitlement and birth right of everyone born on the island of ireland to be part of the irish nation. as this resolution clearly states, we irish in the north of ireland are therefore entitled to eu citizenship where we reside. whilst the backstop is essential to prevent a hardening of the border partition in ireland to protect the all-ireland economy and north-south cooperation, it takes us out of the eu against our will. we in the north of ireland voted to remain. it is important that this parliament recognises, as stated in the resolution, the legitimacy of whatever choice is freely exercised by the majority of the people in the north of ireland as to our right to change its status, our right to self-determination as recognised in the good friday agreement in british and irish law. the european council statement stated that in the event of irish reunification all 32 counties would remain in the eu. french president macron stated that the solution to the brexit problem is irish reunification. lord ashcroft’s opinion poll, like others, shows a majority in favour of irish reunification. the good friday agreement provides a peaceful, democratic pathway back into the eu for the people of the north of ireland and that should be respected by all.
madam president, well, one thing is clear and that is, from the emollient tone we have heard this morning from juncker and barnier, that we are actually very close to the deal on the backstop being agreed at the summit on 17 october. of course, both sides will try and present this as a negotiating victory. it may be worth reminding ourselves that this treaty even without the backstop is a very bad deal for britain. it will leave us trapped inside european union rules, it will leave us under the auspices of the european court and, having given everything away in the withdrawal agreement, the worst part is that any future relationship relies on good faith. we put ourselves entirely in your hands. we put ourselves indeed at your mercy, and i would suggest that events that we’ve seen across europe this week do not indicate that good faith exists. i am, of course, referring to the pipsqueak prime minister of luxembourg, who set out to ritually humiliate a british prime minister in the most astonishing way, only to be greeted like a hero by president macron at the elysée palace yesterday. and it’s very clear to me that keeping us trapped inside this was barnier’s objective from the start, to keep us inside the customs union. we’ve heard from other speakers today that the fear is that the uk breaks out of the customs union, breaks out of single market rules and that we become more competitive and we become much wealthier outside the european union than within it. mr verhofstadt, we want no part of your european empire. the only way forward now, to deliver on the referendum, is for a clean-break brexit. once we’ve done that we will have a grown-up conversation about trade and about the way forward.(applause from certain quarters)
madam president, when i was a young student and started to get involved in politics, i looked at great britain as the highest example of what a democracy should be. not any more. today, british democracy is a shadow of what it was because of politicians like nigel farage. today, when great britain is living its darkest hours since the war, its parliament has been shut down. this parliament, in the very last moments of the negotiations, is open; the british parliament is closed. that’s the reason why we must all speak english here today, because we are representing not only the european people, but also the british people. this is today the british house of democracy as well. (applause) today, great britain has been taken over by nationalist politicians, unable to see beyond their own physical and mental borders. we have been negotiating in the fairest possible way. we have always acted in good faith. we never lied. jean-claude juncker and michel barnier are good negotiators, but they are gentlemen as well. i’m wondering if the current british prime minister can say the same. we will not oppose an extension if it is required, but we want to know until when and why, because we have no more time to waste. i urge the prime minister to respect the british parliament, and i urge him to respect democracy in europe because brexit now is not only a disaster but also the biggest mistake of current times.
madam president, we have a chaotic political situation in britain at the moment, but colleagues should not for one moment think that this prime minister, nor that lot over there, represent the entire british nation. they do not. (applause) although mr johnson claims that he is seeking a deal, he has not put any actual proposal on the table, and the ideas he sometimes floats for a solution are ones that would not be acceptable either here or to the british parliament. he is, in fact, heading towards a no—deal brexit. but the british parliament has legislated to prevent such an outcome and to require him to ask for an extension rather than have a no—deal brexit. a majority in the british parliament – remember he is now a minority government; he has lost ministers and has expelled members from his party – and every single opposition party, namely labour, the liberal democrats, the greens, the scottish nationalists and the welsh nationalists, now wants a new referendum. in such a referendum, faced with a boris johnson deal or a no deal, they would campaign to remain in the european union. it is important for colleagues to remember that. no matter how frustrated you are with the british government and its prime minister, bear with the british people. public opinion is shifting on this. a new referendum is justified because brexit bears no resemblance whatsoever to what that lot said during the referendum campaign. they said it would be easy. it’s difficult. they said it would save lots of money that would all go to the nhs. it’s costing a fortune. they said it would be good for the british economy and jobs. the opposite is proving true. that is why leave voters are entitled to say, ‘this is not what i was promised; this is not what i voted for’. it is also right to give the british people another chance to look at this. please bear with us. please give us that necessary extension. ask your prime ministers to give us the extension necessary for us to sort this out. (applause)
madam president, i was elected as a cross—community, pro—european voice for the people of northern ireland, a majority of whom voted to remain in the eu referendum, and for remain parties in the european elections. membership of the european union matters to us. our european citizenship is a shared identity uniting our people, both unionist and nationalist and the growing number of us who identify as neither. the good friday agreement was founded on european principles of interdependence and cooperation. it must be protected. yet our government, propped up by the dup, refused to hear us. the dup did not speak for a majority in 1998 when they opposed the good friday agreement. they do not speak for the majority in northern ireland now, either on brexit or on the backstop. there can be no good or sensible brexit, but a no—deal brexit would be catastrophic in northern ireland. ignore those who say that no—deal is no problem. listen to those who live and work across the border. they know differently. the uk parliament is working to try to avoid a no—deal brexit. we now need eu leaders and this parliament to give them the time they need to succeed and we appreciate your patience. brexit will affect all of our futures. it is important to get it right, not just get it done. (applause)
madam president, we’ve heard a lot today about emperor verhofstadt’s plan to build a new european empire. today he compared boris johnson to mrs doubtfire. let’s face it, mr verhofstadt is the darth vader of europe and this place is his death star, where national democracy comes to die. as for the empire, i’m here for the 17.4 million to strike back. 75 years ago, my forefathers fought and died on european soil fighting fascism. today, we are here to liberate the united kingdom from the european union. for the past three years, despite paying gbp 1 billion a month for membership, we have been treated with nothing but contempt, and today it got worse. as for the so-called level playing field, i’d hate to play football against you, mr barnier, as the match would be rigged. brexit has shown that the european union does not believe in democracy. today, we are expected to vote to call brexit a regrettable event. well, let me put it into language you understand: ‘je ne regrette rien’. we are leaving the european union and we have no regrets. (applause)
thank you, mr cuffe, and i approve of your choice of poet. i have quoted him in this chair.
the increasingly clear prospect of a no-deal brexit, or 'hard brexit', is a threat to everyone's interests. for europe, this development would mean difficulty in importing and exporting goods to the uk, and within the uk itself, economic uncertainty and a threat to the peace in northern ireland. the united kingdom will leave the european union, but it will not leave europe. the country will remain one of the largest economic partners and a reliable ally in nato. the security partnership is particularly important for those of us who will remain in the union. it is necessary to find a solution to the irish border problem which satisfies the united kingdom's current objections in this regard. the european union leaders must understand that in its present form the solution to the irish border proposed by mr barnier would threaten the constitutional integrity of the united kingdom and is unacceptable to our british partners. we can only expect a swift and effective solution to the brexit crisis once an agreement has been reached on this issue. otherwise we will contribute to jeopardizing not only europe's economic development but also its strength. and we could lose the trust of one of our most important partners.
madam president, this is my first speech in this august chamber, and hopefully my last. as i entered this building for the first time i saw a huge billboard with a quotation about free and fair elections. but i ask you all, what is the point of free and fair elections if the result is dishonoured? what is the point of free and fair elections if the losers refuse to accept defeat? what is the point of free and fair elections if freedom and fairness is sacrificed, because the elite think that they know best? the eu holds itself out as the torch bearer of global democracy, giving hope to oppressed people, but what is the point when it resents the democratic vote of its own people? in a few weeks, our prime minister boris johnson, my friend, may be forced to ask for an extension to the brexit negotiation deadline. if the eu truly believes in democracy, it has to reject that request, even if it doesn’t like the outcome. if you believe in democracy you have to stand with the british people. our exit is long overdue. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, amid the uncertainty about the united kingdom's options for leaving the european union and the misunderstanding raised by the behaviour of the british prime minister, the european parliament's position is timely. the resolution is a particularly clear message to the british political class and the british people. europeans favour an orderly exit, which guarantees civil peace in ireland, which respects the rights of european citizens residing in the united kingdom and those of british citizens established in the union, that is, an orderly exit in accordance with european rules and in compliance with the financial commitments of divorce. our message is also clear on an extension of the time limit by which we would decide if elections were to take place. now we look forward to the british prime minister making sensible proposals and taking responsibility. and since i am speaking of a prime minister who is taking up his responsibilities, i would like you to have a sad thought about someone we read about who has been suffering in silence for three years and wonders every day about the meaning of all this, david cameron, who, for tactical reasons, has unleashed this chaos which is not in keeping with the great british democratic tradition.
madam president, let’s be honest. a lot of people are tired; a lot of people are exhausted. they want to move on. they think that, if we do not grant the extension, then we can go about other business and we can actually get rid of all this drag that we have been seeing in the last month and in the last years. but, let us make no mistake. if we do not grant this extension and if there is a no—deal brexit, none of this nightmare would be over. the question of the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland would not be solved, the budgetary questions would not be solved, and the question of the eu and uk citizens and what their future is going to be would not be solved. so now is not the moment for short—sightedness. now is the moment for solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of british citizens who are marching in the streets. they are calling on us and counting on us to grant this extension in order to give them time to get out of this deadlock and find a solution to this mess that we are in. (applause)
i think you get the prize for sticking exactly to your time. well done!
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. listening to this debate, i ask myself: what can we learn from it? what should we be prepared for? well, the bottom line is this: we should prepare for the worst-case scenario of no deal. it's supposedly not what anyone wants, but it's probably the scenario that's waiting for us. i just want to emphasize one thing: the responsibility, the responsibility for this historic moment and for this disaster, the scale of which we cannot yet predict, will fall on both sides. and i hope that mr juncker and mr barnier, our chief negotiator, are also aware of this. i think that the negotiations should be resumed as soon as possible and carried out to avoid the consequence that threatens us. and postponing brexit indefinitely is also going nowhere, to even more chaos and legal uncertainty, so i ask you gentlemen to take action.
madam president, it is evident that we didn’t want the exit of the united kingdom and, even if we regret it, we fully respect the choice of british people. all the negotiations were carried out in a true spirit of cooperation and good faith, finding the best solutions for both sides. all this time, very much due to the stolidity, serenity and true british phlegm of michel barnier, we have shown goodwill, good faith and respect. if any european politician or leader has not respected, on any occasion, the british position or institutions, that is regrettable. please read our lips: we are open to consider your proposals, if you present them. we are open to an extension, if that is justified. you can believe us; we want to make your life easier, but we expect reciprocity. it is time to urge prime minister johnson. it is unfortunate that you decided to turn to american superheroes to express the inclination of the british government when you have much better sources of inspiration in modern and popular british literature. mr johnson, do you really believe that what we need here now are the hard skills of the incredible hulk? wouldn’t the skills of the very british, much smarter and magical harry potter serve you better, mr johnson? (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – for three years we’ve heard that the eu is a rules-based system. mr rangel mentioned the preparedness of the eu to negotiate with us a new form of withdrawal agreement, perhaps some alteration to the backstop. but i just want to remind this chamber that, by its own volition, clause 12 of the agreement which gives effect to the extension until 31 october prohibits any opening of the withdrawal agreement and any further renegotiation of that agreement. so how is it that this rules-based system can take that approach?
madam president, i would like to underline a lot of things that have been said by colleagues this morning, but i would like to add mention of one dimension to a no—deal brexit when it comes to foreign policy. michel barnier was referring to the political declaration and, yes, in the political declaration the eu and the uk have agreed on a broad future relationship with a free-trade area, police and judicial cooperation, and close cooperation on foreign policy, external security and defence. following a no—deal brexit, the united kingdom could no longer collaborate in existing and future projects of the european defence agency or in military projects under permanent structured cooperation (pesco). moreover, it would be difficult for uk defence companies to participate in projects under the european defence fund. these are additional arguments, dear colleagues from the far right, why it is so important to avoid a no-deal under all circumstances. i would like to welcome this motion for a resolution and i would like to thank our colleagues in the brexit steering group for once again doing a great job. (applause)
madam president, let’s be clear about where the blame for this mess lies. you start with impossible promises, saying we can keep the existing trade relationship with europe, but rip up the rulebook. you then say we can negotiate from a position of strength despite leaving the world’s largest economic bloc. you then decry all opponents of this fantasy as traitors, and you move on to say the british people voted for medicine and food shortages. they did not. the country i love is better than johnson, it’s better than them. mr barnier, you wish to move on, we all wish to move on, and i know many of my colleagues are fed up with this debacle. i get it, i understand it. but let’s not pretend that the withdrawal agreement would be sustainable without public sign—off. the british people need to put the reality of brexit up against remaining in the european union. give us the time and give us the options. that’s the only sustainable way forward.
madam president, we all know that britain's departure means weakening for the eu and it also means weakening for the united kingdom. i don't see how mr farage can claim that the united kingdom will be stronger, that it will be to his advantage. yes, perhaps to small european countries, but certainly not in a more favorable position to the united states, china or russia. it won't, it will make the united kingdom weaker. that's why i'm very sorry about this approach. and i'm sure that the citizens, when they voted in the referendum, did not vote for this chaos, for this uncontrolled departure, which means a huge uncertainty. and if britain does leave without a deal, then it will still have to negotiate a new deal to meet the conditions that are crucial, namely financial settlement, to resolve the status of the millions of eu citizens who are in britain. so leaving without a deal is a disaster for both sides.
madam president, under the johnson premiership we are witnessing the decline of decency in the age of populism. johnson is a most disreputable prime minister, and an embarrassment both to his party and to country. a misogynist, a homophobe, an islamophobe, a dangerous clown – a dangerous clown chosen by less than 2% of our population. he plays fast and loose with people’s lives. his no—deal brexit threatens shortages of food and life—saving drugs, threatens peaceful coexistence. yes, brexit will cost lives, as well as livelihoods – and it already has. we have a government policy decided by an unelected advisor, dominic cummings, who is a man in contempt of our parliament. is this taking back control? we have a government that is eroding trust in our institutions, from the civil servants to the courts, judges, our democratic foundations ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i have a question for commissioner barnier. i’m not sure if he’s got an opportunity to reply in this debate, but quite simply: if there is no deal, is it correct to say that exchange of information between europol, our policing centre, and all uk police forces, would stop, and therefore that the opportunities for organised crime in the uk would be much, much greater?
madam president, i want to start by apologising for the behaviour of a small minority of my compatriots, both in this chamber and in my country. they do not represent the decent, polite and pro-european majority of my people. (applause from certain quarters) brexit is a mess created entirely by leavers because they’ve never been able to agree on what type of brexit they wanted. it’s a mess that has laid bare the broken nature of uk politics. we need a people’s vote so that the british people can finally choose between one clear leave option and remain, which is by far the best deal for us. we therefore need more time. no deal, crashing out, cannot be an option. it would be an act of catastrophic self-harm. so i urge colleagues to do everything possible, whatever their role, to help us avoid such an outcome. just as we in the uk are doing on the streets... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the importance of the negative consequences that brexit will have for both sides in many areas has been mentioned. i would like to dwell on the fisheries relations between the european union and the united kingdom, which is so well known to the lead negotiator, mr barnier. if brexit does happen without the withdrawal agreement and the planned transition coming into force, we must minimise the damage to the fishing fleet operating in uk waters. i would like, through the contingency measures that we are taking on both sides, to ensure access, to maintain access to these waters, at least temporarily, while the agreements on the future relationship between each other are being negotiated. yeah, i know you don't like it, but we do. and here i'm going to stop for a moment. i would like to emphasize that one of the objectives of the european union must be to reach an agreement which maintains reciprocal access between waters and to fishery resources. this agreement would have advantages for fishermen and would also allow ... (the president withdrew the floor).
madam president, the defence of any country and the means to conduct that defence are a central attribute of sovereignty and are the first responsibility of any government. i am therefore very concerned that the may government collaborated with the commission – after the uk voted to leave – to lock britain’s defence and intelligence capabilities into the various eu structures. that is intended to subordinate britain’s intelligence and defence capabilities under the control of an unaccountable commission. this is crystal clear in the political declaration, clauses 104 to 106, which is an integral part of the binding law of the withdrawal agreement under article 184. i am extremely concerned that uk mps have failed by a dereliction of their duty to understand this threat, and i would therefore urge our mps in the uk in the strongest terms to reject any attempt to bring back this awful deal and deliver a clean brexit.
in writing. i agree with the council statement, which is clear and firm on brexit. the commission and parliament were also clear. the european institutions did not want brexit, and much less do they want a disorderly exit. we are all european citizens, in addition to our national citizenship. we have a responsibility to represent the interests of the citizens. i therefore ask the commission, the brexit negotiator-designate and the council to ensure the protection of european citizens living in the uk, as well as british citizens living in eu countries. the integrity of the internal market must be ensured. the uk has to sign a trade agreement with the eu whereby it will have to comply with eu product conditions and standards. the responsibility for the negative effects on the citizens of the united kingdom, and we have to say this clearly and explicitly to the citizens, is those politicians who have manipulated with misleading information, saying that britain will have free market access, that they will keep the same rights, but they will win because they will no longer contribute to the eu budget. as a romanian, i know that romania has considerable trade and it will suffer. the eu loses an important member of the eu, but is obliged to respect the treaty.
in writing. – eighty years since the start of wwii, which devastated our continent, we once again allowed the obscure forces of populism and extreme nationalism to return to our societies. how quickly we forgot the post-war state of europe and what the totalitarian regimes and violence brought us. from bulgaria to the netherlands, from the north to the south of europe extremist and xenophobic political forces want to demolish our shared home and we need to fight every day for democracy, freedom and tolerance in europe. therefore, i completely support the proposal to commemorate 23 august as the european day of remembrance for the victims of totalitarian regimes at both eu and governmental level. it is our duty to raise the younger generation’s awareness of these issues by including the history and analysis of the consequences of totalitarian regimes in the textbooks of all schools in the eu. the memories of europe’s tragic past must be kept alive. only then can we teach our children not to repeat the mistakes of the past
in writing any member state can leave the eu. it is sufficient to constitutionally activate article 50 teu and to follow a two-year preparatory period. the problem is that the member states are so closely linked economically by the very nature of the eu that leaving the eu should be the result of mature deliberation by responsible politicians, who first weigh all the pros and cons of doing so. for example, greenland, as an autonomous part of denmark, left the european communities in 1985 following a referendum. he was not happy with the way the fisheries policy was set up. no one was making trouble then, and greenland has a lot of agreements with the eu, and the relationship is working smoothly. a hard brexit would weaken both britain and the eu. but it seems that the eu is more. several banks and insurance companies have already announced that they would move their headquarters from london to frankfurt or elsewhere in the eu. britain would lose access to european markets and to the workforce. from a security perspective, it would no longer be able to participate in joint european defence projects and would also lose access to projects such as the energy union and the digital single market. although president trump has indicated that he wants to give britain a favourable trade deal, it will hardly be based on the principle of equality, or with as many benefits as eu membership provides.
the european union (eu) has maintained a negotiating strategy of respect for the british people and their decisions, while safeguarding the interests of european citizens in the united kingdom and remaining united in the definition of a fair exit agreement that is a factor of stability and reference. the resolution signed by the main political groups, which is currently being considered and approved in this parliament, stresses the virtues of the withdrawal agreement signed between the parties, particularly as regards the steps to be taken and the transitional rules, in order to ensure an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu, which does not make a future good political, economic and social relationship between the parties unfeasible. it also sets out the safeguards to be adopted in the event of a 'no-deal' situation and the circumstances which may justify a further extension of the deadline for the application of article 50. as a member of the european parliament and as a citizen, i would like the united kingdom to remain in the eu, but i respect the sovereign will of its people. in this context, i will do everything to guarantee, with or without an agreement, the rights of european citizens and businesses, and that is why i am revising the resolution under discussion in today's plenary session.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
rapporteur. – mr president, first i would thank the shadow rapporteurs and the secretariat for their work on this file. i will be brief but it’s important that these points are put on the record. this draft amending budget no 2 is somewhat different to the norm. it is in fact the final element of the 2019 budget settlement, negotiated last december in the second conciliation between parliament and the member states in council. the agreement with the council was that the final element would be presented as an amending budget during 2019, so today we complete that agreement by reinforcing two programmes which, more than any others, reflect in their outcomes the economies of scale and added value of the union budget, erasmus+ and horizon 2020. the heavily oversubscribed student programme will receive an additional eur 20 million and horizon will receive eur 80 million, which will fund research into technologies that will help address the climate emergency. this investment budget reflects the truth that our collective endeavours as a union enable us to achieve more than any member state in or out of the union would achieve alone. i thank the house for its indulgence and recommend your support. (applause)
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments while explanations of vote were awaited)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from the same country as my colleague mr alexandr vondra, but i voted for this resolution. because i respect the british parliament's resolution that says the uk cannot leave without a deal. that is why i think that the european parliament has reacted correctly in proposing a possible delay in the event of a no deal. we're not forcing the uk into our deal, it's a deal that their prime minister signed. the uk can make amendments to this agreement, it can negotiate an amendment, but it has not proposed an amendment. the european parliament is showing great patience and willingness, as is the negotiator, mr michel barnier, to change this agreement if the uk proposes any changes.
mr president, i have voted in support of this resolution today, not because i want to see the withdrawal agreement implemented, since any form of brexit would be damaging and regrettable for all, but because the text acknowledges an extension is possible in order to avoid no-deal and for the uk to hold a democratic event, such as a referendum or general election, as well as to revoke article 50 outright. i want to thank the pro-europeans across this house, who continue to show solidarity with us in the face of the dangerous nationalist populist drive begun by a man in that part of the chamber, who only turns up here to stamp his feet and collect his allowance. the same desire to put personal ambition over our common and national interests unfortunately now emanates from number 10 downing street. however, there is also a strong, and growing, pro-european movement happening in the uk. it is indeed, perhaps, now the strongest in europe, as guy verhofstadt has previously said. to my pro-european colleagues, who make up the majority in this house, i say we must continue to work together to defeat the forces of nationalism and populism and not let them win.
mr president, i voted against mr verhofstadt’s empire resolution. i believe in a clean -break brexit. why do i believe that? 58 % of people in the east midlands voted to leave. 62 % in coastal communities like folkestone and hythe voted to leave. 17.4 million people in the uk – the democratic majority – voted to leave. for the past three hours here, in the european parliament, i’ve listened to all sorts of meps telling those people they didn’t know what they were doing. telling those people that they have to listen to the eu and only when they agree with this institution can they even begin to have some sense of democracy. mr barnier made it absolutely clear that, whatever the backstop deal may or may not be, there will be no escape from the customs union for the 17.4 million people who voted to leave. british democracy must be respected. it’s time to leave. it’s time for a clean-break brexit.
mr president, i supported the resolution today because it recognises the prospect of britain revoking article 50 to stop brexit. i believe that this will happen, because boris johnson has no majority in the uk parliament. that is why he has tried to shut parliament down and is blocking a people’s vote on the specific withdrawal agreement. the 2016 referendum was vague and with much misinformation: lies about money and lies that turkey would join this european union. i see no turkish meps here. boris johnson said it would be easy and make us better off. he no longer pretends that is true. the 2016 decision is old and stale. britain in 2019 is a different place, and young people want the european union. no one voted for food or medicine shortages, for blocked ports or motorways, which our government admits are real risks. we can do so much better than brexit, we are a great country and we will put this behind us.
mr president, today i voted in favour of parliament’s brexit motion. i don’t like may’s deal and i don’t like brexit – i hate it – but any deal should go in front of the people. it’s their future, but boris is playing with it for his own party’s sake. what voters want is for brexit to stop. my party, of jo swinson and the liberal democrats, are committed to the eu and its citizens. when we become the government, we will revoke article⁰50 to stop brexit altogether. our aim is to stay inside the european union. this motion recognises our responsibility to brexit’s citizens. they chose to build lives somewhere else, as is their right. their lives have been in turmoil. eu governments must now all work to sort this out quickly. citizenship is a right. we are setting up another windrush scandal and it must not happen. i and the lib dems are – and always will be – committed to doing what is best for the uk and the eu. we need time to vote on the deal or to choose to stay with all the benefits of full membership.
mr president, i voted in support of this resolution and urged parliament’s support. i would like to make clear that i do not support any brexit deal. whether deal or no-deal, i believe with all my heart that any brexit is bad for the uk and for the european union, and i will continue to campaign to stop brexit. but this motion is important because it specifically recognises that the uk parliament enacted a law to require the prime minister to ask for an extension, and it supports an extension being granted to avoid a no-deal exit, hold an election or referendum, or revoke brexit altogether. boris johnson is not acting in the interests of uk citizens. he has shut down parliament. he states that he will break the law to bring about brexit, no matter the consequences. he is acting as a dictator and we need time to defeat him through the democratic process.
mr president, well, this wasn’t the plan, was it? instead of sunlit uplands, the best we are offered is survival. instead of the easiest trade deal in history, we face negotiating from the weakest position possible, of no deal at all. instead of the restoration of the sovereignty that we never in fact lost, we face the harsh reality of a powerful neighbour making rules in which we will have no say but which market reality will dictate that we have little option but to follow. entire industries sacrificed, market shares squandered, world leadership trashed, the rights and freedoms of every british citizen diminished: that’s the reality of this brexit. not at all what was said on the tin! what on earth has been won? britain outside the european union will discover soon enough that national sovereignty in the modern world has serious limitations. we hear a lot about democracy, but without accountability democracy withers. take your false promises and your reality back to the british people and let them decide the reality of brexit. (aplause)
mr president, dear oh dear, well, after that delusional guff, let me reassure everyone in the chamber that nigel farage does indeed still speak for the pro—brexit majority in my country. and, as for this resolution, dear oh dear, a ‘regrettable event’ is what you’re calling brexit. well, maybe for you, with the uk cash cow out the door, but the british people clearly don’t agree with you. look around: the biggest party in this chamber, the brexiteers, we’re standing up and we’re making sure that the pro—leave majority are represented. as for the withdrawal agreement being fair and balanced: as they say in my country, you must be having a laugh. we’ve seen straight through it. the brexit party is highlighting why it’s wrong for our country, why it’s the worst deal in history and we are fighting hard now for a clean-break brexit. and you need to face up to the fact that, in our country, support for no-deal is rising. we’ve got the establishment on the run. we beat you in 2016 and we’ll do it again. the brexit party is here to stay and we will leave the european union. (applause)
mr president, first, i would like to thank this wonderful democratic institution for your support for the uk and your patience in backing a further extension of article 50. a no-deal brexit would be utterly terrifying for many uk and eu citizens. the risks are highest for the most vulnerable. one such group are those living in the uk who depend upon medicines imported from europe. there are large numbers of people whose health depends on the smooth and reliable importation of medicines which have a short shelf-life and require refrigeration. no one can guarantee that these medicines will be able to get through in the transport chaos that would follow a no-deal brexit. that any government is even contemplating putting such vulnerable citizens deliberately at risk is a truly shocking situation. it is the need to prevent this risk that has led members from across the house of commons and in this house bitterly to oppose a no-deal brexit. there is no mandate for a no-deal brexit and no one voted to deny themselves or their neighbours crucial medicines. the risks of a no-deal brexit are very real but, in the longer term, any brexit deal puts the uk citizens in a worse position.
mr president, first of all like i’d like to say it’s wonderful to see a few of the british meps turning up for the vote earlier. where were they for the entire debate? they were probably in the bar having croissants. the rest of it has been a blizzard of lies, smears, half-truths and blatant misrepresentations. and, as for the ludicrous assumption that britain operates under a dictator, dictators don’t offer general elections, do they? (cheers from certain quarters)and when they do offer general elections you do not accept them because you know that corbyn and labour will be obliterated across the midlands, north and wales, especially in ashfield where i intend to stand and help destroy jeremy corbyn and the ruthless mess he’s left, where he has abandoned the working classes. seventy percent of people in ashfield, my local constituency, voted to leave. corbyn doesn’t care about them, this house doesn’t care about the british voice. this parliament does not understand the british people. it does not represent the british people and it will not stop 17.4 million voices from being heard. we’re leaving. auf wiedersehen. bye. au revoir. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution but i do not want brexit at all. one of the most crucial points in this resolution for me, as a uk health professional for over two decades, concerns the employment status and social entitlements of eu and uk citizens. the ability of staff from the eu to work for the uk health service – the nhs – remains severely threatened by brexit. three years ago, 11% of staff employed by the nhs were from other eu member states. that figure has now halved to just over 5.5%. this huge reduction in numbers is due to people being fearful about the right to remain in the uk if brexit were to happen, and uncertainty about social entitlements in the event of a no—deal brexit. so, this resolution is welcome. it will offer assurance to eu workers living and working in the uk that their rights will remain the number one priority in the eu.
mr president, this is the hardest vote that i have ever cast. i wholeheartedly welcome parliament’s commitment to an extension of article 50, but any withdrawal agreement must go back to the british people. in a referendum, if it was put to the people now with the option to remain, i am confident that we would now win the vote to stop brexit. why? because this time, young people will come out to vote. youngsters in britain are angry. around three-quarters of kids who were too young to vote back in 2016 and have now reached that voting age, say that they back remain. so, wherever you come from, other europeans, please go back to your leaders and ask them in council to support any bid for an extension. please give british youngsters a chance to decide their own future.
mr president, as a businessman, i cannot understand why any entrepreneur would want to give up a market of 512 million people for a 65 million market. the low-hanging fruit is so great with 500 million people, with seasonality and everything else. as the founder of ebookers.com, i saw my sales go up to a billion dollars in five years, and the reason is that we had a market of 300 million people. none of my competitors who were just selling to 60 million people in the uk could keep up. what will most entrepreneurs do if we brexit? open an office in dublin or amsterdam or frankfurt or paris and move jobs to these cities. talk about shooting ourselves in the foot!
mr president, mr patten over there clearly doesn’t understand that 62% of voters is not the same as 62% of people – lying once again. as we saw in the windrush scandal, our government knows a thing or two about cruelly splitting families and this is exactly what they plan to do again. europe is a family of nations and peoples and allowing the tories to wrench us out of this family will cause untold harm, both to the uk and to our european friends and partners. just as brexit will divide the european family of nations, i fear it will be the death knell of the british family of nations. born in england, raised in scotland, i consider myself a child of two nations, of two unions: british and european. our united kingdom is 218 years old and johnson, farage and their braying lackeys are about to sabotage it. these saboteurs have betrayed the people of northern ireland and ridden roughshod over the rights of scotland and i have a warning for them – the english have tried many times to infringe the rights of scotland and we risk seeing a generation of william wallaces if johnson is allowed to continue.
mr president, i voted for this. on 2 december, the belfast agreement – the last peace agreement made inside europe – will have its 20th birthday. it’s guaranteed by this european union. saturday is international peace day. i fear for that peace if we are thrown out as a consequence of the lies, self interest and distortion of the leave campaign and the ever absent nigel farage – a man who simply doesn’t care.
mr president, i would like to comment on the vote that has already taken place. i of course respect the decision of the british people on brexit, but at the same time i am glad that this resolution, which is why i also supported it, allows for a delay in brexit, if the united kingdom decides to do so, of course. the court of justice of the european union has ruled that the activation of article 50 can be unilaterally withdrawn. it is important to me that we protect the rights of eu citizens living in the british isles, and of course we do not want any hard border that threatens the peaceful coexistence on the island of ireland. these are two of the limits which are also included in this resolution, and i was therefore happy to support them. on the other hand, what my colleagues on the left of the spectrum, the brexit party, are saying here: i want to remind them that they only won their seats thanks to the european electoral system, because according to national rules, almost no one, no brexit party mp would have been elected.
the president was very pleased with the legislation and the debate we had here this morning on the laws the united kingdom has made in the union. the commission is aware of the importance of the laws in question, of the need to protect the environment and of the need to protect the environment. august a vote was here we have the chianaibh - 544 i bhfabhar, 126 i gcoinne - is móramh mór is sin. freisin, it was an-happy that you were in the cabinet today and that you are happy to continue to love and give to the prime-aire, boris johnson, but i think you are wrong. therefore, we could no longer do anything at that time. is féidir a rá gur lá maith is don aontas - drochlá, bfhéidir, don bhreatimeacht - agus is maith sin. it is not possible to say that the eu is not a good thing.
mr president, they may not have intended to, but colleagues in this house have just made an orderly brexit with a deal much less likely. the uk has accepted in the withdrawal agreement a number of disagreeable and difficult concessions – a continuing role for the ecj, asymmetric arbitration mechanism, a gbp 39 billion bill that no international tribunal would uphold. the only thing which it wouldn’t accept is replacing a status that has an exit mechanism, i.e. eu membership, with one that doesn’t, i.e. the backstop, and by insisting on that point in this declaration, this house has made it almost impossible to see a way that the two sides could have orderly and amicable withdrawal resolutions. i have to say, this idea that we’re suffering a brexit crisis is based on something that you all fail to notice – that brexit hasn’t happened! what we’re seeing is the opposite of the brexit crisis. we’re seeing an un-brexit crisis. we’re seeing a crisis caused by the refusal of our opposition parliamentarians to do what they promised when they sought election. there will be a reckoning for them when the election comes. i just hope that the legitimacy and authority of our parliamentary institutions isn’t collateral damage.
mr. speaker, i am very sorry that british politicians are competing with brexit. brexit has become a means rather than an end, and that's bad. no one is going to win here, and it seems that all but a few are trying to minimize the damage. it is possible to extend the withdrawal date, but only if it is justified, for a specific reason, such as elections, a referendum or the time needed to ratify the agreement. but we must also be aware, throughout this process, that we must do everything we can to protect our interests, our citizens, our values. there's a lot of effort on the island to put a black mark on european politicians. but actually, we should be gluing it on ourselves. and if there is a no-deal, they will be the only ones who will have to answer to their citizens.
mr president, when i moved to the uk from germany over 20 years ago, i came to a global britain that welcomed me with open arms. britain’s eu membership has afforded me rights and guarantees and allowed me to build a life in the country i love. but today three million eu citizens in the uk face a climate of fear and uncertainty. boris johnson promised that they would not be disadvantaged by brexit. he has broken this promise like so many others. the settlement scheme is not fit for purpose. it has been marred with technical problems and has left many, particularly the most vulnerable, unable to prove their eligibility. we must have a system that is easy to use, a system whereby people can simply register – not one where they have to find dozens of documents dating back many years – otherwise we risk another windrush scandal on a much greater scale. this is why i voted for the resolution. but let’s face the fact: the only way to guarantee citizens’ rights in britain is to stop brexit.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 162) on the fight against cancer (2019/2818(rsp)). i would like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council! more than 40% of europeans - including the people in this chamber - will get cancer in their lifetime. we all know the feeling that goes with it: helplessness, you don't want to acknowledge it. you listen to the doctors, you deny reality, and yet you know that one in two cancer patients will die from it. you feel powerless. these are the feelings behind this existential question of cancer, and that is why this question is our question, our political question at european level. three out of four europeans as indicated by surveys have called for the fight against cancer to become a top european issue. we, as the european people's party, want to do just that: to meet the demands of the europeans. european scientists have already shown us what medical progress can achieve. for example, eight out of ten patients with breast cancer are now cured. together with 15 leading cancer researchers from finland to portugal, from france to romania, we as the epp - and i as the lead candidate - presented this spring a master plan that can make europe more effective in the fight against cancer. why europe? ladies and gentlemen, cancer is quite complex, and it comes in countless forms. for example, every year, 40,000 children are diagnosed with extremely rare cancers. here, europe can - if we work together - because of the sheer size of the cases and the data behind them, achieve much more scientific success if we cooperate and work together. 18 000 oncologists, 15 000 hospitals, 107 cancer research institutes in europe, 179 universities that are involved in this field. if we can put this data together, if we can develop a common plan to fight cancer, then we will be more successful. for example, professor angelika eggert of the charité in berlin wrote to me: 'with an ambitious european approach, we can successfully cure nine out of ten childhood cancer patients in ten years. professor thierry philip of paris added: "by combining prevention with early detection, with the help of personalized medicine, we could simply double the survival rates of patients with malignant tumors. it is possible, and we must do it now. what can be done? first, we need a common strategy for cancer prevention. let's prevent cancer from happening in the first place. secondly, we need to finally connect all our existing national cancer databases, create a european digital data centre for these cancer files, so that we can fight cancer earlier. we need a common early detection strategy: let's cure cancer in time! and fourth, we must leave no one behind. in particular, in central and eastern european countries, cancer patients have 30% less chance of being cured than in western european countries. this is unacceptable in europe, and that is why we can raise standards in central and eastern europe by means of modern forms of telemedicine. finally, let us also think of the relatives affected by these cancers. a cancer patient initiative that takes into account the concerns of the relatives should be our common goal. it is important for us as the european people's party to start now. we have received a new mandate from the citizens of europe, and it is now up to us to make progress. that is why we, as the european people's party, are not only asking for the debate to take place today; we are asking for it to be held in the near future. we not only ask that we need more priorities in this master plan, based on the commission's work so far, but we also want, as the european people's party, that there should be a special committee of the european parliament in the future to deal with this cancer strategy as a committee. it is our concern. we want to take it up.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it’s an honour to address this assembly today to discuss the fight against cancer as part of this topical debate. it comes at the right point in time. recently published research shows that cancer is already on course to become the leading cause of death in most eu countries, as mortality due to cardiovascular diseases is decreasing. the same research shows that for cancer the high mortality is not mainly related to risk factors but might be correlated to access to healthcare. as we know, cancer is a disease that more often strikes older people. we europeans who live longer than in other parts of the world are therefore more prone to get cancer. so how do we tackle the increasing challenge that cancer poses to our societies? do we resign in the face of fate or do we fight back? i think we have chosen as the eu to fight back. the finnish presidency firmly believes that the eu needs to put people at the centre of policymaking. we propose to start by embracing a new concept, the ‘economy of well-being’. the economy of well-being is a holistic, multi-sectoral approach that highlights the need to invest in people and their health. we think health and access to healthcare are fundamental for well-being and see health as an investment. we propose to invest in prevention and health promotion. all eu citizens should have the possibility to lead a healthy life and acquire good health habits as those are cornerstones in the prevention of cancer: they should also have equal access to healthcare, which is one of the principles of the european pillar of social rights and supports the implementation of the sustainable development goals. with such high goals set, there is a need for close collaboration between different institutions, stakeholders and sectors. more specifically, in the eu there seems to be agreement that cancer should be a priority. that requires action through different means such as research, access to treatment, and screening. in april this year, parliament and the council provisionally agreed to include a cancer mission in the future horizon europe, the next research and innovation framework programme. more research will allow us to better understand cancer, put in place better prevention and diagnostic methods, and allow for better treatment options, as well as allowing member states to better tailor public health interventions. many of you have on several occasions asked the commission for strong actions against cancer in general, but also for actions targeted against specific types of cancer. you notably established a cancer group. political groups have taken action and you have adopted resolutions asking the commission and the member states to intensify their efforts to fight cancer. on the council side, member states are also very concerned about cancer. the council dedicated several sets of conclusions, as well as a council recommendation on cancer screening, to this important challenge. at member state level, action was taken to strengthen the means of healthcare systems to face this challenge. the commission has also reacted to our calls and cancer is one of the main priorities in the incoming commission. the european plan to fight cancer that we expect the commission to propose should have strong links to the horizon europe cancer mission. we welcome efforts aiming at strengthening eu cooperation on cancer prevention. in our view, it is important that member states learn from each other and that good practices are disseminated and promoted. this would contribute to ensuring that all eu citizens are given equal opportunities to lead a healthy life with minimal risk of developing cancer. we are looking forward to the new plan to be proposed by the commission. we count on the commission to involve member states, wherever appropriate, in the development of that plan. we also stand ready to cooperate with parliament in raising awareness on cancer as one of the main killers in europe. thank you very much for this discussion and for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is probably my last speech before this chamber, so allow me to be a little bit personal. anyway, i believe i have full legitimacy to get personal when speaking about cancer. i know first—hand the emotional and physical consequences of this disease, having lost three beloved brothers. i know how it feels when you are face to face with a diagnosis and you know it is too late. therefore, let me be clear. if we want to get serious about beating cancer, we need to start putting our money into the remedies that cannot be prescribed only by a doctor or health commissioner. it is a political question. i agree with you, mr weber: these remedies are in the hands of those who make policies on risk factors and determinants – commercial, social and political determinants – which facilitate risk factors. these remedies are in our own hands as well, when we smoke, eat junk food or abuse alcohol. and it is about the economy of well-being – i agree with madam minister. in 2014, when i took up my position as commissioner for health and food safety, i announced that one of my major priorities was the promotion and protection of health and the prevention of diseases. i preached for this but the paradigm shift is yet to come. however, we have worked hard and we have achieved some tangible results. tobacco consumption fell, through legislation and anti—smoking campaigns. european union legislation on chemicals, pesticides and exposure to carcinogens, including at work, was upgraded. we have spread the word on prevention, particularly thanks to the improvement of the european code against cancer. the european cancer information system (ecis) is now up and running and accessible – it monitors geographic patterns and cancer trends – along with national cancer plans to be adopted. in recent years we have seen continuous improvement in the coverage and quality of national screening programmes for breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer. as you know, october is a month dedicated to breast cancer and i have my ribbon especially for that occasion. better vaccination coverage will impact on infections and cancers caused by the human papillomavirus (hpv) and hepatitis b. in this context, i am proud to inform you that last week the commission, together with the world health organisation (who), organised the first global vaccination summit, where immunisation against hpv was placed high on the agenda. also, since march 2017, we have established 24 european reference networks, of which four are dealing specifically with rare and complex cancers, especially in children. this is across the european union. we took a major step forward in terms of alcohol nutrition labelling and finally came to a consensus. i have cooperated fully with the european cancer organisation to help increase awareness. the new regulations on medical devices entered into force on 25 may 2017. furthermore, we have taken the ambitious decision to evaluate jointly the eu orphan regulation and the eu regulation on medicines for children because cancer treatment for children is a very challenging issue. this work is not finished: we will continue to add to it. i wish i could have done more, as we are facing important societal challenges, such as an aging population with multimorbidity. there is a growing cost of non-communicable diseases and new treatments, and unfortunately we are still only spending about three percent of our resources on prevention. this is a drop in the ocean. we need to increase this amount and make sure that what we spend is spent effectively. one way to achieve this is by sharing best practices between member states. the european union steering group on health promotion, disease prevention and management of non—communicable diseases is very valuable in this respect as it identifies member states’ priorities and highlights best practices that can be transferred, scaled up and implemented with european union support. the commission’s best practice portal has proved to be a powerful tool as it picks up top-quality practices that can be adapted and reproduced across europe. the interactive eu health policy platform also helps civil society, including patients’ organisations and health professionals, to promote debate about public health concerns and especially concerns related to cancer. we also deliver the state of health in the eu cycle that will help member states to create better health care policies for those who suffer from cancer. communicating risks to citizens and enabling healthy choices are vital parts of any prevention strategy. we have put a lot of effort, including in relation to healthy food, into the common agricultural policy, and so on. technological and scientific developments offer immense potential when it comes to cancer prevention, treatment and care. for example, we can expect a future where we will have much more precise treatments based upon the genomic signature of the patient. i am very glad that we have already started the european ‘1+ million genomes’ initiative. investment in research and innovation has been a long-standing priority for the commission. through its framework programme for research, the commission has invested some eur 2.8 billion since 2007 on prevention, diagnostics, therapeutics, cost—effectiveness and the quality of life of patients and cancer survivors. from 2021 onwards, horizon europe will promote open science and maximize the potential for innovation. in the proposal for horizon europe, the commission has introduced the mission approach, which would help to build coalitions to address the most pressing global european challenges including cancer. one of the first mission areas identified for horizon europe is action on cancer to mobilise a broad spectrum of stakeholders, including citizens, patients and all those who care for them. i also believe that the work that began with the european reference networks for rare diseases can pave the way to a better ecosystem for patients, with big data, artificial intelligence, universities and industry working together building big ecosystems, or maybe some health ‘collider’, especially addressing cancer. i will be more than happy to see that in the future. i want to say a few words on an ongoing initiative that plays a key role in the discussions about innovation. the commission’s proposal for a regulation to strengthen european union cooperation on health technology assessment (htl) aims to facilitate access to innovative health technology, and access to treatment is a major issue today. the proposal has already passed the european parliament scrutiny process. i count on your continued support to make this initiative a success and i would like the finnish presidency to finalise the work on this issue. all these are important steps in the right direction, but it is essential that this progress, this innovation and these developments reach the patients who need them the most. i am pleased to see that the commissioner—designate’s mission letter focuses on ways to help ensure that europe has a supply of affordable medicines to meet its needs. i am also delighted that the commission’s new president-elect has included the europe’s beating cancer plan in her political priorities. this is a very important message. cancer is a relentless disease. let’s not give up. i thank this house for its support during my time in office. i also seize the opportunity to encourage the council of the european union and all the institutions to renew our common determination and political will in the fight against cancer, as was done back in the 1990s when françois mitterrand gave impetus to the europe against cancer initiative and it helped us very much for a long time. we must continue to work together to prevent cancer, promote health and improve treatment and care. i look forward to hearing your views. (applause)
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner andriukaitis, ladies and gentlemen, one in three europeans will be affected by cancer during their lifetime. each year, about 1.3 million people die of cancer in the european union. these numbers are dramatic and they will increase. we are facing an explosion of chronic diseases and some experts predict that the number of cancer cases in europe will double by 2035. so this is really an emergency and a priority. i am referring to the new european plan to combat cancer: prevention - you have spoken of this, mr commissioner - diagnosis, treatment, support and palliative care... we can and must improve things in every stage of the disease, that's clear. but cancer is also a disease that is often multifactorial, that can take many faces. a european code against cancer has existed since 1987 and since 2014 it includes twelve common sense recommendations. we were told: don't smoke, exercise, eat a healthy diet, be careful of the sun, be careful of radon. despite all these recommendations, cancer rates are still rising. why would you do that? maybe it's because we're looking in the wrong direction. you really have to have a multi-factor action plan. a plan that says stop night work for women, which increases the risk of breast cancer by 30 percent. a plan that would ban the use of pesticides to prevent farmers and farm workers from being among those with the highest rates of prostate cancer. a plan to phase out, commissioner, endocrine disruptors and substances of concern to protect the health of consumers and to reduce their overall exposure to these chemical residues that accumulate in our organs. a plan to get out of the air pollution we breathe that's making us sick. we really need to increase prevention. of course, there is access to medicines for all, and of course we must fight the shortage of medicines that is emerging. but it takes a lot of boldness and innovation to fight cancer.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, i should like to begin by saying that i very much welcome the fact that both the new commission president and the ppe group have included the fight against cancer in their programme as one of the priorities for the new period. unfortunately, it's not clear, especially with the first lady, what level she wants to fight this vast problem at. let's face it, the current commission has taken very different positions on the fight against cancer. on the one hand, it has proclaimed the importance of prevention, and on the other hand, it has blatantly and illegally ignored its duty to regulate the use of so-called endocrine disruptors, which are one of the reasons why cancer in all its forms is so prevalent in society today. the culmination of this effort was the european commission's re-authorisation of glyphosate, which was protested by both the lay and professional medical communities. the early detection and screening of the population that the new president wants to strengthen is certainly a commendable activity. however, if we don't start addressing the causes that lie in the substances we ingest in our food and water, little will change and we will simply be pouring resources that could help doctors, patient organizations, patients, into the throats of pharmaceutical companies and insurance companies. i see a greater potential for strengthening the work with patients and their families, because it's not just cancer patients who suffer, but also their environment, family and friends. i hope, therefore, that not only all of us here, but above all the european commission, will finally take action.
madam president, being given a diagnosis of cancer is a truly life—changing event. it creates a climate of fear and uncertainty. i know that as a medical doctor and because my father, richard, died of prostate cancer. however, thankfully due to earlier diagnosis, prompt intervention, dedicated specialists and advances in pharmaceutical medicines, the prognosis for many has now improved. however, opportunists have purposely created a climate of fear in the united kingdom. patients are now being told that if britain leaves without a deal, then there will be a significant shortage of cancer medicines, which will profoundly affect their clinical outcomes. so it is vital that we work together to reassure people that this is not the case. in my capacity as a medical doctor, i have spoken to people in the pharmaceutical industry. it is now very clear there has been a huge amount of no—deal planning and workarounds are now in place, such as batch testing and mutual recognition of standards. three separate pharmaceutical companies based in france have also told me that the uk remains an extremely important trading partner and they will ensure that trade continues as today. it is worth remembering we import 37 million packs of medicine a month from the eu, and we export 45 million packs, so trade is reciprocal. i want to close by saying i hope everyone here in the european parliament will join me in supporting everyone touched by cancer, ensuring that we cooperate. i’m sure that you will also agree with me that playing political games with people’s lives is never acceptable.
madam president, what makes cancer so dangerous is that it is such a complex disease. tumours that come under the same umbrella are often quite different. there are many different kinds of breast cancer, but they’re still called breast cancer. hodgkin’s lymphoma attacks young lives, not old, and it is 95% curable, which is wonderful. but other cancers are still an automatic death sentence. in addition, genetic instability means that tumours go through an evolutionary process which means they can quickly become resistant to treatments that were working. but we know that one in three cancers might be curable, so we need to do more. advancements in genomic research are allowing research on tumour mutations to move quickly. further studies in epigenetics are allowing researchers to look deeper, beyond dna, and to combine the medical data with critical information about the kind of external and environmental factors that have been mentioned here today. we must seize the opportunities created by these advancements in biomedicine, bioinformatics, big data and artificial intelligence to help us in this fight. so i call on ursula van der leyen to make the fight against cancer an absolute priority of the next commission, in scientific research as well as in the medical area.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i fully agree with the very critical assessment of the council's proposal by commissioner oettinger and i fully agree with the criticism of your proposal by all the political groups. you must see that there is a unanimous vote in this parliament against the council's proposal, which is a proposal that is a mourning for european ambitions. you said you didn't want to talk about numbers. i can understand that, but i want to talk to you about figures, because your proposal is nothing but unjustified cuts and cuts, incredible cuts for research, minus 413 million, cuts against young people, minus 11.67 million for the youth employment initiative, cuts also for the asylum and migration fund, when it is necessary today to meet the challenge of the integration of refugees, and then also cuts on the cosme programme, 36.5 million which will translate into less aid for businesses. so i say to you that with this budget, it is you who are sacrificing europe and with this budget, there will be less europe in 2020, and that is very sad.
madam president, 17.4 million brits who voted to leave the european union in 2016 will be bewildered and angry to find out that they’re on the hook for billions of pounds towards the eu’s 2020 budget. we heard the word ‘continuity’ earlier. the british people did not vote for continuity, they voted for independence, and that is why the brexit party will now fight for a clean break from the european union. as a house of lords report has previously stated in my country, if agreement is not reached, all eu law, including provisions concerning ongoing financial contributions and machinery for adjudication, will cease to apply, and the uk would be subject to no enforceable obligation to make any financial contribution at all. in other words, no-deal means no uk money for the european union. sounds pretty good to me. it is no wonder, therefore, you’re so desperately trying to cling on to theresa may’s surrender treaty, a treaty that has been rejected repeatedly in my country. and that is why the brexit party is putting boris johnson, our prime minister, on notice that he must not simply try to rebrand and resell that treaty, because we don’t want it, and the brexit party will fight him every step of the way. on behalf of the people of the east of england and essex where i live, let me tell you what we think about the prospect of handing over gbp 30 billion plus through another european treaty: no thanks, no deal, you can do one.
madam president, this budget proposal is marked by an overall lack of resources, by wrong priorities, by a lack of resources in the social and environmental fields, in cohesion, by the increase in expenditure associated with a drift towards intervention in the external sphere, a militaristic, security drift. we are not, however, refraining from intervening, as far as we can, with concrete proposals that can improve the proposal we have now. we have tabled more than 80 amendments to the commission proposal with clear objectives: to promote public investment, to support the productive and strategic sectors, public services, to promote employment with rights, to combat poverty and inequalities, to promote women's rights, to protect the environment and biodiversity, to make full use of the potential of each country and each region. some of these amendments have been adopted in the specialised committees, which we very much appreciate. we shall now endeavour to ensure that these proposals are included in the final budget to be adopted by parliament. it will not erase its most negative aspects, but it will be important and that is why we ask for your support.
madam president, when i look at the eu budget i see political flaws and the usual accounting chicanery. the political flaws are once again seen in the anti-democratic agenda and the creation of nebulous new departments that purport to promote the european way of life. the historic accounting flaws and wasteful spending are legendary, but my personal favourite is the committee of the regions, which spent eur 725 000 on gifts, trophies and medals, presumably to reward mediocrities like the chair of the committee on fisheries (pech) for destroying the fishing industry. i’m astonished that the eu arrogantly assumes the uk will still be contributing eur 18 billion to the eu budget next year, but how on earth are you going to pay for budget increases when we leave? it cannot be out of assumed growth because a recession is now widely expected, and it cannot be from fiscal stimulus because such supply-side pro-growth policies are denied to euro area economies. the purpose of the stability and growth pact is not to allow economic stimulus. it is there purely for economic patronage so the commission can grant leniency to countries which they see as eu favourites, which is why france can act with impunity and italy cannot. mario draghi was right in his plea for fiscal stimulus, but it’s all in vain when the euro area remains in the suffocating straitjacket of the stability and growth pact and locked into the euro, which was designed as an instrument of convergence but, as we saw in the last financial crisis, ruined the lives of greeks, italians and spaniards at the altar of european integration. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, our societies and our communities are facing huge challenges. climate change, social injustice, economic inequality – all require determined political and practical action. today, as a green, i welcome in particular the decision to top up the horizon and erasmus programmes. today’s vote was one small step in the right direction, but we need an even greater commitment to research and development on climate-related activities in the future. i therefore call on member states to commit to funding our future and to follow this parliament’s proposal to increase the funding of the eu’s next research programme, horizon europe. innovation will play a huge role in solving issues such as the climate crisis, although it cannot be our only answer. we must also commit to immediate and decisive climate action in other areas as well. but today, let’s celebrate investing in our future and ensure that we act decisively on climate change.
madam president, the european parliament is very ambitious in its policies and as the rapporteur on the budget for the committee on budgets i know that we will need much more financial resources than we currently have in the budget. climate change is posing challenges that will require an additional three and a half billion euros. at the same time, we have tasks to perform that will lead to the fulfilment of our citizens' expectations and improve their quality of life. the transition to a sustainable economy, the implementation of the european pillar of social rights and the european minimum wage, as well as the fight against climate change, must therefore be complemented by the establishment of a system to adequately finance these ambitious policies. such support systems could be, for example, a digital tax or progressive taxation of large corporations, which we have talked about many times in this room. at the same time, we should seek more effective tools to prevent leakage from the european budget and from the budgets of the member states of the european union through the various shell companies and shell schemes.
i am working on this document in the regi committee, so i will comment on the budget for next year from the perspective of regional development. cohesion policy is the main investment tool in many member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline. the reason for this is many, from the obligation laid down in article 174 of the lisbon treaty that no region, island, mountain or remote area of the union should be left behind, to the fact that every euro invested in cohesion policy returns €2.74 of added value for development and job creation. i regret that the council's proposed budget omits or reduces funding for areas crucial to europe's future, such as climate change, migration, the youth employment initiative, the neighbourhood instrument. this is not a proposal that qualitatively responds to these challenges, nor does it provide a good basis for the new commission, as it largely does not follow the priorities set out in its announced programme.
madam president, i rise in this debate to speak as shadow rapporteur in the committee on foreign affairs and to express my concern on the council’s proposals that foresee a decrease of over eur 1 billion in the commitment appropriations for heading 4, which could result in budget for external actions at the lowest amount of the preceding three years. does the council really believe that, in this current international context where human rights, democracy and the rule of law are facing roll-backs across different continents, this is what we should be doing? is this really responsible: to reduce the eu’s capacity to act, and to abandon people in the greatest need? what really concerns me is that the eu seems to be following in the footsteps of the usa, while china is out there and is offering easy money – with heavy penalties, though, strings attached! i’d really like to see the eu taking responsibility and doing more human rights and more democracy, so i call on the council and the commission to review their proposals and to make sure they put their money where their mouth is.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the 11th budget procedure i have been following and i find it highly institutionalized, ritualised and - if i may say so - deadly boring. we have the same situation again and again on the council side: the far from original explanation for your cuts is careful and realistic financial planning and sufficient margins. if i look at the figures carefully, we are going back to expenditure, adjusted for inflation, with all the consequences that have already been pointed out by the honourable members. i'll take up the idea of colleague autumn. i think it's charming. what would you do if we accepted your proposal? could you, mr minister, explain to your constituents why the finnish presidency of the council is willing to spend more money on digital change, on research, on climate policy, on all areas, including transport infrastructure, and why you are cutting your own draft budget? i don't think you can do it. i would ask you to accept the rapporteur's proposals.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of debate on this report, and that is normal. i would like to start by thanking the commissioner for his clarification. he explained very well why it is not good to make these cuts. we know as well. i'm a shadow rapporteur at tran, the transport and tourism commission, and i see that they're cutting off almost everything: from research, from connectivity, from absolutely everything. mr minister, i have a question: in your speech you said that the budget is an important instrument for the policies of the european union. how will the budget you are presenting, with cuts in all chapters, support the policies of the european union? because we are talking about cohesion, we are talking about start-ups, we are talking about research, we are talking about health, we are talking about the safety of citizens. this is what the citizens want: prosperity, rising living standards and security. you're contradicting yourself. you say the budget should go in the direction of european policies and, by what you cut, it goes in the opposite direction.
i have to say, madam president, 'gezard is cool' was not only the slogan of one of the most successful and controversial advertising campaigns in germany, but it seems to be the council's attitude when it comes to next year's budget. it's like always: less money, you cut. less money for culture, less money for civic engagement, even the most famous and successful programme, erasmus+, is being cut. the importance of culture and education for social cohesion within the union and for the personal development of each individual is repeatedly emphasised. but investing in it is clearly not something you dream of. the reductions proposed by the council in these areas are simply unacceptable. creative europe, a europe for citizens, has always suffered from chronic underfunding. the committee on culture and education is clear: we need more money! we are asking for 10% more for erasmus+, creative europe and the europe of citizens. we must invest more, not less, in youth, culture and education. i think we owe it to our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate on the 2020 budget is an opportunity to stress the need for measures to support employment. that is why, as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i have tabled amendments with my colleagues from the s&d group to reinforce this aspect in the text, in particular the youth employment initiative, which is a key instrument in this challenge. youth unemployment remains too high in many member states and that is why we are calling for an additional eur 600 million to be allocated to this initiative. we also expressed the need to align our employment policies more closely with the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights by creating synergies to reduce inequalities and foster social dialogue, to improve productivity and worker conditions, including by increasing funding for lifelong learning and vocational training. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
madam president, two of the priorities for the 2020 budget on this side of the house are the climate emergency and the future of europe’s young people. i firmly believe that it’s not politicians, but scientists and engineers who will enable the shift to a low—carbon economy. if they are to deliver these advances, it is essential that we give them the tools to do the job. our investments in science and research are our tools and we should be sharpening them through this budget. and at a time when the changes to the economy affect young people acutely, it is folly to reduce our programmes to mitigate youth unemployment. these structural problems remain a serious issue in many parts of the union. yet the council’s approach thus far is woefully incoherent: indiscriminate flat-rate reductions that fly in the face of its own priorities. the union budget represents a small fraction of public spending overall, but the big numbers it adds up to enable europe to respond to the big challenges, and that’s not limited by any border.
madam president, this morning at the european court of human rights, the council of europe's commissioner for human rights testified in her findings on turkey: systematic failure to provide independent and impartial justice, which has now become a tool of the ruling erdogan regime. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. the same regime, to which the council of europe's commissioner for human rights refers, is thus concealing its interventions in the member states of the european union under the guise of religious freedom, as in bulgaria, but also by the systematic islamization of occupied northern cyprus. we are financing this scheme with many millions from the budget of the european union. and i am sure that if the european citizens had the opportunity to express their views, they would refuse this funding with absolute certainty.
madam chair, in pre-recession times, it is important to be very careful with public spending and use taxpayers' money to prepare for the period of crisis that is inevitably ahead of us, as evidenced by the slowdown in economic growth across the continent. the pouring in, the allocation of 21% of the total proposed 2020 budget to combat climate change, which will predominantly finance expensive public policies, is an indication that we have learned nothing from the previous crisis that devastated europe and created a huge divide between the north and the south of the continent. we need to save the planet, that's undeniable, but first and foremost by partnering with the private sector and creating a positive climate for entrepreneurship and innovation, instead of expensive publicly funded programs with questionable impacts.
madam president, this continent has a great debt of gratitude to the united states and nato in particular, and i’ve heard a lot about the budget allocations for 2020 and, indeed, 2021 to 2027. within those budget allocations, there is a figure of eur 21 billion to create a new 10 000-strong border force for the european union. i find this unfathomable at a time when virtually every country in the european union – with the notable exceptions of the united kingdom, greece, and perhaps one or two others – is not meeting their nato budget commitments. something has to be done within this institution to make sure that we uphold our nato contributions ahead of creating an independent fighting force in the european union, which is, frankly, something we should not be doing anyway.
madam president! "false history is the master of false politics" is a famous saying of a prominent polish historian of the 19th century. it can also be applied to the history of world war ii. the way it was and is presented had political consequences (as we also see in this debate) and vice versa - political motives led to a distorted picture of the past. why did the hitler-stalin pact take so long to be forgotten? is it because they don't want to admit that there would have been no world war ii if it hadn't been for the alliance of these two hideous, bloody regimes? to not have to explain the later alliance of the western allies with stalin despite the knowledge of crimes such as the katyn crime, to maintain the continuing myth of the red army as the liberators of europe, not to explain yalta, etc. the fact that we're starting to talk about this pact today gives us hope that we might learn the right lessons from history.
madam president, historical remembrance matters. it is too important therefore to be manipulated for political ends. this motion and the amendments seem less concerned with genuine commemoration, and more with a cynical abuse of the second world war to fight factional battles and push contemporary agendas. we’ve got the epp shamefully using remembrance to push an eu expansionist agenda today. we’ve got renew promoting national educational curricula to propagandise eu federalism to young people in the here and now. then there’s the s&d piggy backing on a historic fight for freedom against authoritarianism, to propose illiberal, authoritarian and censorious regulations to silence opponents and delegitimise them with the label ‘extremist’. what a gross insult to the memories of real anti-fascists, the french and jewish resistance, the heroes of the warsaw ghetto, the leftists who fought franco in spain, and the soldiers on the russian front and on d-day. i salute my fellow europeans for that historic fight and note that cross-european acts of bravery are proof that cross-national solidarity existed before and is not dependent on institutionalised eu unity. meanwhile, the eu’s revisionist history seems highly selective in what is remembered. lest we forget, world war ii was partly a fight against expansionist empire building trampling over national borders. let’s remember it was a world war in which millions of non-europeans fought for freedom and democracy and went on to fight for their own self-determination and national sovereignty – two enlightenment principles that this parliament seems to want us to forget, and contemptuously write out of history. while i’m forced to be here, not on my watch, i’ll remind you every time, national sovereignty it is. (applause)
madam president, the commissioner asked the question: how do you remember and honour the past, a past filled with war and conflict and borders? well, in my opinion as a human-rights lawyer for over 25 years, i would suggest that we respect human rights and human dignity. how do we do that? we respect the rule of law, we respect human life, we respect freedom of association and speech, and we respect living a life in dignity, for older people, for children, for individuals in all their diversity, not excluding anyone. it means enabling human dignity through economic prosperity and a freedom to live the way we wish to. how do we do this? it is enshrined in our human rights instruments that came on line after the second world war: the european convention on human rights, the un charter, all of the international conventions that we have at the moment, and our european charter of human rights. and, of course, finally, for britain to stay in the eu.
madam president, it was my honour to come to this parliament after 16 years as an advocate in criminal law, including some time as a crown prosecutor in the uk. and what i saw in my work was that money laundering is to crime what the circulation of blood is to our bodies. money can be obtained in a fraud, then reinvested, say, in a drugs factory, reinvested in human trafficking, and then maybe reinvested in weapons – and someone loses their life. each time, it can move between different countries. or it can be used to buy luxury cars, luxury houses, private education, anything of high value – lifestyles which motivate more crime. in my country, the police estimate money laundering at gbp 100 billion every year and we have 25 different organisations meant to have some responsibility in addressing it. it is too divided. it’s outrageous and unacceptable that some member states have not implemented this legislation, though we also need partnership that goes beyond the european union. money laundering can go into africa, into america, into asia, and we need a framework for partnerships that trace money and trace the criminals. we need to change a culture where some law-enforcement officers, be they police or prosecutors or something else, think that money laundering is second-division crime and not important. brexit, of course, puts my country at much greater risk. i hope very much the new commission will attack this issue with vigour.
for the ecr group. mr president, i have been a member of the eu-turkey association committee for 15 years since 2004, but this year i did not join the committee for the first time, simply because i feel that the eu membership talks with turkey have reached a dead end. and i say this as someone who has traditionally supported turkey, but i had to change my mind. one of the turning points was the situation after the suppression of the failed coup, when there was a great purge in the military, in the judiciary, in the state administration, in the academic sphere and in the media. and the repression has really reached an unprecedented level and now we are seeing something similar in the attack of the ruling regime or the ruling party on democratically elected politicians and i think we have to say that it is really unacceptable. and i feel that it would be appropriate to be fair, to stop playing hide and seek with turkey and to say that under these conditions, under this situation, we simply cannot consider turkey's membership of the european union and say it fully.
mr president, thank you to the 452 321 east midlands voters who put their faith in the brexit party. today’s so-called debate regards the state of democracy in the kurdish areas in the south and east of turkey. understandably, it is of concern to us all to see democracy called into question in our neighbour. it is surely bizarre then that the eu has still not ruled out turkish accession to its supposedly democratic union. of course, the real hypocrisy is calling for free and fair democracy in non-eu countries such as turkey, whilst trying to undermine voters’ wishes in their own member states. just yesterday, british meps from less successful parties were calling for a further delay to brexit ‘to sort it out’. they mean to undo the will of the british people. it is sad when members of this aspirational federation preach one thing to turkey, and simultaneously betray their own members’ democratic mandate.
mr president, the emergency resolution on the situation in turkey which we are discussing is motivated by the new and serious attacks on democracy committed by the erdogan regime. the arbitrary dismissal of the municipal authorities of the three major cities of kurdistan, for the sole reason of the political orientation of those who were chosen by the voters, is deeply shocking. of course, we have to react forcefully. our resolution will strengthen the hopes of those in turkey who are fighting for democracy. but our parliament must also be aware that these events have a well-defined political context, that of the struggle of the kurdish people for recognition of their historic rights. the turkish government's shift towards increasingly worrying undemocratic deviations is linked to the refusal of the turkish state to engage in dialogue on the institutional future of kurdistan, which aspires to genuine political autonomy. this dialogue is essential if we are to build a sustainable democracy in turkey tomorrow. europe can and must contribute to its establishment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must not ignore the purge of turkish prime minister erdoğan, which this time involves the democratically elected mayors of the three most important kurdish cities, with large majorities. these mayors, summarily accused of having links with the armed separatist groups of the pkk, were removed and replaced by governors who were well-liked by the central government. i was mayor myself and i know the bond of trust that exists between the people. i am therefore outraged that, once again, erdoğan thinks he can trample on the popular will with impunity. the european union, through the president of the commission and the high representative for foreign affairs, must respond with concrete actions to a leader who never fails to threaten the west, repress the fundamental freedoms of the people and fuel the worst of islamic radicalism. the procedure for turkey's accession to the european union, in view of the total lack of progress in the negotiations and the still open question of northern cyprus, must not only be abolished but, in my humble opinion, and if we are to be consistent with the principles of democracy and freedom on which our europe is founded, it must be declared concluded and rejected.
mr president, the replacement of the three democratically elected mayors does not violate the will of the citizens of the three cities of turkey. it violates democracy itself. turkey, especially after the coup of 2016, is drifting towards a peculiar authoritarianism, which is not in line with the principles and values of the european union. turkey does not respect the principles of the rule of law and democracy. he doesn't respect good neighborly relations. it does not respect the sovereign rights of its neighbours, such as the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and greece, which have been flagrantly violated all this time. the european union must take concrete action. europe wants a democratic turkey in europe. but he does not want the behaviour of a country which threatens europe, which does not respect europe. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in turkey, and we are therefore calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in turkey is brought under control.
mr president, while we debate this worrying situation i would like to highlight eu hypocrisy on the question of democracy. municipal elections took place across turkey earlier this year, which led to the opposition party winning in istanbul. however, at an akp party meeting mr erdogan said re-running the vote was the best step for turkey to solve its problems within a framework of democracy and law. most of us were outraged on this, rightly so. in fact, our very own guy verhofstadt said: ‘this is an outrageous decision that highlights turkey is drifting towards dictatorship, and that under such leadership accession talks are impossible.’ so whilst, on the one hand, the eu’s lead brexit coordinator says a country cannot join the eu for overturning an election, on the other hand, he gives his support to the lib dems via attending their party conference to overturn a democratic election in the uk.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, my constituent, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, a dual eu—iranian national, has been unlawfully imprisoned for more than 1 200 days. having initially been refused access to a trial for months, she then faced one by a kangaroo court that was neither free nor fair. in prison nazanin has often been deprived of proper medical assistance. she is no longer allowed international phone calls and can only see her five-year-old daughter, gabriella, once a month. this treatment is tantamount to state hostage-taking. nazanin has previously gone on hunger strikes and has warned she may do so again if she continues to be deprived of her fundamental human rights. her husband, richard, has recently pointed out that the dominance of brexit means her case has fallen off the uk government’s agenda. as foreign secretary, boris johnson also contributed to making her situation worse and has failed to meet with richard since becoming prime minister. in circumstances such as these, the eu must make its voice heard. nazanin is not alone. other eu dual nationals suffer from violations of their human rights in iranian prisons and are denied free and fair trials. colleagues, it is our duty to stand up for their protection at home and abroad. please support this urgency.
mr president, i’d like to first say i stand with those courageous women peacefully protesting for their rights in iran. but as iran grows bolder in its provocations, it appears the eu’s deal with iran is failing in its objectives. even its most important signatory, the united states, has pulled out. british citizens are the subject of kidnapping, solitary confinement and barbarity. our citizens have become pawns in this geopolitical game and yet the eu remains the biggest global champion of the iran nuclear deal with cynical commercial undertones. iran benefits from eu investment while it continues to prop up terrorist groups in the region. and while the eu rightly speaks about the human rights atrocities, what does speaking do? it is sanctions, not words, that are needed or iran will be emboldened further. but the names of just some of those languishing in iranian prison cells need to be spoken. our citizens who live in fear and isolation right now, real people like jolie king and mark firkin, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, kylie moore-gilbert, anoosheh ashoori and morad tahbaz. it’s time to act now.
mr president, once again iran is occupying and playing the leading role in a debate which always has the same common denominator: the violation of human rights. journalists, human rights defenders, minorities, people with disabilities, women, activists, people with dual nationality, all of them suffer harassment, unfair trials, torture, arbitrary arrests, and all of this simply for doing their job and for defending human rights. they cannot do this without threats and without harassment and intimidation. there are many cases of such torture and of people who have suffered. i would like to focus on the case of the blue girl in sahar jodayarí, that girl in blue, twenty-nine years old, whose crime was being a woman. a football enthusiast, she wore blue, the colour of her team, esteghlal, and dressed as a man to go to the stadium to watch her favourite team. but the rulers of his country ban and do not allow women to go to the stadiums - the only country in the world. she blew herself up in the court in tehran, knowing she would be imprisoned. her only crime - as i said - is being a woman in a country where men determine women's lives and deprive them of their basic human rights. heartbreaking is the tragic death, as heartbreaking is the iranian authorities' terrible disregard for women's rights. since the beginning of the revolution, more than 120,000 people have been executed. reporters without borders says iran is the world's largest jail for women journalists. we need a silent response to such oppression and that is why commissioner thyssen, who has a special sensitivity, will help us to cry out for peace, for help. sahar's death can in no case be in vain. iranian women are brave, they are many and they are determined to fight for their rights. we can't leave them alone. they are, in fact, the true islamic revolution. and europe must show its commitment to peace and stand by it.
mr president, discrimination against women in iran is a daily reality. when a woman, and i am thinking particularly of sahar khodayari, chooses to burn herself rather than be tried by a revolutionary court for daring to set foot in a football stadium, we understand how women are deprived of the most basic of their basic rights. a society which does not guarantee the rights of half its population cannot grow, cannot claim to be developing. unfortunately, iran is not unique and we could list all the countries that violate women's rights. the list would be long and i would need more than a minute to cite them. but iran is a partner of the union. the union defended and initiated the nuclear agreement with iran. it may seem incongruous to some to talk about women's rights when we talk about a nuclear deal. the union must nevertheless use all the instruments at its disposal to combat the greatest injustice in the world, namely the deprivation of half of humanity of its most basic rights, namely the right of women.
mr president, the state of human rights in the islamic republic of iran has often been criticised. freedom of speech and expression is severely restricted, and it is no secret that the iranian authorities have been engaging in a severe clampdown on journalists and advocates of human rights. this imprisonment and the level of unfair trials we see are particularly predominant amongst the ethnic minority groups in iran, including the ahvaz arabs, the kurds and the baloch populations, and these groups form a substantial part of the population. now nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe is a dual eu-iranian national. she is a british citizen. she has been unlawfully imprisoned in iran, having been refused a trial or access to any legal assistance for months. she was then found guilty of espionage after a very, very short and unfair trial. i met her husband, richard ratcliffe, recently when we shared a platform in geneva. he struck me as a good man of deep integrity, who is courageously leading a campaign to try to free his wife. in the more geopolitical sense, in 2018 the us withdrew its support for the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) and imposed sanctions, whereas the european union has maintained its support for the agreement. has not this been a clear sign to iran that the eu can be a potential friend? i urge iran to immediately release all those named in this resolution. i also want to urge iran to rethink its policies and approach to human rights, and particularly freedom of speech and expression. in this way, we can create the foundation for a normalisation of relations between iran and the eu.
mr president, every day nazanin zaghari—ratcliffe, aras amiri and other uk citizens languish in iranian jails is a tragedy for them and their families. the eu and our parliament is complicit in this tragedy: our hands are stained. the eu promised iran that it would get round american sanctions. fourteen months on, the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex) is still an empty promise. eu sanctions led to uk marines in gibraltar impounding an iranian oil tanker, only for the eu to demand it be freed to carry on its sanction—busting voyage to syria. when the uk asked the eu for support to protect shipping in the straits of hormuz it refused. the eu’s desperation to have the foreign policy trappings of a national state is like watching pinocchio wanting to be a real boy. it’s too easily led, it’s full of deceit and it has no conscience. can you imagine the disaster if it had its own army? and what about this parliament. i’m a member of the parliament’s delegation for relations with iran. i wrote to parliament in july asking for the iranian delegation to meet urgently. i had no response. i tried again: zero response. seventy days have passed in this session and still the parliament’s delegation for relations with iran has not met: 70 days rotting in jail for nazanin, aras and many more. it’s a tragedy. our hands are stained.
mr president, women’s lives are under threat in many different countries, we know this, but in iran we’ve had the iranian revolutionary courts in recent months substantially ratchet up their punishments for even modest peaceful acts of protest by women, human rights defenders in particular. for what? for being a woman, for not wearing a hijab, or headscarf, watching a football match – or trying to – at a stadium, handing-out flowers on international women’s day. the women, many of them with dual nationalities that are eu, are being targeted with dire consequences. for example women journalists on bbc persia are subjected to sexualised slander, women human rights defenders are denied access to legal representation. they are arrested at peaceful labour day marches. there is a long list in this resolution of names, including nazanin, as has been mentioned many times here already, of extreme punishments, of years and years in prisons, lack of medical care and lack of access to legal representatives. now these human rights offences are of the highest order, and we must call it out and we must do something about it. iran must cease and desist and we must make sure that women have their full rights enforced wherever occurrences of human rights offences take place.
mr president, i just wanted to concur with what has been said by many speakers. the situation of women in iran is unacceptable, and particularly from the point of view of the european union, when i was a member of the iranian delegation in the last mandate, we worked very hard to keep the nuclear accord in place, and the european union stuck its neck out in that regard, but that must be reciprocated. as has been said, by particularly allowing women the freedom they deserve, and as one mep said, men in iran should not be telling women what to wear. i also concur with my colleague, clare daly, on the obligations of the united states in relation to iran, and the nuclear accord. it was they who pulled out of it, and that was done despite the fact that there was an agreement done with the previous president, president obama, so that in itself is also a cause for condemnation.
mr president, i’m absolutely staggered by the debate i’ve heard this morning. the greatest ally the european union member states have had in history is the united states of america. when the usa rightly imposed sanctions on iran, the european union actively went about trying to undermine those sanctions by setting up a subsidiary, a special purpose vehicle to step around the sanctions. thankfully that failed. in june this year, the usa asked for support in the straits of hormuz, and eu member states turned it down. you won’t forget that, in july, a british ship was taken by the iranians, something which might not have happened had the eu supported american efforts. and now we have all this virtue-signalling in this inept chamber, and no action taken by the european union to support the greatest ally this country has ever had. and, one more thing, the eu does not put enough money into nato and yet it is putting money into a new european defence force. it’s completely wrong. get your priorities right. get behind the united states of america.
mr president, i’ve met richard ratcliffe, the husband of dual national, nazanin zaghari—ratcliffe, who’s led the three—year campaign for her release from prison in iran, even going on hunger strike earlier this year in solidarity with his wrongfully incarcerated wife. nazanin is alone in a country that refuses to recognise her dual citizenship, forces her into solitary confinement and holds the threat of a second trial and conviction over her head. the appalling conditions she endures are undeniably inhumane and must come to an end. nazanin is a prisoner alongside uk resident aras amiri, who was jailed last year while visiting family in iran, whilst dual british—iranian national, kamil ahmadi – a hugely respected academic and campaigner dedicated to ending fgm – was recently detained in iran on unknown charges. dual nationals, european citizens, must not be forgotten, but neither should they be put in further danger through careless words. and i refer here to the unfortunate and misleading statements made by boris johnson when he was foreign secretary. we deserve better than this.
member of the commission. – mr president, our commitment to support human rights defenders, including women’s rights defenders, is a fundamental part of our human rights policy. unfortunately, in too many countries, including iran, women continue to face threats and abuse because they are human rights defenders or simply because they are women. they receive defamatory comments and slander. they face hatred, harassment, intimidation and incitement to violence, often of a sexual nature, or they face imprisonment for standing up for their basic rights. in this context, i would like to express how deeply saddened i am by the fate of sahar khodayari, who earlier this month set herself on fire after learning that she faced a prison sentence for trying to attend a football match, and who died in the hospital from her wounds. her tragic death is the heart-breaking aftermath of an appalling contempt for women’s rights. no woman should fear imprisonment for attending a sporting event. every year, on 8 may, the international community marks international women’s day. for the european union, this is a time to pay tribute to acts of courage and determination by ordinary women around the world who have played an extraordinary role in the history of their countries and communities. in the joint statement that the eu published on 8 may this year, we stated that we are committed to giving all women and girls equal access to health services, education and economic empowerment and opportunities to shape their own future. we will never stop fighting for true equality for all, inside and outside the european union, to make sure that progress achieved is not undone. our commitment to support human rights defenders, including women’s rights defenders, also applies to our work in iran. in the context of the regular, high-level political dialogue with iran that aims to advance bilateral cooperation in a number of areas of mutual interest, the european union has been consistently raising issues of human rights. we have regularly engaged with the authorities to demand that human rights defenders, including women, must not be subjected to harassment or detention. we have been vocal in this demand, for instance in the case of the 2012 sakharov prize laureate nasrin sotoudeh, who was sentenced to long periods of imprisonment because of her advocacy for fundamental human rights. and we continue to be vocal, including in international fora such as the united nations human rights council. the rights of women and girls are also likely to figure prominently during iran’s upcoming universal periodic review in november. i am acutely aware that the focus of this debate also extends to the situation of eu dual nationals imprisoned in iran. there again i would like to be clear: the practice of detaining and imprisoning individuals, such as the uk iranian citizen nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, solely on account of their nationality is contrary to the international covenant on civil and political rights, which iran has ratified and is bound to uphold. iran’s continued practice of detaining dual nationals clearly breaches the commitment that no one shall be subject to arbitrary arrest or detention. as the european union, we will continue to call for the release of all eu-iranian dual nationals and all iranian human rights defenders. we also call on iran to ensure that no individual is detained arbitrarily, and that detainees are not subject to any form of mistreatment. detainees should also have timely access to a lawyer of their own choosing, and to adequate medical care. honourable members, thank you for this debate. i can tell you that we are encouraged by the attention paid to these issues by the members of the european parliament and we will continue our efforts to work together with you to support human rights defenders across the world. (applause)
i am not going to go into detail. we had a slight delay because the conference of presidents took a little longer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i heard the conference of presidents is over now, and it's just a short walk. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to say to all of you, especially the new members, that we always have the effect, especially amongst those who are in a hurry, that when we take the last vote on a given day, the members, after they have voted, take the ballot paper. i would like to make it clear that if you withdraw your voting card before the vote is closed, you are withdrawing your vote. it will not appear in the minutes even if votes are taken by roll call, which is also important for other procedures. so please leave your voting card, even if you have to leave, in the slot provided for it until the vote is closed. please wait until then to pull the trigger. this is a very important process. the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
- i'm not going to. we're not in a plea. it would be useful if you could formulate the oral amendment. there's no room for more in this format.
- i'm not going to. i already cut you off at the beginning. that was unnecessary at the end. i'll tell you what, if this happens again, i'll call you to order.
- i'm not sure. let's take it one step at a time. first the oral amendment by mr fest, then the related request for a roll-call vote. i would certainly do that. but first the question is: are there any objections to the oral amendment? that does not seem to be the case. i shall then put this oral amendment to the vote. (protests in the chamber) ladies and gentlemen, we are a very young parliament. we have the opportunity to table oral amendments. the rules of procedure do not provide for a debate on these oral amendments, or even for any statements, but only for the president to ask whether there are any objections to the date of the amendment. and if 40 members rise, the oral amendment cannot be put to the vote. if 40 members do not rise, the matter will be put to the vote without further discussion. mr fest, i want to be fair: do you agree that i should ask again who has objections to the oral amendment, because it is obvious that the members are not yet familiar with the procedures? (mr fest expresses his disapproval) mr fest thinks - as i can understand - that it is not fair to ask twice. that is why i am now voting on the motion by roll call. i have agreed to the roll-call vote and we shall do so. the honourable member has tabled an oral amendment and has asked for a roll-call vote. i'll let them in.
mr president, i’m a bit surprised because normally a roll call vote has to be asked for a few days in advance. why can you request a roll call vote during an oral amendment and why do you accept this?
mr kovachev, i have to ask you a question. i have studied the rules of procedure very closely over the last three years and i must confess that i do not know everything by heart. but it is the nature of things that i cannot ask for a roll-call vote four days in advance if i am putting forward an oral amendment on the day in question. i therefore believe that it is a spontaneous and correct decision on my part to say that if there are no objections to the oral amendment and if there is a rollcall vote, then we will deal with it in the same way. i've decided that's what i'm gonna do, and that's what we're gonna do. (the oral amendment was not adopted. ) is there any wording that has not been dealt with by the vote? that's not the case. before the vote on amendment no 1:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall now make an oral amendment to the s&d group's amendment and read it to you in english. the s&d group's motion for a resolution includes the following words, and i quote: and to effectively ban neofascist and neonazi groups and any other foundation or association that exalts or glorifies nazism and fascism. i propose the addition of or any other form of totalitarianism. and i would ask you to insert in its place: 'or any other form of totalitarianism'.
i am not going to go into detail. before we come to the resolution as a whole, i should like to comment briefly on the comments made by mrs melchior on the subject of speed. we try to do things as efficiently as possible, as quickly as possible. we always notice that at the beginning of the election period colleagues are more likely to complain that things are going too fast, and at the end of the election period colleagues are more likely to complain that things are going too slow. i can assure you that i've already slowed down a bit from my usual pace today. and i'm sure you'll find a way to get along with all the other vice presidents and me in the end. we're gonna get through this. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, i am glad that the european parliament has clearly opposed the patentability of new species of plants and animals produced by biological means, that is to say by conventional breeding. we have thus sent a clear signal to the council and the commission to seek clarification of this legal complication. it is important to influence the european patent office to restore legal certainty and interest to breeders, farmers and the public. otherwise, it would prevent the free use of biological materials for further research and breeding. it is in no one's interest that otherwise freely available biological resources should be subject to the same strict industrial patent protection as other industries. i therefore supported the resolution and call on the other member states to actively help resolve the current legal uncertainty.
mr. speaker, thank you for giving the floor and bringing order to this house. i want to start by clarifying my explanation on this point. i supported it because i think that the patentability of biological plants or animals that are the result of a certain breeding is really beyond the pale. the public interest clearly indicates that such patentability should not be permissible. this parliament has always been committed to the protection of intellectual property. the protection of copyright, other rights that are related to copyright, is our own. on the other hand, i think there should be clear limits and the public interest in the availability of biological resources is clear. that is why i supported this motion for a resolution, both as a clear instruction to the european patent office and as a means of strengthening legal certainty.
mr president, the issue of patenting living organisms actually came as an entire shock to me. ok, my prior naivety. i’m gobsmacked that resources and seeds that have been developed or passed on as traditional or public knowledge can be turned into knowledge owned by large corporations. it’s vital that that knowledge is available to small farmers and plant breeders. the patenting of natural plant developments, in addition to allowing corporations to own knowledge, making it inaccessible to farmers, often conflicts with indigenous knowledge and the rights of indigenous people, the sustainability of local ecosystems and even the ability of nations to provide food security and to protect the global environment. large transnational corporations effectively steal the knowledge of natural plants used for generations by local people without their knowledge and without their consent. the farmers find the only way to get it is to buy it.
mr president, the advances in plant breeding and plant technology are the central fact of this generation. we’re becoming better and better at getting more yield out of smaller territory. the result of this is not only that we are able to feed the world in a way that a generation ago would have seemed unimaginable, it is not only that we have disproved all of the dire predictions of mass starvation that were habitually being made in the ‘70s and ‘80s, it is that we are allowing nature to pour back in, we’re allowing for a huge revival of reforestation and of previously endangered species as the territory needed to sustain our population dwindles. the european union should be at the forefront of this technology, but as so often a combination of luddite politicians and vested interests mean that we’re cutting ourselves off, particularly from advances in genetic modification. britain, i hope, will be outside the eu at the forefront of this technology, but i hope our neighbours will rush to follow us in due course.
mr president, this partial resolution does not in any way honour the memory of the victims of totalitarianism. firstly, it is clear that the memory of the last world war is now being diverted for political purposes, since the european union cannot base its legitimacy on any popular support. what is more appropriate, in fact, when, from election to election, the rejection of the peoples is affirmed, than to cling to the pink legend of a european union as a guarantee of peace on the continent. in reality, europeans owe their liberation not to a clique of brussels officials but to the united states and, as general de gaulle said, to eternal russia. the denial of history that is sweating through every line of this text will never erase the blood of the some 20 million russians who sacrificed themselves so that europe could live. the resolution thus refers to the same rewriting of history which it purports to denounce as being typical of dictatorial regimes, a fact which raises questions about the nature of this union whose authoritarian drift is becoming increasingly evident.
colleagues, i supported the resolution in memory of the victims of totalitarian regimes because i believe in historical memory. along with other undemocratic regimes that have been banned from history, erased from history, the crimes of the bolshevik regime must be remembered. eastern europe was under bolshevik boot and terror for nearly half a century. i give an example of the criminal mad idea to divide the bulgarian nation and to create an artificial macedonian one on bulgarian territory by means of terror. therefore, these crimes must be condemned and their symbols, such as the sickle, the hammer and the pentagram, must also be banned as symbols of a totalitarian and undemocratic regime.
mr president, i voted against this resolution not because i don’t care about historical remembrance, but i care too much about historical facts and memory to allow them to be turned into a revisionist political football to push the eu’s contemporary agenda. this motion treats europe and european history with disdain by flattening european history into the eu’s history. it hijacks the brave fight against fascism and the horrors of the holocaust – by the way, you managed to forget the jews in this motion – to push simplistic propaganda points about eu federalism and expansionism. european history is not eu history. the renaissance, the enlightenment, european arts and philosophy were the home and the clarion call of free speech, self—determination, nation states, national sovereignty and democracy. those values this parliament chooses to forget. i won’t. that’s why i oppose this motion, which was nothing more than political propaganda.
mr president, i was pleased to support this motion to remember the victims of totalitarianism. for many of us this is very personal. my wife’s grandfather was an auschwitz survivor and it chills me to the bone that things could easily have been very different, and my wife and my daughter would not exist. my own grandfathers were a paratrooper who fought in the war and a railwayman who had to keep trains at the docks moving while bombs fell from the sky. we europeans are united by history, by memory and resolve to make a better future. but i voted for the motion in spite of one reservation, which was that the motion speaks only of brutality by europeans against other europeans on the continent of europe. the weight of our history is that europeans have committed atrocities elsewhere too. there are europeans today whose ancestors come from asia, africa and the americas, and we must be clear that all atrocities are to be remembered. all our ancestors matter. our europe is part of the globe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, so goes the story: a good-willed british prime minister is honestly seeking a balanced solution to the brexit conundrum. but he is confronted with a hostile and antagonistic, inflexible european union, conspiring with traitors back home, concentrated in the british parliament and the judiciary, whose sole aim would be to frustrate the will of the people and surrender to the enemy. this is the story that prime minister johnson wants to tell. the reality is that prime minister johnson does not want a deal. listen, if we were to sign the british proposals, we would commit – forever – to keeping a 500 km stretch of eu external border, with no controls – forever – without any firm guarantee that goods crossing that border would meet eu regulatory standards – notably, safety and security standards – and with no guarantee that customs tariffs would be paid. that is the kind of blank cheque that prime minister johnson wants us to sign. no jurisdiction in the world would ever accept this, especially from a neighbour whose stated intention, as has been repeatedly said, is to undercut the european union’s social and environmental taxation standards. no one would accept this. but you understand: these proposals are not there to be accepted. they are meant to lead the country to a no—deal brexit for which the eu27 could be blamed. it’s not hard to read into prime minister johnson’s game. and it now depends on all responsible women and men within the british parliament to prevent this from happening and to muster their collective strength to put the interests of the country front and centre. now, dear friends, i will just say one thing. we are all members of parliament here and we are proud of this. i listened to prime minister johnson’s speech at the tory party conference the other day. a few days after having illegally attempted to close down his parliament, that prime minister was openly mocking, humiliating and deriding parliament – the parliament from which his own legitimacy derives. dear friends, when chiefs of the executive – in any country – trample like this on parliaments, what is at stake is democracy.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr juncker, mr barnier, when it comes to brexit, you say both no to boris johnson's proposal and no to a no-deal exit. you reject the british government's proposal, which is clearly a balanced position in that it allows both britain's exit from the european union and the customs union, which is the wish expressed democratically by the british people more than three years ago, and that it respects the good friday agreements. you present the backstop negotiated between you and theresa may (but against the advice of the british) as a 'safety net'. but you know very well that he is much more than that. in reality, it is about keeping britain in all the european union's arrangements, with the same financial contribution, and this situation could last as long as the thorny irish border problem is not resolved. you know very well that the position you are taking is unacceptable to the british people, unacceptable to the majority in the house of commons, and that it leads to a situation of total blockage for which you will be responsible. as regards the multiannual financial framework, which will be at the heart of the next council's discussions, there are two pitfalls to which we will be very attentive. the first is the inflation of expenditure, the increase in the budget, ever-larger expenditure by the european union, which is also increasingly distant from the concerns of the citizens and in particular from what they have expressed at the last european elections. the other obstacle is, of course, the idea of own resources: a european tax system which would not replace national tax systems but would add to them, making the tax burden on our states ever greater. and finally, i have seen mr macron among the heads of state, mr timmermans among the european commissioners, recently speaking out to make the european union's structural funds conditional on respect for the so-called rule of law, obviously targeting poland, hungary and a number of other countries. they should remember that in the last european elections, the law and justice party in poland and viktor orbán's fidesz in hungary were the parties that had the best results in all countries and all political parties. they are the ones with the greatest democratic legitimacy. this should encourage the european commission to respect them, because the commission will never have the democratic legitimacy of these heads of state or government. while the european union refuses to make financial aid to african countries conditional on the control of migration flows, it would at the same time, within the european union, ban countries and deprive them of financial resources to which they can legitimately claim on the pretext that they would not respect a so-called rule of law which has in reality become a political weapon against them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened very carefully to the speeches of my predecessors, including president juncker and the other representatives. i'd start with a fact. i hope that, important as it is, very little will be said about enlargement and much more about the concrete and real issues that concern us, among which there seem to be some very serious emergencies and urgencies. i have heard political positions, even lessons in style and behaviour from a parliament in which, for example, in the last legislature and in the steering group, which is called upon as the balancing element for a joint parliamentary proposal, there are parliamentary groups which have been deliberately and unjustifiably excluded without any reason, in order to be able to construct positions which are wilfully partisan. so i think that before teaching, we should try to start from this attitude and above all from a fact. the negotiations are difficult, apart from the positions, as mr barnier has specifically explained, but there is certainly one fact which cannot be ignored, namely the need to reach an agreement, because we must continue to have a fundamental relationship with the united kingdom in economic, commercial and relations terms. and that is why it is unacceptable that we can continue to insult someone who may not like us, but is the prime minister of a country. we may not share his position, it will be difficult to reach an agreement, but we must reach an agreement, because the point is that that country has a government which may not be to the liking of certain political groups in this house, but it is a government which, until it is proved otherwise, when new elections are held, is entitled to discuss its positions and deserves the respect of this parliament and its members. as regards the multiannual financial framework, i would like to make it very clear that a great deal of speed is needed and, above all, it would be equally important to try to put in place and schedule solutions which do not have the idea of increasing the tax burden but which can also provide answers to general questions which will affect the future of the new commission. there has been talk here, and there has been a lot of talk in this period, about the battles and the politics of climate. i think it is essential to start not with the extremes of the position, but with the need to change and adapt the production, economic and commercial system of our continent to the needs that are indisputable. finally, i would like to mention the issue of immigration, since it has not been mentioned at all. in the past few days the ministers of the interior in malta have announced a great many things, which i will not dwell on, and a few days later, just yesterday, we found that words, as usual, were not followed by deeds. i hope that the council can begin to address and give precise answers to these questions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we shall be debating this afternoon in this house, at the request of my group, the attack by turkey on syria. i think this parliament will send a clear signal against the unlawful turkish war of aggression against the kurds in northern syria which has just begun. but now let me turn to the other pressing political issue of the moment: brexit. the left group greatly appreciates the council's expressed willingness to agree to an extension should it be asked to do so under article 50. we expect the british government to comply with the british law in force and to make such a request if there is no agreement in the coming days. and we do not expect this for our own sake, we expect it because a crash out, a hard brexit, would have the worst political consequences for all involved and because the political questions that are crucial to us, namely the protection of the peace process in northern ireland and the protection of the social rights of millions of europeans, have not yet been adequately answered. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but, ladies and gentlemen, there are some good things happening in british politics: a near-export hit is about to be released. now, before you torture yourself and let me torture you, i'll tell you what this is about: extinction rebellion. we are seeing their climate protests in berlin, amsterdam, london, paris and many other european cities. i can tell you, in the run-up to the cop25 in santiago de chile, that we on the left here in the european parliament believe that a policy is necessary to combat the climate emergency decisively. our mandate to the commission and the council is to align eu policy, now and in the future, with the un sustainable development goals and the paris agreement on climate change, without any ifs and buts. the council will also be discussing the multiannual financial framework. in short, money must be made available so that it can be spent on meaningful projects. mr juncker, i am now going to put forward a crazy idea, which may seem presumptuous or pretentious: let us close the tax loopholes! the money raised will be used to increase the eu budget and to invest in social and ecological restructuring. we need investment in good jobs, in the necessary digital transformation, in the fight against social inequality, in the fight against the climate emergency, and not in the eu's military build-up. then you can keep your promises in the future.
mr president, let me make this very clear, mr sassoli, you have no right to go and speak with the uk speaker, having conversations that are directly interfering into our domestic politics. it exposes your intentions to intervene at all levels to stop brexit. it is immoral. shame on you. and mr barnier, i note throughout your speech, sir, you kept referring to the ‘british negotiators’ as just ‘british’. we are the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and that will never change. brexit was not a rejection of europe or our wonderful european friends. it was a rejection of the anti—democratic nature of eu institutions and you confirm to us every day it was right to leave. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, i understand that the political situation in the uk is, to say the least, challenging. however, it must be clear that the proposal that came from the united kingdom, long awaited by the eu, that might lead to an orderly brexit, has not met our expectations. we hoped to see a legally operational alternative to the backstop that would deliver on all its objectives. as michel barnier has rightly said, the proposal raises fundamental concerns. here in this house, we will not accept a return to a hard border on the island of ireland. we will not accept distortions to the all—island economy. we will not accept risks to the integrity of the single market and we cannot, either, accept replacing the legally operational backstop with a vision of a solution that might or might not come at the end of the transition period. we regret the lack of transparency at this stage of the negotiations on the british side in a moment when the third brexit deadline is around the corner. the negotiating team has shown an enormous amount of flexibility over the last few years and is prepared to work around the clock to find a deal, so there is still a chance, but a significant movement from our british friends is needed. but i’m not convinced anymore, as many of us here are not, that the uk government wants a deal. let me finish by underlining that this unprecedented political process of brexit continues to have a massive negative impact on citizens’ lives and, in this context, let me say that negotiating the future relationship should not be allowed to start before citizens’ rights are legally guaranteed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about brexit, as it should be, but i would like to remind you that among the items on the agenda for the next european council meeting will also be the issue of climate change, precisely in the context of international agreements, a subject on which i would like to concentrate. after the recent un summit in new york, we are now approaching cop25 in santiago in december. we have successfully welcomed the paris agreement, with the global commitment to keep temperature rise well below the critical threshold of two degrees. however, today, it is worth saying, we are far from there. it is the environment council itself that has said that, with the current commitments and the current trend in greenhouse gas emissions, we will not be able to meet the commitments we made in paris. so on the one hand, we are well aware that the fight against climate change, if it is to be effective, must be coordinated at international level, and, alas, the picture is not very reassuring. the already known attitude of the trump administration was followed by the worrying statements of president bolsonaro on the phenomenon of deforestation in the amazon. on the other hand, we must confirm and strengthen our leadership, the european leadership that has been exercised in recent years to deal with the climate emergency. the data clearly show that economic growth and emission reductions can go hand in hand. this is an important and challenging change that we can and must achieve in a fair, inclusive, sustainable way, and i have to say, also by adjusting our production systems. the decisions which the heads of state intend to take in the coming months will therefore be decisive.
madam president, i want to start by responding to ms de lucy, who was attacking this parliament, saying that we are undemocratic while they are here, elected here and they are not elected in the british parliament. so who is more democratic, do you think? who is more democratic? in your own country, neither in ukip before brexit has one representative in the british parliament and here you have more than, i don’t know, too many representatives. you’re saying that we are not democratic. this is crazy. but that said, i will be less diplomatic than mr michel barnier. i think that the proposal that boris johnson put forward exactly one week ago, was not serious at all. not serious at all because it was, in fact, i call it a virtual proposal. it was not a real proposal. it gives a veto to the dup in a number of issues. it is putting custom facilities, not on the border between northern ireland and the irish republic, but in all the other parts of the island of ireland that we don’t know yet. and finally, the proposal is to downgrade the political declaration and the future relationship by undercutting, in fact by making a sort of singapore at the sea, at the north sea – these 20 behind me like that – , but by in fact destroying the ecological, social and labour standards. i have to tell that to mr richard corbett because he’s a labour representative. i can never understand that today there are 20 or so labour mps thinking to vote together with the government of the uk for such a deal. that’s the contrary of all the things that labour has always defended in the past. i hope that this is not happening. the real reason why this is all happening is very simple. it’s a blame-game. a blame-game against everybody, a blame-game against the union, against ireland, against ms merkel, against the british judiciary system, against labour, against the lib dems, even against mrs may. the only person who has not been blamed is mr johnson himself, apparently, but all the rest are the source of our problems. that is what is happening today. all those who are not playing his game are traitors or a collaborator or have surrendered. well in my opinion, the real traitor is he or she who will risk bringing disaster upon his country, its economy and its citizens by pushing britain out of the european union. that’s, in my opinion, a traitor. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, i would like to ask you why you don’t respect democracy. you claim to respect democracy; you just said you don’t think that the labour party should be allowed to vote with our conservative party. why not? that is their democratic right. and do you remember how you opposed the fact that turkey wanted to throw a new election because you didn’t agree with the first one. yet you want us to throw a second referendum in the uk. mr verhofstadt, you do not believe in democracy, except when it suits you and except when you win, and when you lose – as you did in the european referendum and in the brexit referendum, you just don’t like it, do you. i'm afraid you’ve lost, my friend. goodbye.
blue-card answer. – democracy you can change your mind. and i have a small impression that, in the meanwhile, the majority of the british citizens have changed their minds. (shouts of ‘rubbish’ from certain parts of the chamber)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
sorry colleagues, please listen to the answer and try not to holler. there’s no need for it. mr corbett, i think in fairness i will ask: will you accept a question, mr verhofstadt? you’re in demand from mr corbett. (mr verhofstadt agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8)) ok, go ahead mr corbett: 30 seconds.
blue-card question. – curiously madam president, mr verhofstadt asked me a question during his speech about a small number of labour mps who have written to president tusk, urging a deal and compromise, which they might vote for – not this deal by mr johnson. but another way to stop mr johnson, of course, would be to vote ‘no confidence’ in the house of commons and put jeremy corbyn in number 10. but it’s the liberal democrats who are opposed to that. they say they’ll do anything to stop brexit, but they won’t even put jeremy corbyn in downing street as a temporary government ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i’m sorry, mr corbett, it wasn’t a question. i’m not sure, mr verhofstadt: can you make a question out of a statement?
blue-card answer. – i can make it into a question, but i don’t think that it is in this house that we have to discuss the internal affairs of the labour party and the british parliament. (shouting)
ok, you have succeeded in irritating both sides of the house, mr verhofstadt, so it’s a balance. although i have to say... (inaudible)as i said, indeed, that was my remark: incredibly balanced. so calm down to my right, please. our next speaker for one minute is ms chowns.
madam president, colleagues, let’s focus on common ground, shall we? for the third time this year, my country is looking over the cliff of a no-deal brexit. but the difference is that this time our own uk prime minister is trying to drag us – kicking and screaming, – over that cliff, against the wishes of the large majority of uk citizens, and while trying to place the blame on anybody but himself. but nobody is fooled – not in this house and not back home. we know that the eu has been bending over backwards, actually. (the president interrupted the speaker)
excuse me madam, really, just a second. can i just say to my right honourable friends: could you stop the tittering and giggling and pay respect to the speech, even if you disagree with it? because it’s really very childish, the behaviour at the moment. so madam, will you please continue? and i hope you will get the respect of the house.
we know that the problem is not in the eu, but in number 10 downing street. uk citizens are now raising their voices loud and clear. young people, especially, are calling on us to remember – all of us – that it is their futures that hang in the balance here. we must hear their voices. we are all tired of brexit, but we know brexit will not be over if there’s no deal. it will just be the start of more years of painful negotiations, because we have to have a deal one way or the other, in the end. there is a way forward. we need more time so that when the brexiteers finally agree among themselves on what the deal is, that deal goes back to the people, so that they can have the final say in a people’s vote.
madam president, on 29 april 2017, the european council sent a strong message to the people of ireland. eu heads of state said, ‘in accordance with international law, the entire territory of such a united ireland would not be part of the european union in the event of irish unification. the constitutional set—up in the north of ireland rests on continued consent.’ opinion poll after opinion polls shows that brexit has evaporated the consent for the north to remain connected to britain. the british secretary of state has both the discretion and the duty to call a unity referendum if it appears the majority would likely vote for irish unity. every recent opinion poll shows that there is a majority favouring reunification. tonight in this parliament, professor colin harvey and barrister mark bassett will launch a report at 19.00 on the role of the eu and irish unity, planning and preparing for constitutional change in ireland. this is the sensible solution to the brexit mess, both for europe and for ireland.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can certainly agree that member states should decide their own destiny, but citizens have rights. yesterday, we witnessed, if you know the latest polls in the uk, the position of the citizens and the fact that they have been misled and lied to that nothing happens to them after brexit, that they remain the same rights without obligations. please answer me if you know the latest polls in the uk?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'd like to make three points, three themes, and not specifically brexit-specific. the first proposal for a multiannual financial framework could be phrased as less money for more purposes, with a more difficult set of conditions. i would like to draw the attention of the finnish presidency to the fact that this seems rather nonsensical. the current rush to decide on the terms on which to spend the money would make it impossible to function normally. i ask that you only include objective, enforceable, equally applicable conditions in the system. the second is climate action. i do not think there is a sane european citizen who does not consider the transition to a green economy to be important. the summarisation of national climate action plans will help to decide what realistic targets we can set for reducing emissions. so let's formulate our commitments rationally, not get into a contest over who can guess the unfounded higher number. finally, on enlargement, i say to president juncker, who has sadly left us, that it was a big mistake to say five years ago that there would be no enlargement. we can't be proud of accomplishing something we didn't set out to do. taking away perspective is a threat to stability and prosperity. i hope that a decision will be taken in october to open accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia.
madam president, the proposal made by mr johnson is really not a convincing basis for an agreement. in a way, it looks like mr johnson is trying to sell us a very nice house with a swimming pool – the only problem is that it might not have a swimming pool after all. in fact, the proposal offers regulatory alignment of northern ireland with the single market. but is it a real offer? no. in fact, it depends on unilateral consent given by the assembly of northern ireland before the entry into force and thereafter every four years. then the proposal says that northern ireland will be out of the customs union, but still, we will have an open border based on alternative arrangements. but are those proposals workable? are we, in fact, before a real offer? no. the truth is that those alternative arrangements would still have to be arranged by a joint committee. so the proposal itself is unworkable. it’s not a basis for an agreement. and so, now that we are approaching the council meeting, our resolution adopted here in the european parliament remains valid. if no agreement is reached then we, the european parliament, will support an extension of article 50.
madam president, as a proud british citizen, i am ashamed of our government and the way it is treating both its citizens and democracy. boris johnson has misled the entire country, including our queen. he is not to be trusted by anyone in this parliament or in the commission. the eu has shown great patience already, for which i am grateful, and now british politics is being recast. boris johnson has lost his majority in parliament. the european election results and every opinion poll show a majority for remain. once britain has an extension, a cross-party majority in the house of commons will eject johnson from office. we would ask you for as long an extension as possible so that a new government will be able to hold a new referendum and the uk will find a solution. if boris johnson and the brexit party are so confident the british people have not changed their minds, why are they opposing such a confirmatory vote? the british people do not deserve to be punished for the duplicity of their current prime minister, and i ask you to give us as much time as possible so that we can fix this mess. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i just want to ask my colleague from the united kingdom a question. she was talking about how she thinks that our prime minister can’t be trusted, but in 2017 her party stood on a manifesto of respecting the referendum result. without any recourse to the general public, they have changed that to revoking article 50 and stopping brexit. hypocrisy!
blue-card answer. – in response to that, i would like to say that there is no clarity – and never was – about what type of leave was on the referendum. when we have clarity about whichever type of leave is to be put to a second referendum, the people should have a choice. and in response to the revoke thing, that would be after a general election and therefore after a clear vote to remain. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – if you are so confident in your politics, why don’t you let us have a general election? why do you, the lib dems, refuse and vote against ordinary voters in the country going to the polls? you’ve said you won’t let them do it until you’ve taken something off the table that you decided on their behalf, anti—democratically. you are neither liberal nor democratic, and you say you’re ashamed of the parliament; i’m ashamed that you’re a british mep.
and that, madam, is not a question but it’s a statement. i’ll allow you to answer that because i dare say you’ll have a good answer.
blue-card answer. – i’m very ashamed at some of the things that have been put out recently by leave.eu. on the point of our parliament, i think our parliament is well overdue for a general election, but to remove the uk – to crash out during the course of that election, when there seems to be a majority in the uk for remain – would be an appalling travesty of democracy. so we must secure the extension before we have the election and then bring it on. and we will win far more mps – and always have done – than the brexit party.
madam president, friends, as-salaam-alaikum. as we all already know, boris johnson is a liar, a charlatan, a racist, a national disgrace, an enemy of democracy, a selfish saboteur, a puppet to an unelected bureaucrat. and as the grandma even in his own constituency says, a filthy piece of toe-rag. so to juncker and mr barnier and the other eu leaders: give boris nothing and give the british people everything, especially the young. give them your solidarity, your unwavering support and your sincere promise that you won’t ever abandoned them to the fantasies of the insecure, delusional, tiny british elite that is summed up by boris johnson. and madam chair, i have constantly and frequently criticised the eu on countless occasions, and believe me, that’s not going to change. but our future is here, in this parliament. this is a parliament, this is the european union that turned ash, smoke, hate, horror, death and destruction into an ode to joy. my name is magid magid and i’m proud to be a british, somali, african and a european.
how very thoughtful.
madam president, may i, first of all, just say to our colleague richard corbett: the first duty of any good democrat is to ensure that the likes of mr jeremy corbyn, an unreconstructed marxist, should never become prime minister of the united kingdom. may i also say that when president sassoli spoke at the beginning of this debate, he was not correct when he said that there were just two options. he said extension or no—deal. in fact, of course, there is a third option, and that is getting the deal done before 31 october. there is effectively a week left to conclude a suitable deal between the european union and the uk. the british prime minister wants a deal, he’s put very reasonable proposals on the table and he has shown great flexibility. i’m not sure we’ve seen the same flexibility from dublin or indeed from the eu and it’s not too late. michel barnier tells me, there is a way. i hope and trust that this involves new thinking by the european union. unfortunately, over many months, the european union has been distracted by noises offstage, unhelpful voices, often coming from the uk, and we’ve heard some of that this afternoon. these have given a totally false impression of the attitude of the british people and our determination to get brexit done.
if i may refer to president sassoli, my interpretation of his comments was that, in the event of no agreement being reached, there were two choices. i think the president was quite clear.
madam president, on 31 october, the united kingdom is scheduled to leave the european union. we must leave as one nation. this means that northern ireland will leave the single market and the customs union with the rest of the united kingdom. prime minister johnson’s blueprint means that the consent of the elected representatives of northern ireland is rightly required to opt into some of the rules, which would make trading with our neighbours in the republic of ireland easier for businesses and farmers: a sensible, pragmatic way forward, honouring the uk’s referendum result. this has been met with complete negativity by eu leaders. it appears that no proposal other than tying northern ireland to the eu’s single market and customs union is acceptable to this house, the irish prime minister or even the german chancellor. so let’s be clear, again: northern ireland is an integral part of the united kingdom through the consent of the people of northern ireland. we will not be torn out of its internal market and customs union, and we are not the eu’s bargaining chip in this negotiation.
madam president, the finnish presidency, mr barnier, commissioner carlos moedas, two issues will dominate the council. one has to do with the long-term budget and in particular the mff, and i must say that i am very concerned because this commission's proposal is a bad proposal. it is a proposal that serves rich countries and not poor countries, it is not a proposal for cohesion. and i am very concerned because i see that the new commissioner responsible for this area has no desire to change that; the commission has shown no willingness to take the initiative in the commission to increase the budget and thus be able to have a cohesion policy. secondly, the question of brexit, and it is clear that mr boris johnson is just playing a guilt-picking game at the moment. the european union is trying to pass itself off as the party to blame for the lack of agreement. now, we cannot give in to this blackmail and we must say this to all the english and all the british: the european parliament is fully prepared to reach an agreement, we are prepared to reach an agreement within the short term of one week, but we are prepared to grant an extension. the point is that there is good faith and a willingness on the part of the united kingdom to make a real deal.
madam president, minister, colleagues, there are also other items on the agenda of the european council than brexit. it will decide on the start of the accession negotiations between the eu and northern macedonia and albania. only last week, president tusk, president juncker, president sassoli and president-elect von der leyen issued a joint letter on the opening of accession talks. their wording was strong and their message was crystal clear. north macedonia and albania did what we asked them to do. the time has come to open accession talks with both countries. this is a test about the union’s ability to deliver on its promises and look to the future. the assessment for these two countries is, of course, different. these are two separate systems with different political contexts and distinct challenges, and every country must be judged on its own merits. but what i want to underline is that this decision is not about eu membership; it’s the start of accession negotiations, which is based on an assessment made on clear benchmarks and clear deliverables. both north macedonia and albania are ready to start working on further difficult but necessary reforms in the years ahead. and let me remind you that this decision has already been delayed for one year. so let’s not miss this opportunity to make our enlargement policy once again credible and predictable.
madam president, the support of the eu for northern ireland and the good friday agreement throughout this brexit crisis is hugely appreciated by those in northern ireland. we need that support to continue now. more than anywhere in europe, northern ireland needs a deal if brexit proceeds. a deal that creates no new border infrastructure within our islands, protects our economy and respects the good friday agreement in both letter and spirit – a point reinforced powerfully by tony blair, bertie ahern and john bruton at my recent brexit event here in brussels. the uk government’s proposals do none of that. instead of avoiding a border, they create two. instead of protecting business, it creates more barriers to trade and places business in ‘brex-eternity’: an unending four—year cycle of uncertainty as to their position in the single market. instead of protecting the good friday agreement, it places the future of the northern ireland assembly – already suspended for three years – in further jeopardy. these are not serious proposals. the uk government wants a no—deal brexit but wants to lay the blame with the eu for its consequences. it is crucial that strategy does not succeed. it is vital that a no—deal brexit is avoided. northern ireland’s people, prosperity and peace depend upon it. (applause)
blue-card question. – yes, the country voted – the uk voted – to leave the eu, but they didn’t know what they were voting on and they were misled. (loud protests from certain quarters)(president: ‘would you ask a question. i don’t want a statement. i’m really sorry, i need a question.’) yes, i would like nigel farage to account for why he stood in front of that poster with refugees that had nothing to do with the european union. i would like to ask why they supported erroneous statistics and inaccurate facts. they know … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, it is actually mr allard, and you are quite right, because i am french and i represent scotland, one of the nations of the united kingdom, here in this parliament. mr barnier, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the work you have done so far. i would particularly like to thank you for your respect, for your courtesy and also for your phlegm, a very british word and one of the values that we may have lost in britain now and that it may be good for a frenchman to remind us of. i just wanted to say that brexit is not just about tariffs, it's also, and i'll continue in english here... especially about people, it's about people like myself, it's about people living in northern ireland, in the republic of ireland, it's about people who are married to eu citizens who live in the uk, it's about british people who are living across the eu, who are married to other people. so please remember this, should anything happen, secure our rights.
mr president, i just want to make clear that, in the uk, we live in a parliamentary democracy, and that means that when a referendum result comes out, it is then advised to the parliamentarians, the mps in parliament, who then try and administer that result. fortunately or unfortunately, there is no brexit majority in the uk parliament. i’m a lib dem. as far as the lib dem manifesto goes, we have never ever said that we will be putting the brexit result and we will want to do it. we were just told that we’d put it in our manifesto. it’s not true. the other thing is i would very much like boris johnson to carry on in government with a majority of -43, and whatever we want to do, it’s like a fish hanging on a line, and we will do what we can until 2022 to not have a brexit.
mr barnier, would you please explain to this chamber, and indeed the citizens of europe, why you refuse to adopt the recommendations of your own expert, lars karlsson, in his report ‘smart borders 2’ – his excellent 48-page report produced in november 2017, confirming that using existing technologies, existing best practices around the world, that actually you could have a friction-free border in ireland. why, sir, do you continue to reject that recommendation? may i put it to you? the reason is that you want to handcuff the european union to regulatory alignment and to the customs union because you don’t want us to succeed as a high-growth, low-tax, smartly-regulated country off europe. (applause from various quarters)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on 'making the european investment bank more environmentally friendly' (2019/2835 ((rsp)). before we start the next debate, i would like to inform you once again that we are still testing the new system for electronically registering members for spontaneous votes and blue cards. i would add, however, that i did not include the blue cards which were called during the spontaneous debate because we consider the blue cards to be part of the debate and not an additional item in the spontaneous debate. i did not call for spontaneous speeches from those who had already given up their blue cards in the debate because they had already spoken in this way. the question of who is to be consulted when and whether is a matter for the bureau to decide in the context of an orderly debate. you have received information on how to use this system by e-mail and the instructions are on the table. you do not have to wait for the end of the meeting to submit a request for a voice message, but you can use the function buttons on your electronic voting machine if you have your voting card with you, which is a prerequisite for using the system. so please take her with you. if you wish to register a spontaneous speech, you can do so now, you do not have to wait until the end of the debate. if you do not wish to use the electronic system, you can use the usual tools, the white and blue cards. that's just for the introduction and for the explanation again. i would like to welcome the president of the european investment bank, mr werner hoyer, and the commissioner for research, science and innovation, mr carlos moedas.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, dear president of the eib, werner hoyer, first of all a word for the people of germany. my heart is with the jewish community. today is the holiest day of the jewish calendar, yom kippur, and so my heart is with those that are victims of that horrendous attack. i’m here representing my colleague, the vice-president, valdis dombrovskis, in this debate about greening the european investment bank. during the past years the commission has interacted a lot with the eib, notably in the context of the investment plan for europe, and in particular in the context of the european fund for strategic investments, as a core part of the plan. the cooperation with the european commission and the eib under the investment plan has been a great success, and as a commissioner for research and science, i am the witness to that. in particular, i’m so happy to see that 25% of the projects funded are related to research and innovation. the european fund for strategic investment is a dedicated investment support instrument with an eu budget guarantee, and it allows the bank to move to more risky investments in areas such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, but also innovation and to support smaller companies. it was one of the flagship priorities of our commission. so now, five years later, it is clear that the investment plan for europe and our cooperation with the eib is delivering, and the question is: why was it such a success? and i think that, first, because we are close to reaching our goal: 500 billion of investment mobilised by the fund. second, because we were helping more than one million smes across europe that benefited from the financing, that created jobs, that strengthened our economy. and third, because we have helped 30 million people to get better health services, and then we helped seven million households to get renewable energy. therefore the eib is instrumental in mobilising financing for our common political priorities. honourable president, members, we have achieved a lot, but a lot more has to be done to achieve the 2030 climate and energy targets and our long-term goal of carbon-neutral europe by 2050. our investments in climate and environmental projects in the next decade will need to grow considerably. we need up to 290 billion of additional investments per year, from energy efficiency to cleaner transport in the infrastructure. those investments are to a large extent of private nature, and we need to mobilise private finance for those investments. so on the one hand we need to create a supportive framework, but on the other hand, we can also use our eu budget to mobilise private capital. so we will continue doing it with the future investeu programme, maintaining our crucial partnership with the european investment bank. president-elect ursula von der leyen, in her speech in this house back in july, proposed a sustainable europe investment plan under the european green deal, aiming to mobilise one trillion of investment over the next decade. this plan will aim to make europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050 and will broaden our strategic environmental agenda beyond climate. furthermore, the two eu-ets funds, the innovation fund and the modernisation fund, will also contribute to the much needed mobilisation of climate investments. support to investments will go hand in hand with our strategy for green and sustainable financing, to ensure complementarity between the commission’s regulatory and investment actions. so, honourable president and members, today the eib is the largest multilateral provider of climate finance worldwide, committing at least 25% of its investment to climate change mitigation. already in 2007, the eib issued the first world green bond, labelled the climate awareness bond, and in september 2018, the first sustainable awareness bond. the eib, the largest issuer of green bonds, has raised 23 billion across 11 countries, of which 4 billion was raised last year alone. so what am i saying? i’m saying that de facto, mr president, you are the european union’s climate bank. you are already that. the commission welcomes the eib announcement to achieve full alignment with the paris agreement by 2020. scaling up investments in climate action and environmental sustainability will have to go hand in hand with building up capacity and expertise of project developers, for which technical assistance and advisory services will be warranted to build up a robust pipeline of sustainable investment projects. the commission will need to discuss with the eib and with member states, as the eib shareholders, how such an increasing financing for climate and environmental investments could be made in the most effective and efficient way, also to serve the objective of a just transition. the commission takes the view that this increased focus on the climate and environment does not require a major institutional change. the eib mandate is broad enough to accommodate a more ambitious, sustainable focus within the statutory mandate, combining eventually its own resources operations and operations under the backing of the eu budget. i look forward to hearing your views.
president eib. – mr president, members of the european parliament, let me, first of all, thank you very much for this opportunity to, together with commissioner moedas, address the issue of greening the eu bank. the cooperation between the european parliament and the eib has always been very close and the ep has been crucial in guiding our financing activities as the eu bank. so, discussing the future steps is a very welcome opportunity, for which i thank mr president and the members of the european parliament. humanity is at a crossroads. we must act immediately and swiftly if we want to ensure a sustainable transition to a net—zero emissions economy, and if we have listened to the european voters in the election to the european parliament this spring, we have seen that european citizens are sometimes ahead of the public sphere. according to the special eurobarometer on climate change published last month, 93% of respondents think climate change is a serious problem and 79% think it is a very serious problem. we would not have achieved these results even one year ago; now it’s there. a majority of respondents in 19 countries think climate change is one of the most serious problems facing the world today. these numbers speak for themselves. citizens in the eu and beyond are asking us to stand up to the challenge. the accumulation of greenhouse gases has caused average temperatures to rise by almost 1 °c globally above pre—industrial levels. two thirds of this increase has occurred since 1975. if business continues as usual, we will have stoked a rise in global average temperatures of 4 °c by the end of this century. that might not sound too much, and in a city like brussels today, you might think 4 degrees more isn’t such a bad idea, but our climate is fragile, very fragile, and small changes in surface temperature have a significant impact. for instance, the last time average temperatures lay 4 °c below pre—industrial levels, brussels lay buried beneath several kilometres of ice. you can imagine, then, what 4 degrees hotter might mean. under such a scenario, heatwaves would become the norm. an average july day in europe would see temperatures in excess of 40°c, so drought, forest fires, crop failures, food shortages and disease pandemics would become commonplace events, potentially displacing millions of people. we should remember that the past – or present – wave of migration in the middle east, marked as it has been by human suffering and death, had its origins in drought and other climate—related problems. since 2012, we have provided eur 150 billion of finance, supporting eur 550 billion of investment in climate action and environmental sustainability, making the eu bank group one of the world’s largest multilateral providers of finance for climate and environment projects – as a matter of fact, the largest one. since we first set ourselves a climate action finance target in 2010, our ambition has been increasing. in 2015, we were the driving force behind the multilateral development banks (mdb) in the paris process and at the united nations summit on the sustainable development goals. in this context, we pledged to provide usd 100 billion for climate action projects in the five—year period to 2020. we’re delivering on that target. indeed, since 2016, we have invested approximately usd 71 billion into climate action projects and last year alone, usd 16 billion again. having said that, the eib can and is ready to become even greener. we have listened to the conclusions of the european council in june, which requested the eu bank to step up its climate action activities. we have listened to the very clear message by president—elect ursula von der leyen in her address to you at the european parliament and we have listened to you, the european parliament, and your very vocal international calls for action. the eib is expected to be ambitious, and this is the reason why i believe we should not disappoint and make proposals to our shareholders which are ambitious. we are presently finalising our increased ambition for 2030 climate action and environmental sustainability, and our approach builds around three pillars: one, an increase in our own financing. last year, nearly 30% of the eib’s new commitments worldwide were dedicated to climate and environmental goals. i would like the eib to be much bolder and aim for 50% for these activities by 2025. secondly, a commitment to growing sustainable finance from billions to trillions. by working with our public and private partners, we aim to help unlock at least eur one trillion of investment by 2030. this would include a marked increase in support for climate adaptation and resilience. but, as the commissioner just said, mr president, these objectives are never achievable with taxpayers’ money alone. we need to leverage the possibilities that the european union is giving us by drawing in the private sector into the financing of these projects. that’s what we are there for. thirdly, building on our 2015 climate strategy, we will align all the eib group’s financing activities with the paris principles and goals by the end of 2020. this is extremely important because it would be counterproductive if we finance 50% not in greenwashing but in real climate projects, and then with the rest of our projects, the other 50%, we destroy exactly what we have just achieved by financing dirty stuff. this will not happen. alignment with the paris agreement will determine a change in the eib group’s policies and actions, starting with a pledge to phase out energy projects that depend on fossil fuels. this is my proposal. it is difficult. the new eib energy lending policy, which is currently under discussion by the eib board, will be an important step in this regard. with a very strong focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, power grids and research and development, the eib believes the proposed energy lending policy is well aligned with eu priorities and funding. we will, again, achieve this only if another condition is being met beyond attracting the private sector – and that is via strengthening innovation. this builds on our 2015 climate strategy, which committed us to mainstreaming climate change considerations in everything we do. science tells us that transitioning to a carbon—neutral economy entails ending the use of fossil fuels as soon as possible. thanks to our emissions performance standard, we have not supported any coal—fired power projects for almost a decade: the first mdb to do so. in addition, we will position the eib as an incubator for climate finance and expertise to mobilise others, helping our societies and economies transform to a low—carbon level. but we must not forget that some countries are further advanced than others on the road to a low—carbon economy, and that some areas, communities and sectors will be more deeply affected than others by this transition. so, while stepping up our role as climate bank, we further commit to working closely with member states, the commission and parliament to ensure a just and fair transition. we are fully aware that different member states have different needs and we are committed to ensuring that no one is left behind. it is not just about energy efficiency, energy supply and energy security; it is also about jobs and growth. for instance, we note that 41 regions in the eu are mining coal, providing jobs to 250 000 people, most of whom have limited opportunities to find alternative employment. you cannot simply take a coal miner and turn her or him into an it specialist overnight. we have seen the detrimental effects on communities and regions in the past when a transition is not fair and just. i’m confident that the eib group can greatly contribute to implementing the ambitious vision of the european green deal, thanks to our proven ability to mobilise investment and support for eu priorities on climate action and environmental sustainability. and, as requested by vice—president timmermans yesterday before parliament, you can count on the eib to be a key partner in the implementation of the sustainable europe investment plan. we stand ready to work with you and develop new products and ideas to make this vision a reality. despite overdrawing my time account, mr president, i would like to take the opportunity to thank the commissioner, my friend carlos moedas, firstly, for the serious words he said at the beginning of his intervention, and i share the grief and the deep horror that went along with receiving this message this afternoon. and secondly, thank god on a more positive side, i would like to thank the innovation commissioner for outstanding cooperation with our institution. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the european investment bank on taking a very active stand on the sustainable finance issue, because we know what is the challenge in climate change and the circular economy. we do have the technologies and yes, we do have the money, but a big part of the money is on sunk investments at the moment, on both public and private funding. this is what the sustainable finance initiative is trying to correct. the direction is right, but i would like to raise the bar much faster and much higher. yes, of course, you could be very proud and you should be proud of the fact that over 20% – almost 30% – of the investments are climate-neutral and sustainable, but let’s take it the other way. that means that over 70% of the investments are not, and that is the ambition level. when we are using the public’s scarce resources, be it the eu budget, be investeu, be it the european investment bank, the finance should be only for sustainable, greening initiatives that turn our infrastructures in the lines of the green deal and that turn our economies to circular economy, climate-neutral and a future orientation on the logics of backcasting. look what is the challenge. it’s a marathon and not just walking a bit more. a lot of courage and higher ambition level is what i’m looking forward to from the upcoming commission and the european investment bank.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i believe we have discussed in this house on many occasions the need to improve the democratic accountability of the european investment bank. and i think that the day mr hoyer sits next to the commissioner that is probably a clear sign that this parliament has an explicit control capacity over the european investment bank. in any case, i believe that the whole union, all the institutions, must be perfectly aligned with the objective of complying, of course, with the paris agreement. but in that process, we have to pay special attention to those regions which - as the president of the eib said - may suffer in the process of decarbonisation, and therefore the transition has to be a just transition. and to be fair, we need the eib's effort to improve the financing of renewable energy projects, energy efficiency projects. and keep in mind the territorial balance as regards those regions which need eib support to face this transition.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i campaigned in france with the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, for the transformation of the european investment bank into a climate bank at european level. so i'm very pleased to see the commitments and decisions you're about to make. firstly, 50% of your climate action, that means around €15 billion in loans every year, plus green infrastructure, renewable energy, building insulation, very concrete things for european citizens and businesses. it also means aligning - and you said this - the bank's entire activity with the paris agreement. this does not mean that i do 50% green and the rest of the time i don't look, it means that all my activity is compatible with the paris agreement. and in doing so, you may be the first bank not only to make that commitment, but to deliver on it. so you have the opportunity to write for all the other banking institutions exactly as the eib did about a decade ago on green bonds the grammar of what it means for a bank to be aligned with the paris agreement. and it is very good that the european investment bank is playing this role of setting standards for the whole financial world. now i insist on the notion of just transition. we must be very careful to ensure that this commitment is compatible with taking the whole of the european continent with us. so it is very important that in the commitments you are going to make, in the decisions you are going to make in the coming days, you can guarantee to the countries that have the most transition needs, and particularly in central europe, that greening the eib, making the eib the european climate bank, does not mean more financing in the west and less financing in central europe, it means on the contrary perhaps more financing in central europe and eastern europe, because that is where the needs are the most acute, and that is how we will take the whole continent for the good of europeans and the planet.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, the full support of the greens to make from the eib a climate bank. as greens we fully support that direction. but we are getting a bit concerned if the commission is saying: well, you are already a climate bank. this is totally inconsistent with your own plans for sustainable investment for the future. this is totally inconsistent with your plans on a carbon-neutral economy. we need a huge investment, and the eib needs to play a role. the eib wants to play a role, but then we also need a commission that is serious about changing the eib into a climate bank. and i see the commission looking surprised, but if we are looking at the first litmus test, it’s going to be the energy lending policies, and there the commission is playing a role. and we want to see that no money from a public investment bank is going to fossil fuels. none. and the commission is not on that line. for example, on gas, you are promoting an exception for low-carbon gas. have you not learnt of ccs-ready coal? that was a joke. the coal came and the ccs-ready never worked. if you are serious about a climate bank, you should be serious about the energy lending policies: no financing to fossil fuels. (applause)
mr president, i find this debate hilarious. here we are standing in this chamber debating the virtues of going green and look around you: at a cost of around eur 30 million by my estimates, we’ve flown in, trained in and driven in meps from across europe to not attend this debate. we’re here to talk about green matters, but we’ve burnt half the flipping planet getting here. i find it hilarious. i used to be a eurosceptic. but i must now declare that i am in contempt of the european union. i hold the european union in contempt in equal measure to the contempt it has shown my country and its people over the last three years, and particularly in the last couple of months. when we leave – and we will leave –, we will deregulate our banking sector, we will cut our taxes, we will deregulate our businesses and we will take the european union on. and so i’m delighted when i see this empty chamber wasting hot air on a subject over which it has absolutely zero control and to which it contributes nothing positive. (applause)
mr president, we all saw the citizens of europe at the european elections come out and vote in high numbers, particularly the youth, and demanding us to combat climate change, to improve our energy efficiency and to protect our environment. this is why i see that there is now a wide majority here in the european parliament committed to doing this. we need to start by establishing the principles and then we need to work out the details. when it comes to the principles, the first thing that i need to say is: everybody needs to contribute to tackling climate change. that’s the first principle. the second principle: there will be regions and countries on which the burden will be bigger. we need to help them more. a study by the european commission says that when it comes to reaching our 2030 co2 emissions targets, particularly countries with lower income will be affected more. thirdly, one-size-fits-all from the side of the eib, after you review your energy lending policy, will not work. we need a tailored approach. you will need to work with authorities in respective member states to see exactly where they need investment, and on the way to a green economy, we should make sure that we stay competitive and that we strengthen european industry and economy, not weaken it.
mr president, i welcome that mr hoyer comes here with ambition. that’s welcome in this european parliament and i ask you for even more ambition because this european parliament has pushed for and embraced the initiative of sustainable finance for private financial institutions. there are two key elements. first of all, we always see sustainability as broad. it’s not just about green, it’s about other risks. it’s not just about environmental risks, but also about social and governmental risks. second, we urge finance institutions to do due diligence – to identify, prevent or mitigate sustainability risks. so, my question to mr hoyer is: will you be really ambitious, set the example for the other financial institutions and become a leader in sustainable finance, defined as i just have?
mr president, i would like to welcome the proposed leading policy of the eib for energy projects, which includes extra financing for less—developed member states, a bigger focus on renewable sources, and the phase-out of fossil fuels by 2020. it is an important step forward, especially concerning member states like my home country greece, lacking in energy efficiency of buildings, but actually willing to address eu goals on tackling climate change. the four components of the eib’s energy lending policy – unlocking energy efficiency, decarbonised energy supply, supporting innovation in new energy infrastructure and securing the enabling infrastructure – need a huge amount of investment to become everyday—life reality. for example, energy efficiency investments in building and industry represents approximately three quarters of the total investments required in the period 2021-2030, equal to eur 281 billion per year. it is also of paramount importance to support the 41 regions dependent on coal – in greece, we have western macedonia – by encouraging the transformation of their economy and also reskilling and upskilling workers. so, an active transformation of the eib into a climate bank is not only the way to accelerate addressing our climate goals. it is also a strong and clear message to the whole world that here in the eu, we are determined to maintain leadership on tackling climate change by creating jobs and growth.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate showed us that we are in agreement, that we are happy that the new commission wants to present both a strategy for green finance and an investment plan for a future europe, and that we are making the european investment bank even stronger as a climate bank with a new name. it's not the name that counts. it depends on the legal bases, on the projects, on the involvement of the european parliament, on the objectives, the selection procedure and the governance structure. we have learned a lot from juncker plan i, efsi 1, efsi 2 and now eu-invest, where we are already mobilising €1 200 billion private and public money by 2027, with more than €330 billion for achieving sustainable goals and climate objectives. that means we have to make this experience the evolution. we must take over the involvement of parliament, the legal basis, the projects, the objectives and the governance structure. learning from each other, getting better together - that's our goal.
mr president, the real scandal in teresa may’s surrender treaty was philip hammond, our clueless ex-chancellor, giving the eib eur 7.5 billion of taxpayer’s money and leaving britain exposed to a toxic time bomb of eur 37 billion in callable capital should the eib require more money, not to mention leaving us exposed to a further eur 450 billion of guarantees to loan notes if the economies of the eurozone collapse. the scale of incompetence is staggering. it’s either ineptitude on an industrial scale or wilful malfeasance. the eib has made over eur 5 billion of profit in the last two years and britain has not received a single penny. despite 16% of the equity, the british economy only gets 8% of the loans and now we learn the eib is going to risk half its lending on the eu’s green agenda, the biggest transfer of wealth to the climate industrial complex. it’s crony capitalism and central planning on a scale not since seen since the soviet five-year plans.
mr president, the european investment bank proposed in july to end its overlong fossil fuels financing, sending an important signal to financial markets and institutions around the world and initiating a change of direction in global financial flows. adopting the proposal in its original form would effectively turn the eib into the real eu climate bank. not only would the eib become the first public international financial institution aligned with the paris agreement, such an unprecedented move would also stimulate the much—needed energy transition in central and eastern europe, where governments are resistant to this change. but a watered-down and weakened version of this proposal will go to the vote on 15 october and this revised version is unacceptable. colleagues, the climate emergency is already here. we cannot and will not tolerate leaders who treat climate protection as a secondary issue and i was proud, therefore, to have joined more than 7 million other people in 150 countries on 20 september as part of the global strike for the climate.
mr president, the european investment bank has energy and transport sectors which account for a very significant part of its investment portfolio. this gives the eib a relevant role in financing projects that can promote environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change. over the years, however, eib investment has not always been in line with the european union's proclamations in these areas. more investment is needed in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, multimodal, low-emission public transport systems, among others, but more is needed. more public investment is needed, less market instruments. instead of concentrating resources on large corporations, the eib should use them as an instrument for the effective promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion, to promote real convergence of economies, cooperation, employment and social justice. let us not separate these dimensions: policies will be all the greener the more they are also red.
mr president, in the eastern mediterranean, and in the mediterranean in general, the effects of climate change are already evident. we therefore support the commitment to the paris agreement and the european union's policy of clean energy for all, with renewable energy sources. however, the 'one size fits all' model cannot be applied. especially for isolated and island states such as cyprus, natural gas will have direct effects in reducing environmental pollution compared to other fuels such as oil. it also provides flexibility to adapt so that our goals, mr president, are achievable. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, we hear a great deal about the environmental and ecology credentials of the european union. this eu ecowarrior myth has become so dominant among the remain-minded that i wouldn’t be surprised if commission representatives were not among the climate emergency mob blockading london streets. but for such an eco-friendly organisation, please answer me this. why is the eu’s own common fisheries policy allowing a super trawler, 14 times the size of the average british vessel, to fish in an area of the english channel that is thought to be a breeding area for seabass, a species the eu has banned british fishers from catching due to their scarcity? this vessel has already destroyed fishes off west africa, been banned from australian waters and caused controversy in chile. this supertrawler is known to have horrific bycatch rates which endanger species such as bluefin tuna, john dory and common dolphins in that area. can you also tell me when the eu will learn that this type of fishing factory ship is not the way forward and start taking the environmentally friendly small-scale fishing fleet more seriously?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the $7.5 billion in tariffs are primarily an instrument of trump's campaign strategy. i think it is particularly perfidious to impose a 25% duty on all books from germany and the united kingdom, even though they are wto-compliant. the example makes it clear that we as the eu should not retaliate, let alone retaliate against boeing. i'm against a trade war. we must instead agree within the wto and with our partners on when state aid is sound industrial policy and should therefore be allowed. because let's face it, without subsidies, neither boeing nor airbus would have succeeded. if we are serious about making climate protection and achieving our un 2030 sustainability goals a top policy objective, then we will need state aid in all countries. we must think in this way when we reform the wto.
mr president, free trade brings prosperity; it lifts all our boats. protectionism through subsidies and tariffs is the enemy of free trade and prosperity. subsidies and tariffs are doomed to fail: they make us all poorer. singapore, without any natural resource except for its people, did not bargain away its tariffs; it unilaterally abolished them. now its prosperity is the envy of the world. us tariffs are a response to eu subsidies in european steel and aviation. the eu introduced 25% tariffs on american whiskey and bourbon. now the us is levying 25% tariffs on scotch malt whisky. the way to respond is not to retaliate with new or higher tariffs, but to end the state subsidies and unilaterally reduce tariffs. instead, the uk has been dragged into a tariff war not of our making. these are the uk’s tariff proposals for when we leave the eu. they are substantially lower than the eu’s. thanks to brexit, tariffs on us whiskey and bourbon will be reduced – they will be abolished. i expect donald trump to do the same for the scotch malt whisky. thank goodness we have a lifeboat.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the withdrawal of us troops from northern syria is creating a dangerous power vacuum. i am very concerned about reports that turkish troops have launched offensives in areas of syria controlled by kurdish forces. we call upon the turkish government to cease these actions. the focus now must be on defeating the un-listed terrorist organisations, to play a constructive role in the syrian conflict, abide by international law, and in particular the united nations security council resolution 2254 in order to find a solution to the syria conflict. the opening of new fronts in syria is not in the interest of turkey’s security. this intervention adds a new dimension to the conflict in syria and raises serious concerns about the impact on the delicate internal balance in syria. the conflict has already resulted in a high number of civilian casualties and now many more civilian lives are at risk. it is vital that we avert a further deterioration in the country’s humanitarian crisis. we must keep at the forefront respect for international law, including the protection of civilians. we acknowledge the solidarity demonstrated by jordan, lebanon and turkey in light of the syrian refugee crisis, and call for eu and member state financial support aimed at addressing the urgent needs of refugees and their host communities to be stepped up. we call for responsibility-sharing, allowing refugees fleeing syrian war zones to find protection beyond the immediate neighbouring region, including through resettlement and humanitarian admission schemes. we stress that syria is currently not safe for refugee returns and that the eu must not support such returns. finally, it is evident that there can be no effective conflict resolution or sustainable peace in syria without accountability for the crimes committed. we call for the adoption of an eu accountability strategy towards the atrocities committed in syria.
mr president, boris johnson is playing a dangerous game, but nothing can hide the fact that there is no mandate for no deal, no prospect of a different deal before council, and no recent opinion polls which give a majority to leave. be in no doubt: johnson is absolutely desperate to avoid a second referendum, because he thinks he will lose it. it is a travesty of democracy. he wants to crash us out to please his hedge fund backers who are betting on britain’s economic decline. my message and the message from the majority of uk meps is that we need your patience. we need your help. we need your support in this crisis. we can turn this around, but only if we have a long enough extension for an election and to organise a referendum. please keep the door open for the british people, especially those who were too young to have voted in 2016. we are fighting. we are determined. we can win for this generation and the next. (applause in some quarters)
mr president, colleagues, yesterday we celebrated the magnificent campaign to end the ‘cage age’. european citizens have spoken. they want the eu to outlaw the caging of farm animals and to do so not in the next century, but next week. yet even now, my constituents from the loveliest parts of suffolk and norfolk write in desperation, as permission is granted for yet more monstrous prison farms, yet more horrendous poultry processing factories. neither the uk government nor the local authorities are moving in the right direction towards eliminating this scourge. we urgently need eu regulations. these factories run counter to all current thinking on animal welfare, human health and environmental protection. they serve no purpose other than the obscene profits for investors, who blithely defile countryside and rivers with the stinking excrement of animals whose lives are too appalling to contemplate. it’s time to heed the cries of both humans and animals.
mr president, i have important economic news. between now and saturday, 19 october 2019, sales of walking shoes are rocketing, because on that day in london will be a people’s march to demand a people’s vote – from park lane to parliament square – for the majority who want to stop brexit. some brexiteers want britain to sleepwalk into a no-deal brexit. they confuse with lies, they use money from hedge funds, the values of trump and twitter bots in russia, but we are wide-awake, full of hope and free from fear. we will not let brexit wreck our economy, damage our nhs or pollute our environment. we will not let johnson or farage tell their lies again, because on 19 october, we march for our children’s future. (applause)
mr president, nicholas kaldor presciently predicted, of the mitterrand-inspired werner plan in 1969, that rather than bringing europe together, the single currency would tear europe apart. floating currencies allow appreciation and depreciation to adjust smoothly for differing economic and cultural circumstances. borrowing is kept proportionate in weaker economies. only quantitative easing, or as i prefer to call it ‘getting high on your own supply’, keeps the euro alive. it will continue to grind the weaker economies into poverty, causing unnecessary hardship for millions of europeans. the sleep of reason produces monsters. europe has created a true monster in its desire for a post-war european super-state. anti-capitalist negative interest rates will turn the coming economic downturn into a catastrophe. britain must leave this failing project before the roof falls in and show other european countries how they can save themselves.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen. the citizens of the united kingdom in 2016 expressed their will to leave the european union. it's their right. but it is the job of the british institutions to carry out that will, and as we see, they are failing. both governments that emerged after the referendum were unable to bring this agreement to the table. i want to stress that we are always ready to negotiate with the uk and if the government in london is not ready to leave, we can conclude a deferral agreement with them. but we need to hear a clear statement. we either leave, or we stay, or we take some time to think. but unfortunately, we don't get that from london. in any case, we will always protect the rights of our citizens who work, study, live in britain. whatever happens with brexit, our principles remain clear. and i believe that despite the current chaos in the uk, it is in our mutual interest to find a way to each other in every situation and not away from each other.
mr president, the british company vesuvius has recently announced the closure of two of its plants in spain, one of them in my region, asturias, and the dismissal of more than a hundred workers. a difficult decision to understand, when these plants operate with profits, have flexible working relationships and there are no objective indicators that can explain this decision. i would remind vesuvius that in europe we have a social market economy and that business decisions must be based on mutual loyalty between workers and the company. and for that reason i would like to send a direct message to vesuvius: you should open negotiations now with the workers and with the public administration. otherwise i will be here in the european parliament following all of your activities and studying all of your requests for european money.
mr president, ‘united in diversity’ is probably the most famous european slogan. diversity has many dimensions – one of them is linguistic diversity – of which we also pretend to take care. but we’re systematically overlooking the fact that some member states are making efforts to assimilate their minorities. during the accession period of my native estonia and neighbouring latvia, we received a list of recommendations concerning the russian-speaking population. the main focus was on better integration of these people. however, 15 years later, the ruling coalition in latvia is preparing for a full transition to the latvian language in education, starting next year – but with 30% of the population being russian speakers – despite the protests, and despite the fact that forced assimilation is clearly forbidden by international law. we’re not in the accession process anymore, so we can violate the rights of national minorities and nothing will happen. europe has more important issues to solve. but colleagues, violation of human rights is violation of human rights, even if it takes place in the european union. before we go and strongly condemn somebody, let’s look in the mirror.
mr president, on the 70th anniversary of the chinese regime, it’s difficult to celebrate, with the backdrop of hundreds of thousands of heroic democracy protesters in hong kong facing ever-escalating repression. yet still they march, because they believe in sovereignty and democratic rights. many meps here cheer on these democratic warriors, and rightly so. and yet the eu itself thwarts democratic spirit closer to home: look at the brutal and violent treatment meted out to the gilets jaunes at the behest of president macron. here, there’s not a murmur of outrage at france or emergency debates, and it’s ignored by the european mainstream media. and, closer to my heart: the eu cheers on hong kong democrats, and yet millions of uk citizens use their democratic vote to leave the eu and reclaim their sovereignty and this parliament – too many in here – traduce, insult and demonise those voters, and even try to block their democratic decision. well, just as the hong kong authorities are fought back against, we’ll will fight back too. just as the hong kong authorities blocked the umbrella revolution, you block us. you can talk the talk, but you need to walk the walk. i show solidarity with the hong kong protesters, the gilets jaunes, and, of course, brexit voters. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, thank you very much to all the resistance fighters and especially to the interpreters who are standing here. i feel myself, myself and i. on october 2, the portuguese archipelago of the azores was severely hit by hurricane lorenzo, which left a trail of destruction on several islands. despite enormous local efforts, the material damage, public and private, is very high. the damage is extensive, seriously affecting ports, coastal communication routes, private dwellings, among other infrastructure. this is particularly important given the insular and archipelagic nature of the region. i would remind you that the azores are one of the outermost regions specifically mentioned in article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because of their structural constraints. european solidarity and support must therefore be guaranteed to the region at this difficult time, by supporting the local authorities in their reconstruction efforts and by providing support to the local population, which must be agile, effective and efficient.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and own resources: citizens' expectations should be met now (2019/2833 ((rsp)). before i open the debate, i should like to inform you that we are still testing a new system which will allow members to register spontaneous votes and blue cards electronically. you have received information on how to use this system by e-mail, and the instructions are on your desk. members may use the function buttons on their electronic voting machines to submit a request for an oral report. please note that in parallel with the use of the electronic system, a 'standard' registration is also possible (by raising a blank sheet of paper or by personally registering with the plenary colleagues at the beginning of the debate for spontaneous comments and by raising a blue card for the blue card procedure). i would therefore like to remind you politely to bring your voting card so that you can use this system. registration by e-mail is not possible. if you'd like to register a spontaneous word message, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the next multiannual financial framework (mff) will set the stakes for the financing of eu policies until 2027. our aim is a balanced financial framework that reflects both new priorities and traditional policies and contributes to the common european objectives. it is not too easy to achieve these substantial aims, but we are working hard. the timetable is also challenging us. even though we are in the middle of the institutional change, the presidency will do its best to finalise the council negotiations by the end of the year. i am personally very committed to this target. today’s plenary debate gives me a unique and concrete opportunity to cooperate with parliament. i personally chair the general affairs council meetings, but i also represent the council in every plenary session during our presidency, which gives us an opportunity to have an up-to-date discussion regularly. in the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation and in line with the approach outlined by the bulgarian presidency, we are committed to continuing the established practice of holding an exchange of views before and after sessions of the general affairs council (gac) when the mff is on its agenda. now a few words on the eu’s challenges and our common priorities. the next mff is to respond to europe’s current and future challenges by increasing the share of expenditure in policy areas with the highest european added-value. for decades, traditional policies have been supporting eu integration by fostering convergence and development as well as maintaining high standard agriculture in europe. we can see the positive results of these investments across the union and they will continue to foster convergence and support transition towards a sustainable agriculture. rural development funding plays a crucial role here. one of the key challenges of our time is climate change. we already see its impact on our environment and it is set only to worsen if we do not step up our efforts. many voices – firstly, the one of our youth – call upon us to do more. the mff will be essential to this purpose, as it will cover the period leading towards the 2030 climate targets deadline. on climate, member states seem to support the 25% mainstreaming target, even if some see it as the maximum and others as the minimum. further to the eu’s climate target on energy transition aiming for carbon neutrality, as a presidency we see that there is the need for a fund to facilitate fair transition towards carbon neutrality. the mff will also better support innovation and research, at a time when society is undergoing massive changes due to the digital transformation. europe needs to stay at the forefront of research, development and innovations. the future mff needs to be aligned with new priorities. managing migration requires a comprehensive approach. by providing funding and using different mff headings, it will be possible to better respond both to international and external aspects of migration. at the same time, our expectations must be grounded in reality. one of the biggest eu member states is set to leave the union. i have had consultations with the ministers of all member states, and in this context, many have expressed the need for the eu budget to reflect this new reality. as the presidency, this is an element that we have to take into account. as for own resources, they must provide a fair, transparent and equitable system for the financing of the next mff and to limit the administrative burden for the member states. from the presidency’s point of view, on new own resources the non-recycled plastic packaging waste proposal seems to gain the strongest support, and a positive approach from the majority of member states. as far as new own resources are concerned, we need to keep in mind that also here a consensus between all member states is needed. now defending european values starts from respect for the rule of law within the union, and above all, in its member states. rule of law is not a political declaration but a legal norm. from the presidency’s perspective, article 2 of the treaty concerning the rule of law will not stay in force by itself, and this should be reflected in our policy work. rule of law is a crucial element in the next mff as it includes the proposal on protecting the union budget from rule-of-law deficiencies. that proposal applies equally to all member states and all eu funds, just like the rule of law itself. rule of law and democracy form the foundation of european freedom, security and prosperity. respect for the rule of law is self-evidently linked to the legitimacy and proper functioning of the eu. one of the priorities of the finnish presidency is to ensure protection of the rule of law and to reinforce its links to the budget. following the leaders’ guidance, we will continue our work on this important matter. i am convinced that there is a way to create a balanced and legally sound instrument based on the commission’s proposal. i am aware of the concerns of members of this parliament on the timeline. so far, the presidency’s work within the council has focused on listening to the member states and their priorities. now there will be an opportunity for the leaders to give the presidency direct guidance. to this end, the presidency is preparing a paper that will facilitate the first substantial discussion of the leaders in october’s european council. obviously, this will depend on the reactions of delegations and above all, on the way president tusk will want to conduct the discussion. on the basis of the leaders’ guidance, we will prepare a finalised draft negotiation box with numbers to facilitate an agreement by the end of the year, as concluded by the european council in june this year. i would like to underline once more that the presidency is fully committed to meeting this timetable and we will do our utmost to facilitate the final stages of the mff negotiations. it is also fundamental for us to cooperate with you in line with the previous presidencies and to progress on sectoral mff proposals with a view of reaching additional common understandings. thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to our discussion.
i would like to say to mr rivière that he has his reasons for voting in committees. there is an agreement between the political groups, which is not laid down in the rules of procedure, and the groups decide. of course, political considerations also come into play. as regards the first point you have mentioned, anyone who is a full member can stand, and we will look into that part of your speech. her request was twofold. i shall deal with the first point because it is a formal point which is regulated in the rules of procedure. if the colleague is a full member, she must be allowed to stand. whether she gets elected is a whole other question.
i thank you very much, mr mariani. my answer here again refers to the second part of the reply to mr rivière. the rules of procedure only provide in general terms that a balance must be maintained. the final decision is taken in the committees. i do not see any reason to follow up your statement here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to react to the european parliament’s political resolution on the next eu long-term budget. i salute your engagement on this file of strategic importance which will help shape the future of the european union over the coming decade. i also recognise the intense work carried out by this parliament, in particular the co—rapporteurs and negotiating team appointed by the chair of the committee on budgets (budg) mr van overtveldt – ms marques, ms hayer, mr olbrycht, mr fernandes and mr andresen – to bring forward this political resolution now. the european council will hold an exchange of views on the next multiannual financial framework next week and i can only encourage the leaders and the council presidency to take into due consideration the european parliament’s positions. the interim report that parliament adopted in november last year was a substantial contribution to the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. one year later, and after the european elections of may, it was essential to leave absolutely no ambiguity about the continuity of parliament’s stance. i therefore welcome that this political resolution largely endorses the position already expressed in 2018. i also take note of the new elements that this political resolution brings forward. i will address them in a minute. but before doing so, i would like to recall the commission’s position on the overall level of expenditure. it is certainly one of the issues, if not the issue, that steers the ongoing negotiations the most. parliament would like to set the next eu long—term budget at the level of 1.3% of the eu27 gni. at the other end of the spectrum, several member states have been repeatedly calling for a budget limited to 1% of the eu27 gni. i believe we all need to address those divergences. all institutions need to be active and constructive in seeking a compromise. at the end of the day, there will need to be an agreement on the next eu long-term budget, and the sooner the better. we urgently need to make progress in the negotiations and avoid entrenched positions. we must acknowledge that the union is asked to do more and better on its political priorities. this requires a modern budget focused on eu added value, and more resources for programmes contributing, for example, to climate action, research and innovation, digital security, border management, etc. on the other hand, we cannot escape reality. the union will lose an important contributor to the eu budget so that moderate savings in the biggest spending areas – cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy – are inevitable. in the light of those two constraints, what the commission has proposed for the next multiannual financial framework, with an overall level of 1.114% of eu27 gni, is balanced and realistic. i remain convinced that it would be a fair outcome for all. on top of endorsing most of parliament’s position expressed last year, this political resolution also adds a limited number of new elements. first and foremost, let me address the point on the financing of the president—elect’s political guidelines. you will understand that they cannot infringe upon the next college prerogative. however, the commission’s proposal of may last year and the ongoing negotiations already provide a solid framework for these priorities. the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness for the euro area is one element. another one, the rule of law, is an integral part of the next eu long-term budget: eur 120 billion on external action investment, a closer partnership with africa and a strengthening of the european defence fund with a 22—fold increase compared to the current pilot and preparatory actions, which means in absolute figures, from eur 590 million to eur 13 billion. for other initiatives, i cannot anticipate on the detailed content of the new initiatives. it’s essential to continue the mff negotiations with speed and determination. they provide for an opportunity to translate the political guidelines of the president—elect into action and accommodate them within the framework of the mff agreement. we must avoid damaging delays in the launch of the new programmes that are in the clear interest of our regions, our researchers, our small businesses, our farmers and our young people. let me now address the issue of climate change and parliament’s call for a more ambitious quantified target in relation to climate—related expenditure. the commission is committed to delivering on the paris agreement on climate change and to making the union lead by example on the global stage. that’s why we have proposed to set ourselves a high objective and to dedicate 25% of the overall next eu long-term budget, or approximately eur 320 billion, to projects contributing to climate action. that is ambitious and credible too. the target of 25% is based on our experience and on our bottom—up assessment of how much each and every spending programme can actually contribute to climate action. some programmes and funds will contribute significantly to climate action. some others among them – also those for which you propose further reinforcement like the single market, erasmus, creative europe or the european social fund (esf) will not. any target higher than 25% would require a difficult choice. for instance, the climate objective of those programmes that already contribute to climate action could be increased. in practice, this would require mostly much higher targets within the common agricultural policy, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund because of their critical mass in the budget or, in relative terms, the overall share of the budget allocated to programmes that don’t contribute to climate action could be decreased. in practice, this would mostly affect the european social fund and other reinforced or new priorities, such as erasmus, defence, security and border management. that is the harsh mathematical alternative that we are facing. i acknowledge parliament’s intention to exercise its rights fully and i can say that i can relate to the feeling of impatience expressed by some members that, one and a half years after the commission proposal, the council has not yet agreed on its position on the mff. please be assured that the commission is fully committed to facilitating dialogue. we will continue to provide both parliament and the council with the technical information to support transparency, openness and constructive cooperation. finally, the resolution calls on the commission to present a contingency plan for early 2020 to ensure continuity until the next eu long-term budget is agreed. it will be up to the incoming commission to respond to your call but, as you rightly point out, the treaty in its article 312 and also the mff regulation itself, provide the relevant legal framework if an agreement cannot be reached. now is not the time to consider any additional measures. for the moment, our priority and focus must remain to reach a timely agreement on the new multiannual financial framework and sectoral basis acts. finally, let me thank this house for your continuous firm support to reform of the own resources system, to maintaining the flexibility of the mff and to introducing a mechanism aimed at protecting the eu budget in case of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law. i agree with members of this parliament that it’s high time to decide and meet citizens’ expectations. we all have a collective responsibility to agree on the next eu long-term budget on time so that the next generation of programmes is operational on 1 january 2021.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the minister! time is running out! time is running out and universities, businesses, local authorities, students who want to use erasmus are waiting for information on what will happen to the budget after 2020. will there be a budget or not, and what will be the decisions? when will the decisions be made? i think it is worth recalling that the european commission started with both its general scenario report and its proposal in may 2018. it's been a year and a half since that moment. parliament has tried to respond to this proposal very quickly, even though the procedure provided for in the treaty does not give parliament the opportunity to do so at this stage. the european parliament, on the other hand, has presented its position in november, and it is a responsible one, and it is a realistic one. we took all the information and data from what the european commission presented. we didn't create anything. we agreed on new priorities, we agreed that in the future we need to strengthen horizon 2020 as it is today, and we need to strengthen, for example, erasmus. we have said this as a political position, but we believe that so-called traditional policies cannot be reduced to a mechanical one. we are aware of the cost of the uk leaving, but today parliament says: time is running out, we need a decision, not just otherwise friendly and pleasant meetings on the exchange of information. we are ready to cooperate, but we expect cooperation in order to actually give consent in the end.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the next multiannual financial framework in this house and in the committee on budgets for several months now, but in my view the progress seems to be quite insufficient. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i think this is mainly because the next financial framework is not looked at pragmatically and because the majority in this parliament has a totally utopian approach to what the next multiannual financial framework should be. we are asking for a lot more resources, 200 billion more, to finance some programmes and some new priorities. i think that in order to reach an agreement, we need to return to pragmatism and ask ourselves a question: if every time we have to negotiate the budget, the multiannual financial framework, we ask for more resources and the member states do not want to put them in, there is obviously a reason. if an investment is good, i think the funders are happy to put in more resources. if they do not want to do so, the reason is quite obvious, namely that they do not consider the programmes and the lines of expenditure to be efficient in pursuing those objectives. i am particularly concerned about one of the deviations, namely that the next proposal for a multiannual financial framework is permeated with conditionality, conditionality which will make this instrument an anti-democratic instrument and will place the decisions on spending and allocation of funds at the mercy of a few bureaucrats in brussels. last lock on your own resources. we start calling them by their real names: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is not the right approach and we will never reach an agreement on this road to make this instrument a tool for serving the people and not a tool for political blackmail.
for the ecr group mr president, the honourable presidency! mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the title of the resolution is excellent. it is time to meet the expectations of citizens from the multiannual budget. but clearly, these expectations are contradictory. in some countries, a majority of citizens feel that the budget should be higher. in other lands, the idea is that contributions should, of course, be lower and as small as possible. and it is also clear that after the european commission's proposal appeared in several member states, in the cohesion countries, there was actually a dismay at the fact that the overall reduction in expenditure from brexit is already much smaller than what we get from our proposal in the cohesion envelope. respectively, brexit is often blamed as the cause, although it is not the cause. or in agriculture, citizens expect that the compensation payments in the form of direct payments will actually be equalised, because fertilisers or fuel are paid the same in all eu countries. and what mrs von der leyen said about the new initiatives of the european commission is also telling: we have to understand whether additional resources are expected from the new european commission proposal or whether there are other reactions, or whether it squeezes the expenditure of existing projects even more. and finally, even with the position that has grown for development and research, it is clear that the devil is in the details. the question of how this money will be distributed, where it will be deposited, where there will be development and where there will be just the opposite divergence across member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, my group considers the commission's proposals for the new multiannual financial framework to be inadequate and the cuts proposed by the council - even in the commission's slim proposal - to be unacceptable. we also regard as dangerous the delay and the disinterest in the council, which for a year and a half has had a dossier and has not moved forward with it, while parliament has done its job to the fullest. we consider the commission's proposal to be inadequate and the council's position to be unacceptable, not only as regards the size of the budget, where parliament is calling for a more ambitious budget to tackle the climate crisis, to strengthen the social agenda, employment and the shift from austerity to sustainable development, but also as regards the internal allocation of these funds. because it is provocative, unfair and irrational to increase, as mr hahn has admitted, by 22 times the amount of money spent on defence and cut back on the common agricultural policy and cohesion, and not give the money needed to achieve the ambitious targets we have set for tackling the climate crisis.
mr president, the treaty on the european union prevents the allocation of eu budget for defence spending. yet in this financial framework, some eur 27 billion have been allocated to defence, including a 22-fold increase for the european defence fund. outside this budget, using other budgets, member states contribute to the eu peace facility and pesco, as well as the eu defence agency. it is quite clear, despite assurances to the contrary, that the eu is looking to create and build an eu army. the united kingdom wants nothing to do with an eu army, and that is one of the many benefits of leaving the european union. although member states seem to find this money for these defence contributions, only six member states meet their nato obligations to pay 2% of gdp. if wealthy countries like germany and italy cannot meet their obligations for nato, why should they expect nato to come to their assistance in their hour of need if they won’t pay. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you. the best minister tuppurainen! in a minute there is not much good advice that can be given to the finnish presidency, but there are perhaps four. first, we must deal with the hole britain is leaving behind. it will require a little solidarity and a little more money from the member states. secondly, we need the conditions for innovation and technology. that means we have to stick to all the promises we have made so far about funding for research. the third question concerns something that others have also spoken about here, namely the need for investment. the investment gap in europe is alarmingly large, and if we cannot cope with this investment, we cannot cope with the rest of what we have set out to do. the fourth thing is about fair solutions. we have great differences between member states in terms of economic and scientific and technical resources. if we cannot overcome them, we cannot overcome our challenges.
(inaudible) acknowledges that the uk is leaving the eu, and that the uk’s net contribution of eur 75 to 100 billion is not included for the next seven years. due to the repatriation of democracy to the uk, we will not be party to the scrapping of all the rebates, including the uk one, the increase in tax—raising powers of the eu, and the increased spending on a european army. this parliament wants to increase the proposed budget by almost 20%, while the take-home pay for workers has hardly gone up in the last 10 years. (applause in some quarters) that is a disgrace and entirely ignores, with breathtaking arrogance, the realities of your constituents’ lives and struggles. may i suggest that this parliament starts repaying the trust put in it by european taxpayers and takes a leading role in saving the eu taxpayer some money? let’s start with getting rid of the 130 chauffeur-driven limos and having allowances paid on production of receipts, reflecting the normal practice expected in any company across europe. (applause)
madam president, the integrity of our elections is critical for the success in survival of democracy. a uk government report concluded that we cannot say there was no foreign interference in the 2016 referendum. anti-eu articles by russian-backed media containing false information received widespread circulation, and in the uk our party-funding laws suffer terrible loopholes. money can be donated by individuals and also by companies, not only companies in the uk, but those active overseas, and there is no practical way to be sure that money is not originated from another country or even a foreign government. our newspapers are mostly owned by a tiny handful of people, many of whom do not even live in the uk. the need for reform is great. this is an issue on which europe must work together.
madam president, some terrible events this week, both in europe and beyond our borders, remind us that seismic shifts are afoot with respect to what kinds of opinions are normalised. the unspeakable is becoming speakable, the unthinkable is being thought. of the money funding hatred and disruption, some clearly comes from within the eu from our own oligarchical elites, but evidence is growing that some is from foreign sources. we need powerful internal regulations about electoral funding, but we must also address the root causes – the rising inequality, the unseemly wealth of the few in our increasingly cruel and intolerant society – and we need powerful international tools to combat interference by enemies overseas. i’ve signed this resolution and voted in favour because our eu was founded on a politics of friendship. we need to restore the hearts and minds of the european people to allow the voice of peace, of friendship, of unity and diversity, to be heard. that voice needs to come through in every conversation between sister and brother across our continent, but for it to be heard we must adjust the volume on the voices of aggression and fear.
madam president, i want to make the specific point that we mustn’t be complacent about the question of foreign interference and the integrity of our elections. we specifically asked for a special committee of inquiry and this was narrowly defeated today. i very much regret this because colleagues have talked about hard evidence on this issue and that is exactly what we were attempting to do, to ensure that what we do is based on facts and that we protect our elections and the democratic will of our people, both in our member states and indeed in cross-border elections. so this is an extremely important issue, given the increasing influence of disinformation, electoral fraud and reports of foreign interference in many of our member states. despite the fact that we don’t have the special committee, let us ensure that this house, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and our commission –our security commissioner who has begun work on this issue – continue to do so and that we do not fall into complacency on protecting our elections.
madam president, i voted for this amended resolution, but there is one point i would like to make to my colleagues. when we use the word foreign, i think we have to be a bit careful that we are not targeting individuals, as opposed to targeting those whom we should target, which are states and non-state actors from third countries. why do i say that? because we have a climate just now of intolerance across the world and in the eu. i’m a foreigner in my own country, the country i represent in this parliament. we are all foreigners to one another, but we have to try to avoid using this sometimes pejorative term of ‘foreigner’. let me give you one example. we are, in the scottish parliament, putting forward a bill just now to extend the franchise to everybody who lives in scotland to vote. let’s share our democratic values that make sure people can vote whether they are foreigners or not if they live in our states.
madam president, i consider this debate and this resolution on external influence on elections and disinformation in national and european democratic processes to be very important and that is why i supported it. i also think that the part which calls on the european commission to provide more financial and human support to the east stratcom group, which is the group that is responsible for spreading disinformation, to fight against disinformation in this part of europe, is also important. i am glad that the ep adopted this resolution by a large majority.
madam president, i voted against this motion because what does it say to and about voters? it says you were all duped; you had no agency to decide; you did not know what you were voting for. honest misinformation and fake news, we have heard far too much of it in this parliament, including slanderous accusations in uk terms. let me tell you now, brexit voters did not vote because of russian bots, or facebook, but because we believe in sovereignty. i want a warning to my european colleagues about interference in european elections, which is a problem. the eu, sadly, interferes in nation—states’ elections. it interferes when they have referenda. ireland, france, denmark, uk; they say you got it wrong, vote again, vote again, vote again – until we vote your way! and what’s worse is this motion amounts to giving the eu the power to censor what we see and what we read. i vote against this motion because it gives more power to you and it attacks voters.
madam president, i have finally voted in favour of this resolution on the multiannual financial framework, despite my hesitation for exactly the same reasons as those mentioned by the previous speaker, mr lenaers. i supported it because i think the time factor is important here. we wanted to call, and we are calling, on the european council to reach an agreement with the european parliament as soon as possible and to adopt a stable budget, because we all want to finance important programmes such as erasmus, horizon. we want to finance the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, and there is a risk of a certain provisional approach. of course, the decision on own revenues is also a condition for the budget to be realistic. i did not like the substantial increase compared with the commission's proposal of 1.11%, we propose 1.3% and i think there must be a reasonable compromise here.
i have supported the proposed resolution, which is part of the strategy of our institution - the european parliament - to influence the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. the text contains a number of important elements which support the position already expressed by parliament on the volume of the next multiannual financial framework. an important element of this document is undoubtedly the call for an emergency plan. this plan would act as a safety net to protect the beneficiaries and users of the programmes financed by the european union and would allow the current financial framework to be extended in the event that the transaction is not agreed in time.
madam president, let me quote: ‘employees are leaving left, right and centre, being suspended and sacked at every opportunity, it’s an awful environment to work in. the ballot results are in, and we’re going to strike.’ that’s a worker at wilko in my constituency who will take industrial action tomorrow with their trade union, the gmb. wilko’s used to be a good family firm with strong values and a commitment to the local community. sadly, it has moved away from that and i want to give my full support to the workforce at wilko’s taking action tomorrow against new working practices, against new working arrangements, which will force workers to spend less time with their families, more weekend work. this has been imposed on those workers in an atrocious, unfair way, and those workers, their trade union the gmb, taking that action tomorrow, have my full support.
madam president, i would also like to explain why i voted in favour of this report. it contains proposals which i think are important for the european union to support and put pressure on all the countries so that there are no countries with different speeds. in particular, the approach to youth employment: here we already have certain european instruments that member states should have and have the possibility of using to support young people much more, such as erasmus, the european social fund, the european solidarity corps. so it's just a matter of european states being active. equally important are the issues of education, quality, accessibility, mutual recognition of qualifications. i am not in favour of unifying the european unemployment insurance system, but i am in favour of a certain level of coordination and setting common minimum standards. it's important to me.
madam president, i abstained on this motion because despite the great sentiments on tackling unemployment and workers’ rights and benefits, there’s a big ‘but’. the eu likes to tell us that trade union rights and workers’ rights are guaranteed by the eu but that’s fake news. they’ve been historically fought for by millions of ordinary people taking on their bosses and governments, and yet you reduce these struggles to paternalistically handing out rights like crumbs with more bureaucracy added on. and also, isn’t it virtue signalling? how will all this rhetoric about rights go down in greece and italy and so many eurozone countries which have been punished by the eu, which imposed austerity, the misery of poverty and unemployment, and humiliated nation states by telling them they couldn’t decide on their own economic policies? so i abstain because i agree with supporting workers’ rights and unemployment, but i don’t trust you lot to do it, i’m afraid, and i appeal to my fellow europeans who support workers’ rights to not rely on the bureaucrats here in brussels.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after consulting the applicant, i would like to propose a compromise: both objections are technically complicated, and we would of course welcome any hour in which we can discuss this in more detail with experts. but as mr hojsík has said, with bees we need a qualified majority, and that is why we agree to prefer wednesday. i would like to ask for clarification that mr hojsík has not asked for the chromium issue to be included. we do not need a qualified majority, so we can keep it on thursday. if that is the motion, then we can all agree unanimously.
mr. torvalds, are you with me?
yes, we agree.
i have received a request from the ecr group and from a group of members equal to at least the minimum threshold to put an oral question on the functioning of the internal market as the first item on the agenda for thursday morning.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament of the previous term adopted the mobility package, while at the same time greatly changing the original proposal of the european commission. now the tripartite negotiations are being conducted without thinking about how the new rules would affect the european internal market, the number of jobs and finally prices, because the introduction of this package will certainly cause prices to rise. we would like the european commission to present to us the implications of implementing the package, hence our request for a debate. i have a motion to call a roll call on this.
this time, it wasn't a roll call, it was a check. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
thank you, we'll check your request and let you know. the agenda, as amended, is hereby approved.
the next item is the commission statement on the impact of the bankruptcy of the thomas cook group (2019/2854 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission is deeply concerned by the recent insolvency of thomas cook. tourism is an important economic activity for the european union. it contributes – directly and indirectly – 10% of eu gdp and employs more than 25 million people. this equals 11% of total eu employment. for some european regions, tourism is even the main economic activity. the tourism sector is also much interlinked with other economic activities. one euro of value added in tourism results in 56 cents’ value added upstream, and in this sector there are not only big players: out of the 2.2 million enterprises active in tourism, 90% are small or medium-sized enterprises. the combination of these factors makes the tourism industry not only complex, but also tightly connected with, and affecting, other areas of the economy. the unfortunate insolvency of thomas cook exemplifies this well: it shows once more that tourism and the travel industry require an integrated approach across different european policies. we are in contact with the member states to assess the impacts in terms of the numbers of businesses, jobs and travellers affected in their constituency, and to share information about the european support available to help address such impacts. european instruments are available under different policy areas and may be mobilised to support member states. first, we can help avoid negative impacts on the people affected by job losses. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a strong demonstration of european solidarity: it provides assistance to dismissed workers to help them find new employment, on top of what public employment services offer. the egf may be triggered by member states under certain conditions and the commission stands ready to help the member states concerned. furthermore, the european social fund may support actions to help dismissed workers for retraining, reskilling and job counselling. second, other cohesion policy instruments may help affected regions. the european regional development fund (erdf) in particular can be instrumental in helping regions that face problems of industrial transition, digitalisation, globalisation, decarbonisation natural disasters or regions that need to diversify – for instance, by avoiding too strong a dependence on the tourism sector. the erdf support is available via the relevant national and regional managing authorities, in line with the respective operational programmes. third, european state—aid rules give member states flexibility to support companies facing acute liquidity shortages due to unforeseen circumstances. in particular, member states can create schemes supporting smes which face financial difficulties. any scheme has, of course, to be notified to the commission and be approved. fourth, on the question of travellers’ rights, the directive on package travel obliges organisers such as tour operators to have insolvency protection to ensure the repatriation of travellers to their place of departure and the reimbursement of the travel services not yet performed, free of charge for the affected travellers. repatriation worked well for all the thomas cook travellers. the commission is currently evaluating how member states transposed the directive on package travel, and its focus is in particular on the effectiveness of the insolvency protection schemes. we will report to the council and to the european parliament, of course, by january 2021. let me also recall our proposed revision of the passengers’ rights regulation – eu regulation 261/2004. with that revision, we aim at improving the effectiveness and consistent enforcement of passengers’ rights, while better taking into account the financial capacities of the air carriers. this proposal, which is still in the interinstitutional procedure, does not provide for any specific rules in the case of airline insolvencies. with its 2013 communication on passenger protection in the event of airline insolvency, the commission proposed a number of soft measures. it is worth pointing out some tools in place to mitigate the negative impacts of insolvencies on passengers, such as an industry commitment to provide rescue fares to passengers, which was indeed triggered on several occasions. furthermore, national authorities have, in some cases, been actively engaging in ensuring the repatriation of stranded passengers. however, the commission is aware of the difficulties passengers may still face in asserting their rights ahead of, or during, insolvency proceedings. in the light of the recent experiences and mechanisms in place, the commission is currently examining options and a possible follow-up of the 2013 commission communication on passengers’ protection in the event of airline insolvency.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, today we have brought to this house, on the initiative of the people's group, the debate for the house to reflect on the bankruptcy of thomas cook, a company that has survived two world wars, 178 years of history, but has not overcome the adaptation to digitisation, the uncertainties of brexit and the future of this new world of the 21st century. we have to think about it, because in the end it was a company with 105 planes, more than 200 hotels and more than 500 agencies, almost all of them in the united kingdom, 22 000 employees. my region, the balearic islands, is one of the regions - along with the canary islands, andalusia and catalonia - most affected by this bankruptcy, not only because of the loss of jobs, but also because of the number of people, tourists, who stayed on the islands themselves on those days. i would also like to say that this bankruptcy is causing problems not only in hotels but also in the service sector, in the transport sector and in the whole economy in general. it is therefore necessary to ask this commission, this parliament, to have a serious and in-depth debate and reflection on tourism; a strategy - as the sector is calling for - on tourism, a truly european strategy, which will help us to meet the challenges of digitalisation, which is changing at the speed of light; we need to make a tourism strategy in a sector which represents more than 4% of the gdp of the european union. we must also consider how to prepare the european economy to absorb the collapse of large companies and its possible after-effects, which are many and varied. i also want to speak about consumer rights. we need more prevention in this crisis, but we also need more coordination. there have been flashes of light and shadows in the member states in dealing with this bankruptcy; there has been a lack of coordination, particularly in my autonomous community, the balearic islands. but above all we must think about the protection of certain agents and assets in the event of bankruptcy. i trust that commissioner thyssen, who has a special sensitivity, will be able to mobilise the funds - the european social fund, the erdf, the european globalisation adjustment fund - and that europe will help the member states to mitigate the human impact in this important sector, which is tourism.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would also like to express my solidarity with the affected employees of thomas cook and the many passengers who suffered the negative consequences of thomas cook's bankruptcy in september. thomas cook was a huge company for decades, bringing many, many travellers across europe and the world, but it's not anymore. but the bankruptcy also shows us that we are simply not in europe with the rules needed to protect consumers and workers. and we know that many companies - both travel agencies and airlines - are going bankrupt all the time. since 2017, 32 airlines have gone bankrupt with a bearing on us here in europe. we simply do not have enough legislation in place. and then it's good that we have funds and everything that can help, it's of course better than nothing. but we social democrats want to have our legislation tightened up and improved in this area. we believe that a comprehensive and comprehensive approach is needed to our airlines, our travel agencies in europe. it must be safe to travel in europe and it must be safe to work in europe. and it turns out that this has not been the case for the many people who have worked for thomas cook and who have used the travel company. that is why we believe that something more needs to be done. firstly, our air passenger rights must be better - the commissioner said so too, and it is regrettable that we have not made progress on this. the european parliament has dealt with the matter and we have our proposals. now we have to get the council moving. but we also believe that more is needed. we also need to be able to see whether we should not intervene at european level to help when companies of this size go bankrupt and affect so many people. so more action is needed than we have seen at the present time to make our consumers and our workers safer when they travel in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, while thousands of holidaymakers were grounded and 21 000 staff lost their jobs, a wealthy elite were flying high from the collapse of thomas cook. for some hedge fund managers and financial speculators, this was just another business opportunity. two companies in particular scooped up over gbp 200 million as thomas cook went under. these vulture capitalists make rich pickings by investing in financial products that pay out when a company defaults on its debts, as was the case with thomas cook. but aside from this perversity of capitalism, we should also consider how thomas cook arrived at this destination. the company cited heatwaves and uncertainty over brexit among the factors in its collapse. so the two biggest issues of our time, the climate emergency and brexit, played a part. it’s low-cost flights that are fuelling the heating of our planet, which in turn is making popular destinations in europe unbearable at peak holiday times. now, tackling climate change will involve new patterns of travel and different types of holiday: overland travel and more stay-cations will have to replace the existing model. and lamenting the loss of jobs in the old system must go hand-in-hand with a properly funded transition to a more secure future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – can i ask ms rowett what empirical proof she has that low-cost airlines in particular affect the climate. and my second question to her is: why would you like to deprive the people who can least afford it the opportunity of a cheap holiday with low—cost airlines? (applause)
blue-card answer. – low-cost airlines don’t adequately measure the effect of aviation on the climate, so it’s low-cost ones that are particularly encouraging more flights than we can afford in this climate crisis. and i’m not proposing that we should have no holidays, i’m proposing that we should have adequate transport that is affordable, and not making the climate fry.
madam president, commissioner, i am grateful for all that you have come to explain to us here in the european parliament on this subject which is so dear to us. the committee on transport and tourism has on several occasions in this house spoken of the challenges facing the sector. it has stated the need to review a strategy for tourism which is updated, which takes account of digitalisation, as has been mentioned here, but which also takes account of climate change and the new challenges facing this sector, which is so important for the various member states of europe, but for the european destination as a whole. what we are discussing here today in relation to the bankruptcy of thomas cook, a truly british tour operator, has to do with the impact it has had on this sector, on tourism, on the people who have been stranded in some countries, as was the case here in spain, portugal, where it affected madeira and also the algarve, and we really have to quantify and see the extent of the effect of this bankruptcy. we need to review how we are going to support the small and mediumsized enterprises linked to the sector, how we are going to support consumers in the rights of passengers who have faced serious situations in the face of these bankruptcy scenarios and how we are going to cooperate with this very important sector. the loss of air capacity clearly puts several european destinations at risk and we must be aware of all these circumstances.
madam president, commissioner, the bankruptcy of thomas cook affects the whole of europe, and it left more than half a million european citizens stuck in various countries in europe. this shows the importance of insolvency protection and of guaranteed cover of refunds and reparations if organisers go bankrupt. neckermann, as thomas cook is known in my country, managed to take czech citizens home immediately, and covered refunds from their insurance protection without taking money from the guarantee fund. they will also provide holidays for those customers who had already paid for their trips. this should be seen as an example of how to handle the situation of bankruptcy without harming the citizens, and minimising their losses. as we have heard today, this is far from being the case everywhere in europe, and there will be cases where the guarantee funds established by the package travel directive are needed. the important thing is to take care of all eu citizens affected by the bankruptcy of thomas cook and its subsidiaries. this situation proves that the package travel directive is working – but maybe we can do better. in two years’ time, the directive will be up for revision. i hope we can learn from this occasion and see where further improvements should be introduced.
madam president, someone could look at this aspect of our plenary session. it’s necessary to have action and reaction and i think that, under our rules, it is possible to ask a colleague a question. if someone is speaking about some proposal that he could change, you can ask him how he could change it. i think, in future, it will be much better if you respect this provision. i might be on my political group’s speaking list five times, but this is about the possibility, under the rules, of asking a question of a colleague. thank you for respecting it.
colleague, i think you are completely right that it’s our duty to make this plenary a living example of our debates, and we need debate. but this is actually a new idea, so let me communicate it to the president and to my colleagues in the bureau so that we can see if that can be done. thank you very much for your understanding and for your inspiration.
mr president, the bankruptcy of thomas cook has shaken the whole of europe a little. there's a buyer now, and we're all hoping for a solid, innovative start. but i'd like to take a different view of this incident than what's happened so far, and that's this: we have a clear productivity problem in europe. productivity growth has been declining for years and has now reached almost zero. this has very important consequences for job growth, economic growth and public finances. increasingly, research shows a link between low interest rates and falling productivity; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit. thomas cook is clearly one of them. i think it is high time that we also started to look at the low interest rate policy from this perspective.
madam president, almost a month after thomas cook declared bankruptcy, the large german, french and british groups, with their subsidies, privileges and tax exemptions, are competing with the subsidiaries of the bankrupt group for the benefit of the customer base, the assets and even the slots at thomas cook's british airports. but at the same time, the workers of both thomas cook and its affiliates in greece, on meager wages and grueling hours without days off, have made it through the season and today they are literally still on the air, without any substantial support from the greek government and the european union. it is confirmed that the path of development that serves the profits of the groups is multiply harmful to the workers, the self-employed, the people who, even on their holidays, pay for the marble. we now demand that the full employment and social security rights of the workers affected be guaranteed immediately and unconditionally, with full compensation for those affected.
madam president, 600 000 consumers are affected, 22 000 direct jobs are destroyed and hundreds of thousands of indirect jobs are affected. thomas cook recorded a loss of gbp 1.5 billion (about eur 1 680 million) in may, corresponding to the first half of the current financial year alone. with this resolution, which we in the epp group are putting forward, we want to make it clear that the european union still does not have a clear voice in the field of tourism, something we have been repeatedly calling for for some time. we need a frank debate with the commission on this sector which is so important for the economy and employment of the european union, representing 4% of our gdp and 5% of direct employment. the thomas cook case also highlights the need to strengthen consumer rights in the event of bankruptcy. the citizens who have bought their plane tickets from thomas cook are unprotected, and this is a reality we must face. the european parliament put this forward at first reading in its amendment to regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on air passenger rights. this procedure has been blocked in the council for four years. some member states have used various arguments as an excuse for not making progress on this regulation. let's stop making excuses. it's time to act. let us use this disaster as an opportunity to launch a broad debate on consumer protection and thus speed up the tendering procedures for obtaining the corresponding compensation. with this resolution we ask the commission to take this matter seriously once and for all, as it shows the weakness of consumers and smes in the face of bankruptcies which could have been avoided or at least minimised.
madam president, madam commissioner, the thomas cook crisis is a new opportunity to demonstrate to europeans, and particularly to the british, the advantages of belonging to the union. we have a strong and comprehensive legislation to guarantee the rights of passengers and tourist customers. we must use all its powers to compensate the 600 000 people affected and to prevent the effects of this bankruptcy in areas such as the canary islands and the balearic islands, which already had the positive impact of hundreds of thousands of reservoirs in the air today. the european globalisation adjustment fund should also be activated to train affected workers for rapid relocation and to support those who decide to enter a sector they dominate and to which they can contribute with digitalisation and personalised offers. the european tourist attraction has an opportunity in that knowledge. finally, we must do some self-criticism, because this "chronicle of an announced death" caught those responsible in the sector lying about the health of the patient. i hope, finally, that it will illustrate to the brexiters how much they have been lied to by those who are betting on moving away from the european framework of security and guarantees.
colleagues, i have to point out that we have had several speakers who speak too fast for the interpreters. i don’t know if it’s a pattern, but very often i’ve had to give this reminder to spanish colleagues from the spanish language. maybe there’s something about your way of putting a lot of information into a very short sequence.
madam president, british people work extremely hard to put a roof over their heads and to provide for their families’ security. an annual holiday is something that everybody looks forward to and saves for all year. therefore, i am incredibly sympathetic to those people whose holidays were ruined by the collapse of thomas cook. it was a huge operation, employing 22 000 staff, with 19 million customers. but it collapsed because it didn’t innovate and it was underpinned by poor management. it rewarded failure by paying the then-chief executive and directors millions of pounds in pay and bonuses, and 150 000 holidaymakers were stranded around the world, forcing the uk taxpayer to pick up that bill of repatriation costing gbp 100 million. the bigger question is: why are we talking about it here in the eu parliament? isn’t this just more eu meddling? this is mission-creep, because if the eu thinks it should be involved then it shouldn’t just be the uk taxpayer picking up the bill. perhaps the eu would like to put its money where its mouth is, and perhaps the eu would like to cough up some hard cash to compensate.
madam president, commissioner, the bankruptcy of thomas cook is of course due to management errors, poorly controlled external growth, but above all to the impossibility of moving towards the digital economy in the right way for a service company, and moreover, at a time when customers are changing their habits and are now proceeding to direct consultations, dry flights, dry services in the field of hospitality and leisure. so there's a transformation of the digital economy behind this bankruptcy that we should be looking at. it must be said that a cash deficit of 300 million, which probably leads to more than 10 billion in indirect damage, still raises questions about the capacity to take precautionary measures. finally, for an economic sector enshrined in the treaties, which accounts for 10% of the union's gross domestic product and is a key structural element in many fragile peripheral regions, can it be accepted that it has no budget, no budget line in the union and that it is always the poor relative of our parliamentary work?
madam president, founded in 1841, the world’s oldest travel agent, thomas cook, was once a great british success story. but like many out of touch businesses, it went into a tailspin as customers migrated to the internet. yet what was truly grotesque was that its overpaid directors, who paid themselves gbp 47 million in bonuses over the last 10 years, attempted to put their own ineptitude on brexit uncertainty. this anti-brexit propaganda was duly lapped up by our pro-remain media and politicians. we shouldn’t be surprised. economically illiterate, pro-eu politicians in the labour party suggested that the british government should have bailed out thomas cook, completely failing to realise that even if mps had wanted to, eu competition law would have prohibited such an intervention. their beloved eu is part of the problem, not part of the solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question posed by the blue card. can you please explain to half a billion european citizens how the european commission, or the european union, is to blame for the collapse of thomas cook? can you tell us how we as the european union have warned your citizens against travelling to egypt or other destinations where citizens from all over the european union travel? but it was your government that warned of these destinations. don't you think the european union is also responsible for the stain on your tie after lunch today? thank you for your answer.
blue-card answer. – i think it needs to be made fundamentally clear: i have said that even if the british government or the british parliament wanted to bail out thomas cook, it would not have been able to do so under eu state—aid legislation. that was my point. i think what you’re trying to do is turn this around into some kind of anti-‘us’ effort. i think you need to understand that your own legislation would not have been able to save thomas cook.
madam president, the collapse of thomas cook will go down as one of the economic tragedies of our time. the loss of 21 000 jobs will mean hundreds of thousands will suffer across europe in related jobs, and the families of those employed. the damage to the material and mental well-being of thomas cook employees and contractors and their dependants is huge. but we need to offer more than sympathy and nice words. they will not pay the rent for those who have lost their jobs. we need to offer support and training for those workers facing unemployment. we need to offer support and help to those who could create jobs and new businesses to replace those that have been lost. we also need to legislate so that no company can collapse from one day to the next, stranding people all over the world and causing huge distress. we must finish the digital single market and ensure that no european business is faced with the scenario where they have no incentive to digitise. the tourism industry is changing. in my constituency in cornwall, it employs one in five people. but cheap flights, online booking and airbnb are all challenging traditional companies. we must ensure we create the right environment to support this changing industry while protecting the beautiful destinations of europe from ruin, threatened by mass tourism.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the big problem in germany is that auschwitz has been made a yardstick for jew-hatred. anything less than auschwitz could walk underneath it for decades, so to speak. this "return to the beginning", this "never again" has long since become a phrase. this was recently written by journalist richard schneider in the weekly newspaper die zeit, and this sentence should apply throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you: how can we still talk about confused individual perpetrators after the attacks on synagogues in the 1990s, after breivik, after the attacks in paris and brussels, after the nsu trials in germany? just today there was another arson attack on a mosque in dortmund. if politicians are talking about sudden warning signs after the events in halle, they have apparently been sound asleep for decades. because anti-semitism and racism have never disappeared from the heart of society. in reality, we are facing a decade of political failure in which even anti-fascists are being vilified. the best example is mr meuthen. from education to politics, blindness in the right eye is unmistakable. not just today, but the day before yesterday. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. violence in language becomes violence in the streets, and shame and incitement and hatred are eroding our democracies. we must fight anti-semitism and racism in a comprehensive, educational and sustainable way, and not only on the internet. the only thing that will help is not individual measures, but more money in education, democracy, integration and exit projects. we owe this not only to the victims of halle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, thank you for the debate today on extremism and the growing anti-semitism in europe. just under two weeks ago there was this terrible, terrible armed attack on a synagogue in halle, in which, as you know, two people were murdered. this cruel attack shows once again that we must do everything to protect jewish life in germany, and not only in germany, but also in other european member states. because anti-semitism is again on the rise in many european countries. grave stones in jewish cemeteries are smeared with swastikas, neo-nazis march through one city or another, displaying hitler salutes and chanting anti-semitic slogans. and this is just a small part of what we experience every day. we had charlotte knobloch with us earlier this year at the brussels plenary session on the occasion of the international holocaust remembrance day. she confirmed that anti-semitism is returning not only in germany but throughout europe, and that jewish citizens no longer feel safe and are thinking of emigrating. we cannot accept that hatred of jews is once again becoming the norm in europe. if our fellow jews no longer feel safe, we have failed. we must launch a new european initiative against anti-semitism and right-wing extremism. firstly, the internet is not a free space: those who incite against minorities should also bear the consequences. secondly, we must educate our youth, our young people, and thirdly, and i would like to stress this, we must identify the parties and their representatives which foment hatred and exclusion and thus prepare the intellectual breeding ground for anti-semitism. mr meuthen has left . he is right that extremism from the right and the left must be fought, but when representatives of his party call the holocaust memorial in berlin a monument of shame, then we know what has happened.
the murder in halle is a drastic symptom of the wave of anti-semitism that has been rising for a long time in germany, but also in france. today it is better not to manifest jewish identity in berlin or paris and please do not say that this is the case everywhere in europe. i wish my german colleagues would take care of their country. it is also worth recalling the murders committed by the national socialist underground in germany and the role of the services in this matter, which has not been clarified so far. we have a problem of radicalisation on both sides, left and right. in germany, for example, there is a growing threat to freedom of speech and academic freedom, and attacks on university professors are on the rise. the last one was our colleague from the previous term, bernard lucke. in france, we have had cases of disproportionate use of force against the yellow vests movement. the burning of people in the streets of many european cities is something we see in the news every day, but as frans timmermans convinces us, it's all legal. so we can calmly discuss the issue of sex education for poles.
madam president, the rise of the far right is a dangerous reality that points us back to the worst ghosts in europe. but there is something at least as dangerous, and that is how the far-right agenda, the proposals and the codes of the far-right are being bought by the big parties of the grand neoliberal coalition. in catalonia, in france and in the mediterranean, exceptionalism has become the alibi for the curtailment of rights and freedoms, while the far right has been normalized. european politics is now experiencing an accelerated 'penisation' which is endangering democracy. democracy has been defended and won on this continent since the days of anti-fascism. let's remember that. just as it is not enough today to get franco out of the valley of the fallen, but it is necessary to get francoism out of the spanish institutions, in europe what is urgent is to combat the policies of the extreme right and their violence regardless of the initials under which they hide. that's why it's more important than ever to raise the cry again of "they won't pass!"
madam president, the attack in halle is horrific. it is so shocking that so many celebrating yom kippur, so many jewish institutions, now need police protection. but i have a number of concerns about how we react: we shouldn’t be too simplistic. to those who say anti-semitism is confined to the extreme right, i have to say – as somebody on the left in british politics – that, to my shame, anti-semitism is far too much of a factor in left-wing organisations there. i don’t say that to score left-right tit—for—tat points, but simply to just not point fingers and to be honest. i also say that, while it’s very tempting when we see extreme violence of this nature to clamp down, i would urge the german authorities and the people in this parliament in relation to their nation states not to call for bans or attacks on free speech. the clamping—down on anything in the name of hate speech might be what the eu does, but it should not be what freedom-lovers do. and i say to my colleagues in parliament: you should be careful about bandying around accusations of hate speech to anyone who disagrees with you: the real hate—speech—mongers are the murderers and the extremists, whereas some of us who get labelled with those labels are actually the lovers of freedom and the fighters against anti-semitism and against all forms of racism and discrimination. (applause)
blue-card question. – i just think it is really interesting when i hear statements like the one that you have made. as a gay black man, i have been branded as a racist, homophobe, nazi... by people that sit on the other side of the chamber. i just think it is really hypocritical that you would say such things, and it is divisive. this isn’t about community, this isn’t about what you claim makes europe. this is about nastiness, this is about racism, this is about creating hate – which is what we’re not about on this side of the chamber. so i suggest that you look at yourself and reflect on what you’re saying before you use this language, because the danger is that the language you are using when the real nazis come along, when the real racists come along, you will not be able to identify them.
madam president, at the same moment that a murderer was shooting at the doors of a synagogue in halle on yom kippur, the holiest day of my year, i was standing outside the doors of my own synagogue in london wearing a bullet-proof vest, assisting with the security of my own community. tragically, jewish people around the world must still protect ourselves from attack only two generations after the holocaust, of which my own father is a survivor. anti-semitism is a stain on our society, but also a warning sign. but what is the cause of the upsurge now? racism and extremism grow when people are resentful at the failure of economics and democracy. the reason i joined the brexit party was not because of sovereignty or immigration or bureaucracy, but because i fear the dangerous road that europe is heading down. its dysfunctional and damaging euro currency and the desire for empire has led to the most extreme europe of any time since world war ii, on both right and left. this may be my last speech in this house, so be warned. the urgent priority facing this institution is a renewal, as a partnership of independent free nations, by celebrating, not obstructing, the dreams of the people we represent.
president. - last summer the european union agency for fundamental rights published a report. it shows that over the past five years anti-semitism has increased sharply in europe. almost 30% of the jews in the european union have been seriously harassed in the past 12 months because of their jewish origin. almost 38% of the respondents to this survey indicated that they were thinking of emigrating away from europe. the recent attack in halle has unfortunately confirmed these figures and findings. the figures are quite alarming and we are talking a lot about the democratic rule of law here. it is therefore essential that the new european commission makes anti-semitism a priority of its policy. there are many ways to do this, for example: encourage member states to guarantee the security of jewish communities and, if necessary, to pay for security; encourage member states to include the holocaust, anti-semitism and the history of judaism in europe in all education programmes; and last but not least, the new european commission must make the fight against anti-semitism its main concern. that means that commissioner von der leyen, as president, should put the eu coordinator for the fight against anti-semitism under her personal responsibility. we cannot, as the european union, ignore the horrifying development of anti-semitism.
madam president, first i want to offer my condolences to all those affected by the synagogue attack in halle, especially the families of the two people who were killed. no words can ever heal their suffering, but i know that the whole of the european parliament stands with you today. the recent act of terror in halle is yet another appalling pre-meditated attack on the jewish community. anti-semitism and the threat of right-wing extremism is, sadly, on the rise across europe. france reported a 74% increase, germany more than 60%, and 10% in the uk. this is the highest number in the uk since records began in 1984, with the anti-terror ‘prevent’ programme reporting a shocking 36% increase in far-right cases in 2018. i represent more than 30 0001 jewish constituents in the north-west of england, and i know we cannot be complacent. the best way to tackle anti-semitism is through intercultural dialogue, education, and a zero-tolerance policy regarding anti-semitic acts or use of language, and i am proud of our manchester muslim jewish forum. reconciliation between the peoples of europe, peaceful development on the basis of indivisible and universal human rights, genuine democracy and pluralism: these did and must always underpin our vision for a shared europe. we must draw on the lessons of a shameful past which brought tyranny to our continent. a nation and a continent that forgets its past has no future. 1 figure corrected at the request of the speaker(the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from lance forman)
madam president, jana and kevin are the victims of the halle bombing. a woman in her 40s who enjoyed pop music. he, a young painter of twenty. life and projects wiped out by a hate-filled killer. he fired. but there is a breeding ground that animates such actions. we must denounce right-wing extremism and anti-semitism. but we also have to change the "how". the qué is the discourse of the irresponsible who get votes by fabricating others, hateful, different, expendable. we must prevent, investigate, but we must also remember what this right-wing extremism and anti-semitism has brought us in the past. the "how" is the talking busts, the reciters who never listen. to them, peace and the word. dialogue, pluralism and empathy are the key elements of this process. in that frame there are no "others". we live with people with rights, human beings like jana, kevin, mohamed or salom.
madam president, friends, as-salamu alaykum. i would like to start by sending my deepest condolences and extend my unwavering eternal solidarity to the jewish community, especially those who have been attacked or affected in the cruel, blood-thirsty act of far-right terror in halle. it makes me angry. beyond angry. angry because we are here again, and angry because we have to be angry again. just how much longer do religious minorities have to scream into the indifferent face of europe, screaming stop? stop normalising the far right. stop entertaining them. stop being seduced by polling numbers, voting patterns and political expediency. the thing is, when we degrade racial, ethnic and religious minorities to justify deadly borders, approval ratings and foreign military interventions, we threaten the lives and well-being of all our citizens. so let me put it simply: a religious attack on our jewish brothers and sisters, as well as our muslim brothers and sisters, is an attack on all of us. so to the toxic section of the european press, to the hateful, inactive and indifferent politicians, and to the online merchants of dehumanisation: in a fairer world, you would be charged as a co-defendant of every hate crime. so let us promise to degrade and defeat the forces of the far right, and to protect our jewish siblings, muslim siblings and all our other siblings from religious minorities, whether that be on the streets, in prayer, or in every single city, town and village across europe.
madam president, the violent right-wing extremism which was expressed in the halle attacks must be fought without any respite, but also with the awareness that it is an integral part of an ongoing process of the resurgence of the far right and fascist forces in europe. a process that has causes and responsible. it is inseparable from policies which attack social and labour rights, national sovereignty, democracy, from pro-big business policies which aggravate social injustice and inequality, that is to say, also from the policies which the european union has been promoting. the same european union that is engaged in an abject and dangerous historical revisionism of which the whitewashing of fascism is an integral part, the deplorable attempt to equate communism and fascism, thus minimizing the crimes of fascism, equating victims and executioners, erasing the role of communists and other democrats in the struggle for freedom and democracy. this too must be fought. there can be no tolerance or complacency for an ideology that belongs in the dustbin of history and must not leave it.
madam president, i too would like to express my deepest condolences to the victims of the attack in halle and of course respect for the jewish people and the jewish community in europe. i mean, the rise of dangerous ideologies is really worrying in europe, and at the same time condemning any extremism. he's dangerous, whether he's really right-wing or left-wing. in our european legal culture, we have a binding charter of human rights that guarantees freedom of religion, and let's look at how this freedom is actually guaranteed, that some jewish groups are afraid to profess their faith, for example here in france. that's really alarming. the holocaust: how many young people today don't know what the holocaust was and how it manifested itself. we have holocaust deniers here, lecturing happily all over europe. this really needs to stop. we need to monitor these abusive behaviors and we need to share this information with law enforcement.
madam president, i too, like everybody in this room, was appalled by the murders in halle and elsewhere, and i offer my deep, deep condolences to the families engaged. but i want to remind the european parliament that last month, in this very place, we debated remembrance for the eu to build a common historical narrative, and our colleague, mr nicholas fest, sitting just over there, reminded us that the motion that we were debating had forgotten to remember the holocaust, and he proposed an amendment that it be inserted into that motion. and despite support from this side and many other meps, many left-wing groups rejected this, and that motion was not carried. what signal does that send, when the very parliament of europe turns its back on remembering the holocaust? we need to not just speak; we need to make sure that our actions and our beliefs count in this house too.
mr president, i would like to say to commissioner king that this subject is not just about teaching, it’s about equality, dignity and children’s rights, which are fundamental rights and values of the eu contained within the eu charter of fundamental rights. one of the most fundamental duties of any society is to teach its youth about equality and healthy relationships. healthy relationships means learning to respect each other and to treat each other with equality and dignity. we all share this duty as parents, educators and legislators – and the eu as well – to empower future generations to learn about themselves, their bodies, their rights and their autonomy. to deny children’s right to knowledge and inhibit their own bodily autonomy would undermine and seriously restrict their rights. to criminalise the teaching of sexual health and education to under-18s is deeply alarming. it requires that children pay the price for regressive political views, which are not their own, at a cost of their health, well—being and fundamental rights. this bill targets lgbt+ and women’s rights in particular, as it violates poland’s commitments to international agreements on women’s rights, the istanbul convention and cedaw. the criminal law has no place here. the european parliament must condemn this bill and renew its effort to protect women, girls and lgbt citizens from the growing backlash against equality, dignity and sexual and reproductive health and rights. (the speaker decline to take a blue—card question from patryk jaki)
mr president, friends, as-salamu alaykum. i don’t care where you place yourself on the ideological spectrum. i don’t care how you came into power or why you came into power. if you have any influence in any sense, to be in politics in the 21st century is to be in the collective war room of humanity against environmental catastrophe. so let me say this as clearly as possible: climate justice is empty without social justice. the front lines are in the marginalised edges of global power. it is the poor, the more vulnerable, those beyond the easy embrace of development who will pay the catastrophic consequences of a world spinning its way into oblivion. so i salute those who are shaking us. i salute the climate strikers skipping school to save school, the extinction rebels disrupting indifference, and the countless young activists like isra hirsi and xiye bastida who are proving no one is ever too small to make a difference. but most important of all, i salute the countless unnamed activists of the global south, fighting for their way of life in the face of the consequences of corporate greed. our victory is a victory of humanity and we must be diverse in voices, strategies and actions, and we must act now.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this gives me a feeling of déjà vu. even the brits use french to describe this situation. we’ve been here before. that was in november 2018. we had a european council celebrating an agreement with the then british prime minister. we know what the british parliament failed to do with that agreement. so we are back in the same place with a variant of that agreement. now everything is in the hands of the house of commons and the house of lords. the british parliament must make up its mind. either it ratifies – and i insist it ratifies, not expresses broad agreement – this agreement and then indeed our parliament will do its job. i cannot imagine, mr president of the council, that the council will not allow this parliament to have the time needed to complete the ratification. i know that the heads of state and government have a lot of respect for this parliament. even if we have frictions sometimes, i know that there’s mutual respect and i want to keep it that way. (applause)now, it can also be that the british parliament refuses to ratify this agreement, and in that case i would just say one thing: if you are unable or unwilling to do it, dear colleagues of the british parliament, then you must have the guts to put either this agreement or the agreement concluded between the european union and theresa may to a popular vote and let the people decide. (applause)and i would say that actually this is the only certain way to get to a decision because we know that, either way, we will have a british choice, and we will respect this choice. we will fight for the united kingdom to remain, but if a majority accepts the agreement, we will respect that and part ways in a friendly way. je voudrais dire quelques mots sur la question de l’élargissement. pour nous, il est absolument clair que les balkans occidentaux ont vocation à intégrer l’union européenne. je pense qu’il n’est dans l’intérêt de personne, ni des citoyens de ces pays, ni des citoyens de l’union européenne de laisser ces pays dans les limbes dont on sait qu’elles sont le meilleur moyen pour ces pays de sombrer hors de la zone de la démocratie et de l’état de droit. leur vocation à rejoindre l’union européenne est pour nous indiscutable. la décision prise par le conseil – et, monsieur tusk et monsieur juncker, je suis heureux de vous avoir entendus le dire –, le refus de respecter nos engagements, parce qu’il s’agissait bien de respecter nos engagements en ouvrant les négociations avec la macédoine du nord et l’albanie, est un abandon de poste, est une faute. c’est une faute grave de la part du conseil européen qui, évidemment, avait besoin de l’unanimité. je sais que la majorité des membres du conseil voulait aller de l’avant mais, en effet, et manfred weber a eu raison de le dire, ce sont en particulier deux chefs d’état ou de gouvernement qui ont pris la décision de bloquer cela. j’insiste sur le fait qu’il s’agissait d’ouvrir des négociations, pas de conclure des négociations. tout l’argumentaire disant qu’il faut d’abord approfondir l’union est évidemment complètement fallacieux, puisqu’on sait que ces négociations d’adhésion vont durer longtemps et nous laissent tout le temps nécessaire pour approfondir l’union, à condition bien sûr qu’il y ait la volonté politique pour le faire. rappelez-vous, quand emmanuel macron a été élu, on célébrait le grand européen. peut-être qu’au fil des années, le temps qui passe nous fait réaliser qu’il n’est peut-être pas si grand et pas si européen que cela.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, turkey was a major focus of the discussions at the last council meeting. for the last 45 years, it has been occupying a part of cyprus, a member state which is not defended against the constant aggression of turkey, which is increasing illegal drilling in cypriot territorial waters. turkey has been conducting an illegal military operation in northern syria for several weeks, in violation of all rules of international law. this military action obviously ends up strengthening the jihadist groups, whether daesh or al-nusra. yet the european union has spent €5.6 billion on migration policy in recent years, even though turkey is not doing its job of controlling migration flows and mr erdogan is increasing blackmail by constantly threatening european countries with floods of migrants. we have paid almost €9 billion in pre-accession funds and today, instead of making some protests, instead of temporarily suspending turkey's accession to the european union, it is time, it is urgent, to put a definitive end to this accession process. turkey is not european by its history, culture or geography and today it is demonstrating that it is defending interests which are opposed to all our interests as european nations. the council also discussed the multiannual financial framework. we have talked about own resources and, of course, we have mentioned taxes as solutions to own resources: a carbon tax, a plastic tax. today, taxation is increasingly burdensome, always under the same pretext: the ecological pretext. but what is the coherence, on the one hand, of having trade agreements that lower customs duties, of multiplying free trade agreements with the whole world with countries that do not respect any of our environmental standards and, at the same time, adding an extra layer to the tax mixture, which will both weigh on the global competitiveness of our european companies and deal a severe blow to the purchasing power of our fellow citizens? the european union budget can be summed up as paying more and more for less and less. my country, france, has given nearly 100 billion euros over the last 20 years, and what is the result today? a reduction in cap allocations, which will end or, in any case, seriously weaken french agriculture. a french farmer commits suicide every two days now. it is obvious that we must change course, we must have cheaper cooperation and protection - they are indispensable - rather than going further and further, both in forced integration and in free global trade.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we called for the eu to show goodwill and flexibility in its approach to brexit. we’ve now seen this in the most recent negotiations and at the european council. what a change in atmosphere. my thanks to michel barnier. my thanks to donald tusk. my thanks to jean-claude juncker. i hope there will be some proper reflection in due course on why the british people chose to leave the european union and i hope that before december 2020 there will be technical alternatives acceptable, technical alternatives to customs checks. the presidents and prime ministers of the member states in the council have now agreed a deal and want to get on with it. they want the urgent consent of this house, and we should deliver this with all speed. after all, the departure date of 31 october was set, not by the british government, but by the european council back in april. there is no appetite for extension. some colleagues say they want to see how the british parliament is responding, but i would say our task is separate. we should not be distracted. i am sure no one here, not even mr verhofstadt, wishes to take on a role as the bercow of brussels. in any case, the withdrawal agreement is being put to the house of commons today. when it passes, i trust this will provide the signal that some here are looking for. some shenanigans may follow, but it’s not our task to join in. this is our moment to rise above the squabbling, all the alternative political agendas and show that the european parliament can be decisive when it matters. the eu must not make another sequencing mistake. let’s get brexit done without delay.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the council's conclusions of last week not only leave many questions open, but have obviously done nothing to help resolve some problems and, on the contrary, have even worsened the status quo ante on some issues. the discussion on the accession of north macedonia and albania to the european union has triggered a state and government crisis in north macedonia in the council. the debate on the multiannual financial framework is a toss-up between numbers and how to achieve the ambitious climate targets, and some of the heads of state and government themselves seem to be at a loss. but i am glad that the council has adopted the political assessment of my group and now shares the position that turkey's military intervention in northern syria and the war against the kurds are not covered by international law and are therefore contrary to international law. but if the council and the commission are already making the same analysis, i wonder why they are standing by, why they are not also taking up our political demands. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. we are committed to an immediate halt to arms exports to turkey and, more importantly, to the recognition of kurdish self-government! this economic and political pressure on turkey will not only protect the democratic opposition but also the kurds. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we will continue to do so. our priority has always been to secure the peace process in northern ireland and to protect the social rights of the millions affected, and yes, now there is a new deal which is obviously having a hard time getting through the house of commons at the moment. we are waiting for the final negotiated and ratified text from london, and so - if it does come - we will deal in all detail with the given and necessary time we need for this. i can assure you of that on behalf of my group. and if there is no text from london, and that could happen in the next few days, i would like to give the following advice to the heads of state and government for the decision on an extension that is likely to be taken at that time: if you agree to the extension, you will allow the british people to make a decision once again. some problems are solved that way by themselves. i would like to conclude by saying, mr tusk, that despite the differences in content, i would like to thank you for the work you have done and wish you all the best for what you have to look forward to.
president tusk, president juncker, dear jean-claude, thank you indeed for your commitment to europe, and especially for your comments regarding enlargement today. i will speak on brexit and during the coming days the task of our house will be to evaluate the withdrawal agreement and work on our consent to it. we will have to cope with unpredictable outcomes of the complex process of voting in the british parliament, but it is clear that we will only give consent once the process of ratification in the uk has been finalised. this all has indeed a sense of déjà vu as we do not know today what majorities will emerge during various votes in the house of commons, and what final result they might produce, and in particular it is difficult to judge today what can come out of the vote on the timetable motion. it is regrettable indeed that once again we have to cope with a huge dose of uncertainty at this stage of this long journey. my hope is that, unlike the two extensions, the second of which is now coming to an end, the transition period which an orderly withdrawal will offer will be efficiently used to give us, as future close partners, the best possible agreement on unprecedented close future relationship. let me finish by underlining that negative coverage of eu citizens’ rights in media, confusing announcements on freedom of movement, use of a secondary level legislation, also what we learned during our hearings with citizens, all that signals the risk that those rights might not be respected in the future. we should remember therefore that eu citizens’ rights in the uk are set out in their withdrawal agreement which would be subject to the formal ratification.
madam president, the european council reached a new withdrawal agreement with the uk government and that is in itself a good thing. it proves beyond any reasonable doubt that the eu is not here to make life difficult for the uk. in fact, we were able to negotiate agreements with three different prime ministers in the uk: mr cameron, mrs may and now mr boris johnson. and of course, an agreement will allow us to promote an orderly brexit and avoid the risk of a catastrophic no—deal. but we also know that, until today, the uk parliament has not taken any decision whatsoever on this proposed deal. now, the position of this parliament and the position of our group is completely clear: we will not proceed with any consent vote until the uk parliament has approved the agreement. now let me be completely clear: first, any consent vote means not only the final consent by the plenary but also any consent vote in our committee on constitutional affairs. and when we say, approval by the uk parliament, we mean the uk parliament with two chambers: the house of commons and the house of lords. and when we say the agreement has to be approved, we mean the final ratification in the uk parliament after all amendments have been considered, including the one that is asking for a final say of the people in a second referendum. the european parliament will be ready as soon as the uk parliament is ready. and, if an extension becomes needed, the position of this parliament was already stated and it’s clear: we will support such an extension and we do support the most important political statement made here today by president tusk, that our decision will never be no—deal. if so, the council will have for sure the support of our political group but also indeed the support of this parliament.
madam president, first of all, i want to say to mr van orden that i am honoured that you compared me with mr bercow. it’s in any way better than to be compared with mr rees-mogg, because mr bercow’s ties are more colourful. i like them more than those of mr rees-mogg. i want to thank the conference of presidents that they have confirmed that the consent procedure in this house will only start after the full ratification by the side of the united kingdom and that’s important, that was in our resolutions. i think we need to use the time between now and the consent vote to solve the last problems that still exist today which are the rights of the eu citizens that are living in the uk. there are still a number of problems to be solved. there is the vulnerable citizens – 200 000 of them who are in need of assistance. there is those who will miss the deadline, and there one of the members of the uk government has said, oh, we’re going to do deportation. well, i can tell you this problem needs to be solved in all clarity before, that there is no deportation of these people. there is the difference between a settled status and pre-settled status. what is, in my opinion, not always clear why people are in pre-settled stages are not in settled status with full rights. and there is the independent monitoring authority. it’s not clear in the withdrawal bill how independent the independent monitoring authority will be and we have to be sure that it is a real independent monitoring authority. so, before the house will give consent, i want to see this problem solved. we don’t want that the eu citizens become victims in another windrush scandal in britain. that cannot happen. finally, i want to use this intervention also to say some positive things about jean-claude juncker, but already he is not there and especially to donald tusk, i want thank him for the cooperation. we never had words with each other during these five years in the debates and i wanted to wish him all the luck in his upcoming challenges, somewhere in a big country in the east of europe. good luck donald.
madam president, i will also limit my remarks to brexit, unsurprisingly. president tusk, from scotland, i would very warmly thank you and praise you for your conduct in office and for your efforts to keep the door open to us. it has been appreciated in scotland and it has been appreciated across the uk as well. you’ve been a true friend to the united kingdom. thank you. the last time we met to discuss this, i alleged bad faith on the part of those close to the uk government – not their front spokespeople or apologists, but their tormentors, people of bad faith who around this uk government are looking to trash whatever deal you have agreed in good faith. i didn’t expect to be proven right as quickly as i have been. even overnight we saw very worrying moves that a delegated legislation committee stuffed with government mps has approved ending the rights of residents of eu nationals in the uk – self-employed and business owners. eu nationals were told in advance of the referendum that nothing would change. it’s changing now before the text has even been ratified. so, what to do? you must deal with the interlocutors you’re dealt. i respect that. but i tell you frankly, it may not have escaped your notice but the uk is in chaos right now. mr johnson’s government hangs by a thread and its word cannot be trusted even if there was good faith and an intent to implement it. also the uk is not westminster. i would refer you to a letter from the joint first ministers of scotland and of wales. the scottish and welsh parliaments must also consent to this. we have not consented to this. let’s be real, colleagues. there is no possible way that westminster can conclude proper ratification of this deal this week. we should not lend the credibility of this parliament or the council to collude in that shabby deception. the only answer is more time. time is the great healer. an extension has been requested, albeit through gritted teeth by a prime minister who is desperate to pretend he hasn’t, but an extension has been requested. grant it. grant it now. grant it for a year, longer. mr johnson and his fellow travellers may have wasted the time. we will not. we are trying to find solutions. we need more time to do that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are witnessing a farce in never-ending files: the british people have voted by a majority to leave - a referendum, a majority, a clear decision - but to date there is no result, no exit. who among you still has the courage to explain to the people how the ratification of the withdrawal agreement is being cheated and blocked? they have been very successful in making the withdrawal agreement as unattractive as possible and thus making the withdrawal as unlikely as possible. contrary to expectations, boris johnson now appears to have a majority in favour of ratification. now you are delaying ratification here in the european parliament, and the eu's deputy in the house of commons, john bercow, is doing his thing by increasingly delaying a vote in the house of commons on the withdrawal agreement. everyone's in the brake room, everyone's in their seats. this is a bizarre spectacle. i look at the sad spectacle with a laughing and a crying eye. crying because we are historical witnesses to the perversion of democratic processes here, and laughing because i know that the esteemed boys and girls of the brexit party are here and will continue to enrich this house as voices of freedom and will get on your collectivist nerves. that's good news.
the european council did not agree on the accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and i would say: but fortunately. mostly thanks to france. there is no need for further enlargement of the european union. moreover, the idea of "the british out and the balkans in" is not a good deal. and certainly not albania, which thrives on corruption and is on a par with colombia in that respect. north macedonia is on the same level as panama! that's not good. look at romania in 2007. everyone thought romania was ready for accession. corruption was a big problem. romania joined. the money flowed to romania and the corruption got worse. one political crisis after another! turkey is a bridge too far. since 2004, the european commission has been feeding a sample in turkey. his name, mr juncker: - what? the netherlands showed weak knees and was in favour of macedonia's accession. france blocked it all and i don't often agree with mr macron, but in this case i say: thank you!
madam president, so we hope we have avoided a no—deal. but it is still brexit for the north of ireland. it’s a messy and an ugly compromise, and if the british mess further and ultimately give a unionist consent veto, there will never, ever again, be a stormont assembly. this deal as agreed mitigates the worst damage of brexit. it avoids a harder border in ireland. it avoids customs posts and we have a common eu vat regime, a special status of sorts, now that’s important. but cows and sheep get eu standards, whereas people get potentially lower british standards – on workers’ rights, consumer rights, environmental protection – no level playing field. now that’s damaging. we’re allowed to hang around the eu house, but it’s still only a half-way house. people want the real thing. irish unity is the agreed way forward for the people back into the eu. this house should recognise that. this house should act to facilitate that, and this house should plan and prepare for irish unity and not be asleep at the wheel.
madam president, mps in my parliament are stopping a deal which is mandated by the people. a ‘no deal’ which is mandated by the people and a general election. parliament does not have a democratic mandate for a second referendum or cancelling brexit, and yet they are amending their way to it. control has been stolen from my people. but we do not give up. despite it all, the majority of brits still wouldn’t want to change the brexit result. so i would like to celebrate millions of voters who stood up for what they believed in in 2016 and still have the courage not to give up. they show the best of british through their perseverance in the face of adversity. you may have tried to wear us down, dampened our spirits through the emotional rollercoaster of our negotiations, but my belief in them is unwavering and resolute. they will be heard. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, in your speech you used some information, perhaps you can explain it to us. you said that the majority of the citizens of the united kingdom do not want to change the outcome of the referendum. where did you get this data? we've been informed here that there's a petition, signed by millions of britons, that there are protests. where did you get this information? you have an obligation as a member of the european parliament to be rigorous when you give information.
blue-card answer. – i would like to mention the 54% comres poll that was released last week. i’d also like to mention the 17.4 million people, who shall not be forgotten in their vote in 2016, that still remain a majority. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i’d just like to remind you that your slogan in 2016 was ‘take back control’ – and that’s what our parliament’s doing. isn’t that what you wanted?
blue-card answer. – in my country the people are sovereign. i’m not sure too much about this parliament, but in my country people make the laws. i want the people to decide. and our slogan didn’t exist in 2016. the brexit party is very new.
mr president unfortunately, some national leaders lacked the courage, wisdom and long-term thinking at last week's eu summit. this is why the decision to finally open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania has not been taken. as the heads of the visegrad four stated before the summit, this decision affects our credibility in the region and will have serious and long-term consequences for our own stability and security. it's time to act in a geopolitical sense. other well, that's a waste of... what we have not done is act in our own well-defined interest to keep these two countries in our territory, to recognize the work they've done, and to stand by our word. we're not telling them what they have to do, we're just pushing them back, who knows how many centimeters, to the finish line. we cheated them, we lost credibility. let us not be under any illusions: we will have other, strong, long-term competitors who will want to take over the space left vacant by the union. they're already there, you just don't see them unless you want to. finally, there is something more than strange about the way in which the union measures what is called europeanism. when something happens in a distant country on a distant continent and the union manifests itself, it is not european to not support the common position. and now, after we've caused great disappointment to the citizens of two european countries, i haven't heard any comments that the blockers are not real europeans. i'd like everyone to think about that.
madam president, i want to thank our european friends for their continued patience on brexit, but let’s not be fooled: this deal is a ticking time bomb. if it passes both the uk and european parliaments, in little over a year from now, we may be looking at a situation akin to no deal. there is a risk of divergence on everything from workers’ rights to environmental standards, to taxation, due to the decision to scrap the level playing field from the withdrawal agreement and place that in the political declaration. the eu would walk away from free-trade negotiations if there is too much divergence, and it is unrealistic to think that such negotiations could conclude in only a year. this is a task set up to fail by a british prime minister who won’t need to clear up the mess because he’ll probably be removed from power in a general election soon. his self-imposed deadline should not dictate the futures and freedoms of young people, our fellow europeans in the uk, and brits living elsewhere in the eu. president tusk has acknowledged receipt of the letter requesting an extension. we need that extension to be granted. we must have a people’s vote.
madam president, on saturday i marched with a million others in london calling for a people’s vote. i marched because leaving the eu through the british government’s rotten deal poses a threat to our country. it weakens workers’ rights, it slashes and burns environmental rules, and it will hold back people whose communities have already suffered generations of governments abandoning them. this deal will harm every part of the uk, but it won’t hit us all evenly. women will suffer first. people of colour will endure the worst consequences, and those with the least now will have even less. that’s why we need a people’s vote so that people can have a final choice between this specific deal and remain. democracy did not die on 23 june 2016 and there is no majority in our country for a dangerous deal. so, while all eyes in the uk are currently on westminster, i want to say something loud and clear here in strasbourg: i will not give up on workers, on our environment, or on those likely to be worst affected by this dangerous deal. i will not give up on britain remaining in the eu. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – ms phillips describes the reduction in standards which would ensue in the event of the united kingdom leaving the european union. does she have no belief, no self-confidence and no understanding of the great british values that we have instilled across the globe for the betterment of mankind, and indeed the freedom of the continent in which we now sit?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i do not understand why those people there are so afraid of democracy and putting back to the people something specific that they can vote on, which will not affect just their futures but the whole of a continent. (the speaker declined a blue-card question from lance forman)
madam president, i would like to thank you. the situation in turkey is completely unacceptable. the country is becoming more authoritarian and undemocratic. the eu should suspend all forms of financial assistance to this country and all talks regarding possible future membership must cease immediately. the signal must be clear: you have disqualified yourselves in turkey from future cooperation. as far as the budget is concerned, it will have to be reduced after the uk leaves, so clearly. seriously, what makes you think in this house that my country, sweden, for example, would be interested in paying another 15 billion swedish kronor to the eu? we've always been one of the biggest payers on the internet. that's it, you're not getting another cent. instead, we should start the discussion on how to get back to what the eu was originally about, which you have forgotten in this house: peacekeeping and trade-promotion cooperation instead of empire-building.
madam president, the border in ireland is already too hard. it has frustrated the economic, social and political development in our country and resulted in a conflict for which too many paid too high a price. the good friday agreement and our shared membership of the eu have together been the instruments that have allowed us to undo some of the damages of partition over the past two decades. that is why brexit has been such a dangerous development. it has risked our peace process and our all ireland economy. even the deal that was negotiated last week will create new problems for and relating to the border in ireland. we support it because it is better than the alternative, but the deal cannot be further diluted. there can be no veto, no opportunity for any one party to hold every business, every farm, every worker, every community across the island of ireland to ransom. to suggest that such a veto would represent consent is absurd and is a ludicrous misreading of the good friday agreement. of course, the best way to protect our country from the dangers of brexit is through a united ireland. the eu can play a role in supporting the peaceful democratic pathway to that objective, and i hope that this house is ready and willing to be part of the big constitutional conversation that’s coming our way.
madam president, jean-claude, i have looked back and in these five years we have been through at least 15 very serious crises: the refugee crisis; the euro crisis; the greek crisis or grexit; the russian invasion of ukraine; fake news; the diesel crisis; the climate crisis and the paris summit; terrorist attacks; the rise of populism; the crisis of the rule of law in some countries of the european union; the crisis of the legitimacy of the institutions with the failure of the spitzenkandidat; the demographic crisis; the trade war between the united states and china; brexit - brexit is the worst of the national-populist decisions, because no one is more lost than the one who does not know where it is going - the nationalist coup d'état in spain - populism is trying to break up europe, also starting with my country. it's been five very difficult years, jean-claude, but despite everything, the 27 of us are more united and we are stronger. europe is still the greatest political invention in the history of mankind. thank you, jean-claude, and thank you to your commission. i'm seeing miguel. i'm looking at johannes. i'm looking at michel. i believe that from now on, however difficult times may be, we will have an example of what it means to work rigorously, seriously and with love for the european project. jean-claude, you make a latino like me feel politically a luxembourg. that is europe.
madam president, indeed, good point. the british government is trying to force through the deal in the house of commons in three days’ time, to hold three readings and the committee stage. a new 110-page long bill that has not been published before, a 600-page agreement that has recently been changed, no impact assessments have been published on this. there is no certainty that this ruse will work, or that this deal will be approved at least in its current form. there will be amendments tabled, however short the period. some amendments to try and have a softer brexit because, make no mistake, this is a hard brexit that takes britain away from europe, outside the customs union, outside the single market, it will be damaging for britain’s economy, damaging for the european economy. it’s a bad deal for britain and a bad deal for europe. but there will also be amendments to say that any brexit outcome, any deal, must go back to the public for a final decision and that is only right because brexit is turning out to be so completely different from what was promised by those leave campaigners three and half years ago. it is leave voters who are entitled to say, that’s not what i was told, this is not what i voted for. i want to have a say again and that is the mood of british public opinion as demonstrated on saturday in london. that is what opinion polls – most opinion polls – tell us, the british public want and deserve a right to reconsider this disastrous decision for our country. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i would like to ask mr corbett: what would he say to 5 million labour voters in 60% of labour seats who voted to leave the european union? how could you explain to them that you have not betrayed their vote by your party demanding they are forced to vote again in a second referendum? you should be ashamed of your party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the disappointing conclusions of the council demonstrate the need to equip the european union once and for all with the instruments to govern the changes in the world around us. i find it very serious that the leaders have not been able to make progress on the multiannual financial framework; they disagree on pretty much everything: the commission has already made a number of proposals. delaying the roadmap means jeopardizing the financing of european programmes which are essential for the territories and for the citizens. on the situation in syria, however, the european union is acting as a spectator to erdogan's military attack, leaving the kurdish people, our ally in the defeat of daesh, too much alone. the european union calls for the immediate deployment of an interdiction force, a no-fly zone and economic and trade sanctions to target the specific interests of the turkish government. it is time for parliament to show that it has the strength to break the long inertia in which the union still finds itself on these and other issues at the heart of the council's discussions.
colleagues, i just want to make an announcement on blue cards. we will close that now because we have 22 colleagues also on catch-the-eye, so i am closing both lists. so it’s going to be difficult to facilitate everybody.
madam president, while brexit is the talk of the day, i would like to voice my regret about the council conclusions on enlargement. north macedonia and albania have done everything we have asked of them. they have made important changes at real political costs. yet what kind of message are we sending to them today? for those who oppose negotiations, they must make clear what further actions are needed, and moreover, they must help north macedonia and albania to complete these actions through financial and political measures. we cannot leave these countries without a clear path forward. north macedonia and albania are european states, and therefore it is our duty to them and ourselves to start the enlargement process.
madam president, so another european council, another deal and an even bigger capitulation by boris johnson. the prime minister, who on 2 october said that the uk should leave the european union, whole and entire, has signed up to a deal where northern ireland would apply the european union customs code and northern ireland businesses would pay eu tariffs on goods used in the manufacturing process. and just yesterday, after checking what on earth he had negotiated, the brexit secretary confirmed that goods coming from northern ireland to gb will be subject to customs paperwork – an estimated cost of up to gbp 65 per declaration. given that 70% of all of northern ireland’s trade is within the united kingdom, this is a huge barrier to the northern ireland economy – a separation of northern ireland in customs and regulation from its own internal market. if all this was done for an independent trade policy, one prominent northern ireland economist has already declared that northern ireland would become a spectator in any uk trade deals. a shameful position. as boris johnston used to say: ‘no british prime minister could ever sign up to it’.
madam president, please let me not speak about brexit, i want to speak about the european council. at the beginning, let me thank mr tusk and mr juncker for the dedication and effort that they have shown in the previous council, but even years before. but we can see that sometimes dedication and effort is not enough. so i have one quite pressing issue, the question if the council is the place of cooperation, mutual respect and responsibility, where good common solutions are found for the future or if it’s the place for political games, disagreement, and sometimes even inconsistent decisions. it seems to me that in the last council the second prevailed over the first. i hope it is the exception, otherwise we are heading towards problems.
my dear mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council of last year was of paramount importance: the efforts to effectively overcome the severe humanitarian crisis in north-east syria and the ongoing discussions to reach a compromise on the multiannual financial framework. the second important topic is the uk and brexit. britain is still on the verge of leaving the european union, and despite prime minister johnson's insistence that he do so on october 28, it is now clear to all that he has no purpose, no plan, no direction. we must support the postponement of brexit, because the voices of all those people we saw on the streets of london on saturday finally need to be heard. at the same time, however, we cannot but note with bitterness the historic mistake that europe is about to make with regard to north macedonia and albania. any delay in the opening of the negotiation process is detrimental to the credibility of the european union in the balkans. the enlargement process is the best opportunity to ensure stability in the region and must not fall victim to political sentiment.
madam president, i would like to welcome the really very important decisions of the european council to take measures against turkey's aggressive expansionist activity in the cypriot exclusive economic zone, which violates the sovereign rights of a member country of the european union. at the same time, i should like to thank president donald tusk, who, by his presence at the european council over these five years, together with the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, and the european commission, has raised the prestige and credibility of the european union by his work and his mission. turkey has invaded syria in the same way, unhindered, as it invaded our cyprus 45 years ago and left behind it havoc and destruction. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the political and economic crisis in the middle east, which is a major cause of the current crisis in the region. i believe that we must, before it is too late, adopt the proposal of our dear friend manfred weber, leader of the european people's party, who has made it clear that turkey cannot continue to enjoy the customs union, the internal market and the support of the european union when it invades countries such as syria and when it violates principles and rights. we must all take a stand at this time and adopt manfred weber's proposal so that there are economic consequences for turkey. the european union is a union of principles and values which turkey must recognise and respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, last week's council meeting was not business as usual. several important issues have been undeservedly overshadowed by brexit, as best demonstrated by the lack of substance in the conclusions on the situation in syria and the mere reference to the mff. i regret that the unity and consensus reached on the updated brexit deal has not been followed up by an agreement to open pre-accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. both themes affect the union's credibility, our ability to act as a global actor in an increasingly turbulent foreign policy environment. as we face an increasingly complex geopolitical situation, we must strengthen the european union's influence in our immediate neighbourhood. our support is unquestionable to avoid a no-deal exit for the uk and to protect the rights of our citizens. however, that depends mostly on the partners in london. on the contrary, the enlargement policy, that is, support for governments that have demonstrated a commitment to demanding reforms, is entirely up to us. i hope this unnecessary error of the council will be corrected at the earliest opportunity.
madam president, first, i’d like to say that we cannot imagine european politics in the last decades without president juncker. and i would like to praise you, not for your political activity, but because you are a true european and a true humanist. and i would dedicate to you a quote of montesquieu that can summarise your thought: ‘if i knew something useful to my fatherland which were prejudicial to europe, or something which were useful to europe and prejudicial to mankind, i would consider it a crime’. this is a good summary of your thought and of your action. e agora queria apenas dar duas notas sobre o conselho europeu. a primeira, para dizer que acompanho integralmente as posições tomadas quanto à negociação com o reino unido e quanto ao brexit e que acho que nós temos que continuar a demonstrar-nos muito abertos para todo o povo britânico, mas mantendo claramente a defesa da visão europeia. defender a europa é também defender o reino unido. e, finalmente, uma palavra de alguém que vem do farwest da europa para a decisão tomada acerca dos balcãs. é uma vergonha que nós não estejamos em condições de abrir o processo de negociação com a macedónia do norte e com a albânia. elas precisam de nós, como nós, os países do farwest da europa, precisámos da europa no passado.
madam president, dear jean-claude and michel, i have only a minute, but i cannot pass up this opportunity to thank you for your work and your european vocation. the european construction owes you a great deal. the brexit keeps us all in total confusion. after the european summit and the vote in the house of commons, chaos continues to reign and british politicians must clarify. in any case, it is preferable to postpone the exit, rather than a hard brexit. but this debate cannot distract us from other priorities. we need an ambitious multiannual financial framework that goes far beyond one per cent of gross national income, as some heads of state and government have pointed out at the summit, among others, the mine. we have to face the challenges of migration, climate change and the digital agenda. we also need resources to combat youth unemployment, longterm unemployment and the implementation of the gender strategy. and above all, we must strengthen traditional european policies such as the cap and social and territorial cohesion. we cannot allow our fields and rural areas to continue to empty and the gap between the regions to continue to widen.
madam president, 31 october is a little over a week away and, of course, that brings to mind halloween – pumpkins, ghosts and all things spooky – and some people might get carried away and want to ‘die in a ditch’ in the spirit of halloween. but that wouldn’t apply to most of us, so for that reason, in terms of the withdrawal agreement, i think it’s important that we take our time and get it right. we have waited three years. if we have to wait another three weeks or three months, it’s better to take our time and get it right than to rush and get it wrong. having said that, the updated withdrawal agreement is something better than a disorderly exit and, definitely, prime minister johnson, taoiseach leo varadkar and michel barnier deserve credit for the speed at which they worked to get this in order. however, as i said, we must take our time and get it right. finally, i would also like to be associated with mr gonzález pons’ and mr rangel’s and other people’s comments in relation to president juncker. you’ve had a fantastic five years, mr juncker. you’ve shown great leadership and enjoyed great success, and europe will always be grateful to you.
madam president, i am concerned that there is a misunderstanding between merkel and macron, between france and germany. the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, and the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons. i would therefore like to see this bad language overcome, because i believe that with better franco-german cooperation we will have much more potential. i would also like to thank president juncker for what he has done for my country, greece, and we all thank him in greece, regardless of political affiliation, because juncker loves the greeks, he loves us all, with our known weaknesses and shortcomings. after all, that's the true meaning of love, to be unselfish. we thank him very much for what he has done.
madam president, the european council are playing games with all of us. they were quite happy to go along with boris johnson's timeline for brexit but not to follow the long held eu line encouraging north macedonia and albania to join our european project. the council were willing to accept the promises of a liar prime minister in the uk but not willing to keep their word when it comes to good neighbours in the balkans. we have made a promise to north macedonia and albania and not honouring that promise could be a historic mistake. regarding the uk, what kind of international treaty should be rushed through without proper process or scrutiny? the council has tried to bounce this issue back onto the european parliament without allowing sufficient time for consideration and reflection before rejection or ratification. brexit will not magically go away. if the deal passes, this is just the end of the beginning, rather than the beginning of the end. now begins the hard part.
madam president, dear jean-claude, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank jean-claude for this really good leadership. but now about brexit. after the brexit referendum we got strong statements from london. brexit means brexit. out means out. ‘no deal’ is better than a bad deal. during the last five years as commission vice-president responsible for the digital single market, i used to deal with very practical issues. we were able to abolish roaming surcharges in the european union, but what will happen with those roaming surcharges after brexit? it will depend on negotiations between eu 27 and the united kingdom. we were able to agree on the general data protection regulation to protect the privacy of our people and we were able to agree in free data flows to support our industries, and we all know uk is really good as cloud service provider, but what will happen with data flows after brexit? it will depend on the deal. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i thank all colleagues for their patience with the nightmare of brexit so far. i, too, deeply regret this. i, too, believe it’s been a waste of time and energy, and i agree with so many of you that things should not be artificially rushed now. on saturday, i marched with hundreds of thousands of people through my capital city, london, to call for a people’s vote on any final deal. you will have seen the pictures, a sea of pro-european sentiment on the streets of london. that is the will of the people. it has changed since 2016; 74 out of 75 polls in the last year show a majority for remain, so please, friends, be in no doubt about the strength of pro-european feeling in the uk. and yet here we are, our new prime minister who has lost every single vote in the house of commons so far – an historically unprecedented record of failure – is asking the eu to help dig him out of his own ditch. he wants the council and this house to increase the pressure in westminster but the deal raises very serious questions. we know the aim of the brexiteers is to undermine social and environmental standards, so hard won, not to increase them. we know johnson cannot be trusted. that’s why this deal needs thorough scrutiny here and in westminster.
madam president, the united kingdom has been a good customer and friend of the european union and its member states. in the 20 years to 2018, the eu enjoyed a total trade surplus of nearly 750 billion with the uk. the uk has also contributed a net figure of 120 billion to the eu project over the same period, and the uk is one of only six member states that meet nato defence spending commitments that provide security to everybody in this place. given this, i would like to know why messrs juncker, tusk and barnier feel that it’s okay to meet uk opposition leaders and the likes of tony blair in a blatant attempt to interfere in british politics. it seems martin selmayr hinted at the eu intent when he was overheard saying that northern ireland would be the price that britain would pay for brexit. is it not the truth that the british people have been treated in contempt by the eu in these negotiations?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr tiilikainen, mr oettinger, the last time we discussed the 2020 budget a month ago, not one of the 53 speakers who took the floor here in the plenary from the european parliament supported the council's proposals which cut crucial funds, causing disagreement not only in the european parliament but also in the commission. we cannot accept cuts in funding for regional and social cohesion, for job creation for young people, for technological innovation, for horizon 2020, for tackling the climate crisis. and today we had a development: the cuts proposed by the far right and the brexiteers, those who want to break up the european union, applauded. does that satisfy you ? a meagre budget that is constantly cutting, that is increasing inequalities, that is increasing divergences and that is serving the political plans of those who want to break up the european union. but those who voted in the european elections, especially the young people with their increased participation, they want more and better europe, with better jobs, with technological innovation, with tackling the environmental crisis, they want a europe that is a pioneer in technology, in the environment, but also supportive of the farmer and the countries of the east that have joined the european union and the countries of the european south, they do not want more austerity and more cuts. i am therefore faced with a large majority in the european parliament asking you to finally understand that the european parliament is a co-legislator and that unless the european parliament says 'yes', there will be no agreement. the council must go even further than the commission's proposals and come closer to the european parliament's proposals, rather than fighting amongst yourselves, if there is to be an agreement.
madam president, ‘he who does not economise has to agonise’ – so said confucius. in my short time in this parliament, i have experienced a new sensation – not having to worry about how much anything costs. offices, equipment, travel, chauffeurs, public relations, every possible trapping of power, provided with no expense spared. we even run not two but three separate parliament buildings. the carbon footprint is staggering, avoidable and flies in the face of wisdom. our 500 million constituents fund this largesse, while they are ground into poverty by the unsustainable euro experiment. quantitative easing supports the unsupportable. it results in negative interest rates, undermining the very foundation of capitalism. it also creates a massive contingent risk as pensioners are forced to chase higher income. those who try to leave the club or reform it are punished. catalans, gilets jaunes and uk brexiteers are sacrificed on the undemocratic altar of the post-war plan to create a european super-state. as the digital revolution releases the individual, confucius is proven right: europe will agonise at leisure unless logic triumphs over largesse.
madam president, since the 1700s it has been argued that there should be no taxation without representation. i very much hope that this will be my final opportunity to speak in this democratic façade of a chamber. i also hope that this historic principle will be respected. if the united kingdom leaves this technocracy in the near future, it is entirely unreasonable to expect british taxpayers to continue to fund initiatives over which they have no say. in 1990, a former british prime minister said to the commission president, monsieur delors, ‘no, no, no’. she was right then, on further integration, and i say the same with regard to budget contributions after we leave. the oft-ignored voters of the nation states that make up the european union, and those that leave, cannot and should not be plundered. the electors of the east midlands asked for respect. i demand it. democracy must be respected.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first, a brief comment on what we have just heard from mrs rees-mogg. in 1761, a citizen in the 14 colonies expressed his disgust by the words "no taxation without representation". why did he say it? he said it because the british parliament taxed him. so you should just check your history. it's not... (shouting by some members) they have a chequered history, that's right. then back to my swedish tongue. when i came to parliament seven years ago and tried to understand this strange budget, we had a system where you make promises and then gradually create a deficit which we now have to deal with in the last budget of the period. that is the main point of the negotiations we are trying to have with the finnish presidency. i hope that state secretary tiilikainen also understands the complex eu budget we have and understands that now it has to be a little money. tiilikainen has understood this before, so it may not be possible this time.
madam president, as an exception i will accept a blue card from those.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting, and thank you for the history lesson, that we did know our own country’s history, and we recall that in 1776 the americans decided we were so unrepresentative of their best interests and real democracy of any description, that we did tax without... that... (interruption by the president)
blue-card question. – ...they decided to leave. can you dispute the concept that america has thrived since leaving an undemocratic union?
madam president! the european parliament has many shortcomings, but it certainly has the undeniable advantage of always being behind a larger budget. the council has many advantages, but it has one drawback: it is always stingy, always trying to cut the budget. i think that compromise is the thing to do here, but the countries that hold the presidency of the european union, the often rich countries, should show more empathy to those countries that for historical reasons were not given the opportunity to be in the european structures early enough to build their wealth. we are in favour of this compromise as the ecr group. we want the policies that are most important to us to work: cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy. our debate today is a taste of what's to come in this year and especially next year when it comes to the seven-year budget for 2021-2027.
madam president, earlier this month, at a meeting of the committee on budgetary control, the brexit party learned that the eu had misspent eur 4 billion of its 2018 budget – an eye-watering increase of eur 700 million in lost funds against the previous year. even worse – the eu had absolutely no way of detailing where its eur 885 million in foreign aid had gone. shockingly, i have also learned that the authority auditing the eu budget is filled with former meps loyal to the cause – a clear recipe for disaster and corruption. now we have the 2020 budget before us today and we see that, despite a looming brexit where we deal out gruel to the british, spending is set to balloon to eur 168.3 billion – an increase of eur 2.5 billion on 2019. with all this in mind, surely brussels should now try to win some respect and get the shattered trust of the public back. surely it is time for the budget to be audited externally with full transparency – because at present we cannot trust the eu with our income tax nor our vat. with the eu, there’s no money back, no guarantee. i put it to you that ‘only fools and horses’ would sign off the 2020 budget. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question posed by the blue card. excellent, sir, thank you for having the courage to accept my blue card. that was a great speech. you really impressed me. but you know what's wrong with your speech? you have absolutely no knowledge of the facts. show me and tell me now specifically, answer the question: where is the 80 million mentioned that was lost from the european budget because of corruption? show me exactly where it is. otherwise, colleague, i would say that they are more like a campaign statement to your constituents.
blue-card answer. – the money was unaccounted for, and this was fully detailed in the eu auditors’ – commissioner’s – report. if you haven’t got that link i can send it to you, or perhaps we could have a drink in the bar and talk about it later – in the interests of european entente cordiale?
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hohlmeier, and commissioner oettinger for their work on this budget. the eu budget is about the added value it brings to the member states and citizens of the european union. every euro we put into the eu budget and spend at union level is returned to the citizens in multiples, and that is a fact. now i find it very difficult to understand the council once again. the council presidency has put forward a proposal to cut the commission's budgetary deficit by some eur 1.5 billion. the most incomprehensible thing is the cutting of the horizon programme for research and science by more than eur 400 million and then the failure to use the flexibilities, which will lead to almost eur 300 million more cuts. this is precisely the money with which the future of europe is being built. and since it must also be remembered that the presidency has just today received a warning from the commission about the breach of the eu budgetary discipline and the breach of the rules, i would now like to say in this context - although it would of course be easier to defend this cut in the eu budget in a populist way - that look after its own budget. the budget we have here in the eu is being used wisely, and i would therefore ask the presidency and the council why you are cutting so much from the horizon programme.
madam president, as i’m hopefully soon to be an ex—mep, allow me to offer this house some advice. the eu is seen by many as closed, bureaucratic and opaque, a place where citizens have no influence over the decisions being made. the eu is perceived as an institution that spends vast amounts of taxpayers’ money – as we can see in this budget – on things of little interest to ordinary people. but, for this house, more is never enough. as sure as the turning seasons, the european parliament proposes a budget which will see more money than ever before flow into the eu coffer. however, democracy is about people feeling that they have influence over decisions that affect their lives, and i believe this was the original intention of the principle of subsidiarity. may i therefore suggest that this house switch off the auto-pilot, stop the ever-increasing centralisation, respect the principle of subsidiarity and let national governments decide whether decisions are better taken by them or whether to refer it to brussels. this way you might find that the popularity of the central government and the engagement of the citizens improves dramatically, as i expect will happen in the uk after we have left this institution.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mr sarvamaa again for his very thorough explanation of the matter. we certainly agree that migration will remain a major challenge for europe in the coming years and decades. that is why we need, on the one hand, a sustainable, common european asylum system for the future. progress has been made in this area, but not all the proposals put forward by the commission and other competent services have been implemented. the internal agencies that europe has to deal with migration and refugee issues were set up in a different time and in a different context. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european parliament, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. easo plays a key role in our european migration policy. as regards the further development of the specific case, firstly, disciplinary action will be taken on the basis of the reports of olaf and the court of auditors. it is the task of the supervisory authorities to take administrative action against the director and against employees. this is what we do. secondly, it concerns the judicial proceedings, whether administrative, civil or criminal, which must follow. the third is the examination and enforcement of possible financial claims. this also includes procedures. we are happy to report to the house. the good thing is that in a democracy where there are control bodies such as olaf, the court of auditors, parliament and the commission, there is a way to clarify matters. and i think what this shows is that the rule of law and democracy in transparency also work. thank you for your words.
rapporteur. – mr president, as already mentioned also by commissioner oettinger, there has been significant improvement in the governance of easo under the new management. their commitment to reform has shown results at both financial and human resources level. this is why we call on the new management to continue its determined and transparent efforts to develop a more accountable, trustworthy and efficient governance structure and related procedures. however when taxpayers’ money is lost, or spent without fair procurement and competition, the european parliament must point out such cases so that they can be prevented in the future. we are now looking forward to cooperation with the new easo management with the aim to monitor closely how the ambitious 2019 easo governance action plan will be implemented. lastly, while recognising all efforts made to remedy the shortcomings of the past, we cannot assume political responsibility for approving the budgetary and financial management of the agency in 2017. if we want to remain serious about the discharge granted by the european parliament, we cannot arrive at a different conclusion following the adverse opinion issued by the court of auditors and the issues identified by the olaf investigation. this is why discharge for easo for the financial year 2017 should be refused.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 october 2019.
the next item is the debate on the second report of ms isabel garcía muñoz, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section ii european council and council (com (((2018) 0521 c8-0320/2018 2018/2168 dec)) (a9-0010/2019). i am pleased to inform you that we have a new option for oral submissions, namely the electronic submission for the blue card and for the spontaneous oral submission procedure. you can use the blue card instead. the electronic registration is now possible, you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, let me first say something about the specific exercise of discharge for the 2017 budget and then comment on the state of play of our discussions on the cooperation between parliament and the council during the discharge procedure in general. in relation to the implementation of the 2017 budget, you know of course that the court of auditors in its annual report, i quote: ‘did not identify any issues concerning the council’. this is worth underlining. as for the more general discussion between our two institutions, after several years of deadlock both sides made an endeavour in 2018 to reach an understanding which would ensure pragmatic cooperation while maintaining certain positions of principle on both sides. the council has always underlined that article 319 of the treaty provides for a single discharge procedure for the entire eu budget. parliament has adopted a political practice providing for separate procedures for each institution or body. in spite of this disagreement in principle, we found that there was still scope for identifying a common set of good practices to facilitate cooperation in the discharge procedure. the council revised its 2011 draft memorandum of understanding on the basis of a proposal of the european parliament and sent an amendment text back to parliament in may 2018. further contacts and exchanges took place in summer 2018 and the council took note of subsequent suggestions by the then—chair of the committee on budgetary control (cont), ms grässle. last summer, after the transition period around the european elections, the council received a letter from the new cont chair, ms hohlmeier, asking for feedback on her predecessor’s suggestions. the presidency can confirm that the council’s competent preparatory bodies are currently examining the way forward. it is very important for the council to know whether parliament still stands behind our common approach of the last year, in particular the clear delimitation of the scope of the discharge procedure. discharge is about the implementation of the budget. it cannot be used as a means to make the council politically accountable to the european parliament. another very important element for the council is the equal and mutual exchange of information between our two institutions. the draft memorandum says ‘notwithstanding the difference between their respective roles in the discharge procedure, the parliament and the council need a similar factual basis’. this seemed to be the common ground last year. i hope it still is, but it will also have to be ensured in concrete terms. as you will understand, i cannot anticipate today the council’s reaction to ms hohlmeier’s letter. the council is in the process of defining its position on the best way forward. let me reassure, nonetheless, that the presidency is doing all it can to conclude this process and to find a solution which is acceptable to both institutions. thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
- i'm not going to. i would just like to say that i expect the members of this house not to question the usefulness of the european parliament as the heart of european democracy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the procedure for granting discharge separately to individual eu institutions and bodies is our longstanding practice, which was developed to guarantee the transparency of the accounts of these institutions to the citizens of the eu member states and the necessary fight against fraud. this procedure is accepted by all the institutions except the council, i stress only the council. parliament shall grant discharge to the other institutions after considering the documents submitted, the replies to the questions put and after hearing the secretaries-general of those other institutions. the question is, how do we grant a discharge when we have no information? the council again failed to reply to written questions from parliament and the secretary-general of the council did not attend the hearing organised on 27 november 2018 in the context of the discharge procedure. the council did not take account of the observations which parliament needed for its resolution, thus undermining the role of parliament.
mr president, i’ve always said the european union is world class at one thing – wasting money, and this discharge report rather makes the point again. in 2017, the eu council spent eur 100 000 on a relaxation chair and eur 20 000 on the rental of a shooting range. it spent eur 35 000 taking its staff and children on a subsidised trip to a theme park and spent eur 55 000 on a big party where staff could enjoy a 3—course dinner and dance the night away with a taxpayer—funded open bar until 3 am. in 2018, the eu council spent eur 115 000 on bottles of champagne. do the british people really want to funnel another 30 billion plus into the european union’s coffers for a new european treaty or do they want to take back control? i say ‘enough’. i say let’s take back control of our money with a clean break brexit.
mr president, i firmly believe that just as the british will take control of their money after brexit and show us how they can manage it well - i'd love to go there to teach - so we with the council will find some consensus today. and i think it's important that we look for that consensus across the political spectrum. yes, it was mentioned here by my colleagues at id that the consensus on budget control has not been reached for seven years. i'm supposed to be the council's discharge officer next year. and that's why i took it, because i think there needs to be a dialogue. and here i need klaus welle's help and i need his openness to be able to argue with us why it is the european parliament that oversees the accounts of the european institutions, that we all measure the same. that just as we are crushing him in the cont committee with our questions concerning the european parliament, it is normal to ask questions concerning the council, which were asked by colleagues from the uk. and i firmly believe that we all care about transparency in this room. that's what we're talking about here. and that we will find that compromise and show the citizens of the european union that we are the first to want to have order in our accounts.
i am not going to go into detail. we now come to the spontaneous verbal communications. i have a word message. but i would like to say something basic first: there are now fewer colleagues present than there are flags in the seats of colleagues. in the spirit of a parliament which represents citizens by citizens, i would say that the flag cannot replace a person. we have to represent the people as citizens, and i therefore ask you to reconsider this substitution. we should be taking part in the debate as human beings and not by substituting for the rules of procedure. spontaneous speech
mr president, mr zdechovský was kind enough to refer to the uk in terms of issues of this matter. i want to make a couple of points that are not about democracy per se, but about the responsibilities of democracy. transparency is one of the essential ingredients in terms of giving trust to our voters. throughout this debate, we have heard the key issue of transparency come round and round again, and i am not surprised, given that we are talking about eur 562 million that has not been accounted for to this parliament. the three things the european parliament and the european council really need to reflect on are the following. the first thing, there needs to be external accounting for these matters; at the moment, the internal accounting procedure is not working. the second thing is that the executive must appear before the committees. i cannot imagine a situation where the executive is refusing to appear before the committees of this parliament. the third thing is conflicts of interest around sponsorship; those must be accounted for. our voters need transparency.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the exchange of views we have had today. i wish to highlight that the president of the court of auditors himself has declared in your budgetary control committee that the council is examined in the same way as any other institution. furthermore, the council provides the european parliament with the complete financial documentation mentioned in the treaty articles about discharge. in addition, for some years now parliament has had access to the annual activity reports of the council’s authorising officers by delegation and other documents which contain all relevant information about how the council uses its resources and how it organises its work. honourable members, i’d like to repeat here that the finnish presidency is committed to exploring all possibilities to reach a mutually acceptable arrangement. we have to aim for something that works, and that works for everyone. i want to emphasise that one of my predecessors as president of the council once said that the eu institutions can gain the trust of the citizens in the union only together, not against each other. finally, just shortly on corporate sponsorship. i’d like to reiterate that corporate sponsorships are a matter falling within the remit of each member state. of course the council is politically accountable to the union’s citizens. this accountability operates through member states’ governments that are being controlled democratically and legitimatised by national parliaments. it is fair to say that it does not operate through the european parliament. thank you very much for this exchange of views, mr president.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 october 2019.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the horizontal anti-discrimination directive making progress (2019/2877 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is my pleasure to join you for this debate on this important file: the proposal for a horizontal equal treatment directive. we all agree on the importance of the principle of equal treatment, as well as of the fight against all forms of discrimination. however, member states choose different ways of combating discrimination. the vital importance of this directive stems from the fact that it would fill in the existing gaps in the eu legislation concerning the development and the implementation of measures in the field of equal treatment across europe. the proposal covers four grounds for discrimination: religion and belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. the aim of the proposal is to extend the protection against discrimination on these grounds beyond employment and also to other areas such as access to goods and services. after the proposal was tabled in 2008, the european parliament quickly agreed on a legislative resolution which would feed, through the consultation process, into the decision—making. on the council side, in the 11 years since the proposal was published, each presidency has had this file on their agenda. due to its legal basis, in order to adopt it, unanimity in the council is required and, unfortunately, this requirement is difficult to achieve. remaining challenges concern the division of competences, legal certainty and the financial implications of the proposal, among other things. thus, for the time being, the council common position seems to remain out of reach. a lot of effort was invested in the discussions so far, as testified by the successive progress reports. we have understood that discussing the text further at this point would not do much to remove the existing deadlock. this is why we, under our presidency, decided to launch a broader exchange of views on non-discrimination at different levels, the culmination of which will be the policy debate at the next epsco meeting on 24 october, actually just two days from now. we expect a fruitful and constructive debate. we hope it will also inspire and feed into the work and the future commitments of the incoming commission in this policy field. the aim of the debate is twofold. firstly, we will take stock of the current situation and challenges in non-discrimination in the eu in general, and second, we will explore possible ways forward in this area. in other words, we want to identify the types of measures and actions needed for ensuring the effective implementation of the principle of equal treatment in order to efficiently advance the eu’s fight against discrimination beyond the field of employment. we hope that, as a result of the policy debate, we will get a better feel of member states’ vision for the future of anti-discrimination in the eu. hopefully, it will also provide motivation for member states to look at the proposal again from the new perspective. we are optimistic and ambitious but, at the same time, as the presidency, we want to respect different national views and listen carefully to the concerns of all member states concerning this key proposal. we consider that the upcoming policy debate is important and timely. its outcome might serve as a basis for devising new steps towards progress. i would still like to emphasise that equal treatment is a principle enshrined in our treaties and reiterated in the european pillar of social rights and in several un conventions ratified by the union. all european citizens have the right to be treated equally and be free of discrimination. apart from this inherent right, it is also economically and socially beneficial if everyone is provided with the opportunity to fully participate in society. it is clear that our work is not yet done in this area, and we still have a long way to go. i do not think any member of the council would contest this. the question is rather about the way we move ahead. in this regard, i am confident that our debate among epsco ministers will prove to be a fruitful exchange. we commend the parliament in its committed work in the fight against discrimination and the promotion of equal treatment. it was with great interest that we took note of parliament’s several valuable contributions concerning this issue, including your resolutions on fundamental rights, on protection of minorities, and more recently, on women’s rights and gender equality, to name just a few. i’m looking forward to hearing your views on this important matter.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, discrimination has no place in our union, regardless of whether it takes place within or outside the employment sphere, and regardless of whether it is based on racial origin, sex, disability, religion or beliefs, age or sexual orientation. this is why the adoption of a horizontal equal treatment directive is so crucial. it would ensure that equality applies to everyone and in all aspects of life. for many years, the european parliament has been expressing its support for the proposal and i want to use this opportunity to thank the parliament for your determination and your sustained cooperation. we have some new figures from the eurobarometer on discrimination, which will be released in two days on 24 october. we notice very little progress at eu level when it comes to perceptions and attitudes on discrimination compared with the figures we have from 2015. according to the existing figures, 53% of europeans say that discrimination is widespread on the ground of sexual orientation in their country. for people of roma origin, the figure is even worse – 61% of europeans say that there is discrimination on those grounds. for those who identify as gay, lesbians, bisexual, transgender or intersex, 58% say they have felt discriminated against in the last 12 months. there is thus enough evidence of discrimination being widespread. this is not only harmful for the affected individuals and groups; it is also costly for our societies. a 2018 report shows that the gap in equality legislation leads to costs and losses in terms of gdp and tax revenue. to use a single example, individual impacts in the area of race and ethnicity include lost earnings of up to eur 8 billion and demonstrably higher risks of economic hardship. to address this situation, the commission has been striving since 2008 for the adoption of its proposal for a horizontal equal treatment directive, and we will not give up on it. we are working hard with the council to overcome the political blockage and to start real work on the remaining technical issues. at the social affairs council meeting on thursday, we are going to hold a political debate on this issue and, as we heard from the presidency, this file requires unanimity. however, we must not give up and we will try again and again. we will spare no effort to have the current proposal adopted and settle the issues in relation to its implementation and costs, in light of advances such as the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with a disability and the adoption of the european accessibility act. i want to thank the finnish presidency for organising a policy debate on enhancing non-discrimination. i will participate in the council debate this thursday, and the outputs of the council will be key for our further efforts to overcome the current impasse. the debate will have a clear mission for me: to urge the council for progress on the file and express my wish for an agreement to be reached.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in march 2009, more than ten years ago, we voted in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on a directive to combat discrimination based on religion, disability, age or sexual orientation in all areas of life. but since that vote, nothing has really changed. ten years ago, i imagine our predecessors thought that a progressive text like this, aimed at finding solutions, would be agreed by the council and adopted quickly. how naive of you! the representatives of the member states were unable to reach an agreement and, once again, many of them hid behind arguments of financial cost. so, seriously, have conditions radically improved in the area of discrimination? have the attacks on certain minority groups abruptly stopped and their living conditions improved? can people with disabilities claim that they have access to education, work, housing and transport on an equal basis with able-bodied people? seriously, of course not! and it is this kind of blocking behaviour that undermines the reputation of the european union and its representatives, and gives the impression that we are not interested in the real and serious problems facing democracies. because the european union is the best level of action and has a framework to fight discrimination and protect those who are victims of it, we must break the deadlock. that is why, madam president, i have heard you very well and i am taking this opportunity to address you, given the arrival of a new commission and also a finnish presidency.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the directive has been on the council's table for ten years we want to support commissioner jourová and that the prohibition of discrimination is the only right laid down in all international treaties and in article 2 of the treaty on european union. there are specific people, with names and surnames, who are denied rights linked to human dignity. some discrimination is clearly identified, but not well addressed; others are less well known. in these times we know organized fanatics with hate speech to prevent others from thinking and living without being harassed. freedom of conscience is the foundation of democratic societies. for example, in my country, catalonia, in order to build an identity state, the regional government has resorted to discriminatory practices. for years, families have been prevented from choosing that children can do their first letters in the family language as advised by unesco, if the family language is spanish. this same year, a teacher injured a ten-year-old girl because she painted a flag that was not what the teacher wanted: she didn't want a national flag. and there are children harassed by their parents' occupation. it's discrimination based on ideological phobia. we have a lot to learn. discriminatory bigotry is a risk of our time. we cannot allow fundamentalist or fanatical 'tsunamis' to take hold in any corner of europe. we need this directive very badly, and you will have our full support in getting it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there are times when politics and politicians show great courage and make difficult, painful, agonising, challenging and torturous decisions. fellow meps and european governments: on the question of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, this is simply not one of those times. it is easy – the european public is ahead of you. they are frustrated by you; they are confused by your objections. they understand non-discrimination with greater sophistication and greater urgency than any eu institution. we cannot accept for our people a hierarchy of discrimination, criteria, or the fact that the moment you leave the workplace, the law is no longer an ally. what the public do need is for a self-evident fact to be enshrined in law. from the shores of lampedusa to the arctic circle, from the coast of portugal to the beaches of the black sea. what is fair treatment for one european should be fair treatment for another. for 11 years we have waited, and for 11 years the council has stalled. on this, the parliament and the commission have been united. if the weight of unanimity from the european council is for reducing europeans citizens to second-class status, then – as the rapporteur for the european parliament – i ask as firmly as is polite that the council activists the passerelle clause provided in article 48, paragraph 7, of the treaty on european union in order to move from unanimity to qualified majority voting. let us be uncompromising for justice, and let us create a union of consistency, human dignity, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
mr president, it is unacceptable that a directive which was supposed to introduce a minimum level of protection against discrimination has remained blocked for ten years - and we have heard this argument - but why is it important to unblock it? because in the european union, whether we like it or not, we have a situation where you have a number of citizens in different countries who are being allowed to suffer blatant discrimination because of their age, or because of their disability, or because of their sexual orientation, or because of their gender, or because of the religion they profess. we have people in the european union who are not being allowed to open bank accounts because they are too old. why are same-sex couples not allowed to rent an apartment? why is a person who wants the state to recognize their gender identity considered by some countries as a threat? and why should a disabled person and disabled children not have the same opportunities as their peers to go to school or work? and while there are differences, i am convinced that an effort can be made to agree on the principle that equality is for all.
mr president, yes, indeed, there can be no place for discrimination in the european union. but why has the 11-year-old anti-discrimination directive not moved forward? i remember back in the year two thousand fourteen, commission president juncker said that one of the commission's priorities would be to convince the member states to agree on a directive implementing equal treatment for all persons, regardless of their religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. unfortunately, the directive has not yet moved from the point of death. the council was not convinced. we therefore very much expect, especially from the new commission, much more active cooperation with the member states in order to reach agreement on the adoption of this directive as soon as possible. and i really thank the finnish presidency very much for sitting down and discussing more fully the possibilities of moving this directive forward.
mr president, human rights are universal and human rights are subjective. there’s no legal international interpretation that they should be under the subsidiarity principle. this is the interpretation that international lawyers have about the universal declaration of human rights, and that the venice commission and the european council have. so, with due respect – or without that – i am just appalled, and it is a disgrace to the council that it has been stuck for 11 years with this anti—discrimination directive, hiding behind technicalities, subsidiarity and everybody else’s back. we have heard – and we can see every day – millions of testimonies about what the situation is. we owe this to european citizens. we owe them the right not to be discriminated against. i would like to thank the presidency for taking the initiative.
mr president, this debate may be about discrimination outside the workplace, but nothing will change until discrimination is ended at work. money, respect, social mobility start there and nothing will change until the eu recognises and addresses the fact that this entity is institutionally racist. ten percent of europeans come from racial and ethnic communities, yet the european union directly employs less than one percent from a minority background. there has never been a black commissioner, afro—belgians living in the home of the eu are twice as likely to have a degree than the average population but four times more likely to be unemployed. the eu’s motto is ‘united in diversity’. it should be ‘united in diversity, as long as you are white’. if, after eleven years, the eu wants to end discrimination, it must start with itself. will the commissioner commit tonight to making the next hire a person of colour.
madam president, at the time of the turkish invasion about seven thousand children of isis fighters lived in camps in northern syria. among them about 700 eu citizens. many were forced to flee and their fate is now unknown. we cannot abandon these children, or punish them for the crimes of their parents. no child under 10 is criminally liable in any eu member state. i call on member states today to comply with international, european and national laws and repatriate these children now, before it is too late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in less than a month erdogan has violated international law by invading syria, initiating ethnic cleansing and showing, as amnesty international points out, a shameful disregard for civilian life, committing serious human rights violations and war crimes. the decision of many member states, unfortunately not all, to suspend arms supplies to ankara is therefore welcome, but it is not enough. we must first of all put an end to the farcical procedure of turkey's accession to the union. the prerequisites for this have long since disappeared. the european union must also block any european funding that might end up in erdogan's pockets. we are paying dearly for the choice to hide under a turkish carpet, behind a high price, the problem of migration flows which are now being used as a constant scarecrow to silence us. thirdly, we must not be afraid to use the full range of options at our disposal: the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, including targeted economic sanctions, suspension of trade preferences and suspension of the eu-turkey customs agreement. the consequences of our past mistakes are painfully plain to all. we are not abandoning the kurdish people, for the umpteenth time, at least we europeans are not.
madam president, we witness the shame of the abandonment of those who fought isis on the front lines. it is a real shame that these 300 000 displaced children - 70 000 according to unicef - are suffering from a turkish military operation which is illegal from the point of view of international law. trump tolerating this is to be expected; the european union doing nothing is absolutely shameful. we must not only condemn the turkish military operation, but we must certainly demand a withdrawal and we must demand that the united nations mandate be fulfilled, that multilateral dialogue in the region, the geneva framework, be resumed and that security council resolution 1325 be respected, and above all we must promote a united nations mission in the region. we must also take our own responsibility: we cannot tolerate, in any way, that erdogan intends to return syrian refugees to that area. we must open up resettlement routes, because this is also our responsibility and we have been blind to this for too long. what about the weaponry? we have not been able to reach a decision beyond the new arms export licences to turkey. we must also stop the export of arms which is being produced with licences already granted. look: in syria europe has failed, because of pragmatism, because of laziness... and we must stop being spectators, we must take responsibility, because the humanitarian crisis is also our responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. once again turkey is at issue here, once again president erdoğan is at issue - this time not because of a lack of press freedom, a lack of human rights, the internal situation in turkey, no, this time because of an aggressive war in northern syria. the entire region is destabilized. there is also a big loser: once again the kurds, who have never received the necessary support from the international community in recent years - and who are the largest people on the planet without a state of their own. i demand that we finally draw the right conclusions. i don't know how many isis fighters are now free to leave the region and head for europe. the consequences to be drawn: finally ending turkey's status as a candidate for accession to the european union, finally ending its pre-accession assistance, and finally considering sanctions and finally imposing an arms embargo, because the situation as it stands is intolerable. i'm asking you not to bury your heads in the sand.
madam president, i find myself wondering what on earth turkey thinks it’s doing with its military aggression in north-east syria. haven’t they an ounce of humanity? don’t they recognise the huge suffering that nation has already seen through civil war, through isis, through bombing, and yet here we stand debating turkey, which is still, on paper, a candidate for eu accession. when brexiteers pointed out the instability of the erdoğan regime, we were smeared by this chamber. we were accused of all kinds of awful things for pointing out that erdoğan’s world view is incompatible with modern democracy. those who have turned a blind eye can do so no longer and you should look in the mirror when you see what you have enabled. i’m going to sit back down now and resist the temptation to say i told you so.
madam president, a serious humanitarian crisis is rapidly developing in north—eastern syria. erdoğan will not tolerate the existence of a kurdish democratic society in the region and seems set on a brutal offensive. within the last two weeks, more than 176 000 people, including 80 000 children, have been displaced. we have heard from other speakers about the many reasons why we should protect these children and the kurdish population who live there by right. yet it is not only lives and homes that will be lost if turkey’s invasion is prolonged. academics and political idealists the world over have admired rojava’s democratic society, where women are empowered and humans live in harmony with the earth. let us remember that the eu itself was born as a collaborative political experiment to combat authoritarianism and militarism. it is our task to support our nearest and weakest neighbours in resisting those same threats. the world is watching. what is needed is not just words but the kind of sanctions that work.
madam president, turkey is carrying out ethnic cleansing with the aim of eradicating the kurdish element from the region, taking advantage of the space left by the americans when they left. the european union is the only one that is paying the bill, apart from the victims of turkish atrocities, without being able to take any initiative to stop the turkish invasion. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of the terrorist groups, which are the most powerful in the world. the european union as a whole cannot continue to be held hostage to erdoğan's blackmail. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, the kurdish fighters, the christian arabs, the turkmen fought for the honour of humanity. what happened to our humanity? these are the words of bérivan güzel, a belgian, european and kurdish citizen, who spoke to us this morning. we are kurds today, faced with the illegal operation launched by turkey in kurdistan. an american president who makes the worst decisions, a turkish president who bombs the syrian kurds - the most determined resistance against the barbarity of daesh - these men and women who fought for us, who fought for their freedom, who fought for our freedom. the irony of all this is that these enemies of democracy are strengthened at the end of the race. bashar al-assad, today, almost legitimate, is a record! so where is europe in all this? a european arms embargo rejected by our ministers is incomprehensible, and then - and this is our paragraph 13 - we reduce the pre-accession funds paid to turkey, we stop asking the question, we freeze without touching the civilian population. to regain our lost dignity, that's the price.
madam president, the uk has finally suspended arms exports to turkey: too little too late. we now want economic sanctions, but our intentions are futile when the eu continues to pay this rogue state to further commercial and expansionist ambitions. the kurds, in their tens of thousands, stood shoulder to shoulder with europe to protect us from brutal terrorists. thousands laid down their lives. they should be rewarded. instead, the eu does nothing, while erdoğan uses eu bribes to fund his war and commit human rights atrocities, from the murder of civilians to chemical weapons. what price the life of a kurd? based on the eur 1 500 a day the eu gives to turkey and the 160 000 kurdish people now displaced, apparently one cent. this is not only a tragedy but a major historical betrayal, and i implore this morally bankrupt political bloc to change course. it’s funny: everybody in this chamber is in agreement on this. so the executive must take heed or they prove this parliament is pointless. (applause)
madam president, turkey’s offensive against kurds in northern syria has devastated medical facilities, civilians, and deprived thousands of people of access to clean water. this is helping isis to revive and further destabilise the region. some member states promptly banned arms sales to turkey. liberal democrat meps wrote to the uk prime minister to demand we also stop enabling genocide. the uk has now promised to issue no new export licenses, but will not review licenses already granted. this is a moral halfway house that is not acceptable and donald trump supporting actions in this matter underlines the need for a strong, effective europe. if we give arms to those who commit crimes we are responsible as those who pull the trigger. there has been no real prospect of turkey joining the eu for many years. the time has come to formally end turkey’s status as an eu candidate country.
madam president, commissioner, you have the opportunity to see unanimity here. yes, i heard that both the council and the commission are criticizing this attack and turkey's invasion of syria. and we criticize, but is it enough just to criticize? we have a resolution we're voting on tomorrow, but is it enough? i believe that the european union, together with other international institutions, has an obligation to intervene concretely. and what can we do? of course, turkey is important, turkey is an important market, but what do we choose between economic development of the internal market and the security of citizens? people are dying there, children are dying, women are dying, citizens are dying whom we really have to defend, because one of the objectives of the european union is also to ensure security and peace. as mr juncker said yesterday: yes, we have peace in the european union, but is it enough? we have an international responsibility and i think we need to do more than a resolution.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this exchange of views was useful and timely. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable members for their interventions, comments and suggestions. turkey’s unilateral military action in north-east syria has, and is, causing unacceptable human suffering. it undermines the fight against daesh, it threatens european security. for all these reasons, the european council on friday again urged turkey to end its military action to withdraw its forces and respect international humanitarian law. as you know, the matter has been referred to the european council, which will continue to follow it. meanwhile, the european union remains engaged in efforts to address the serious humanitarian and refugee crisis in light of evolving needs. we insist that any and all parties on the ground grant full, unimpeded and safe access to humanitarian workers responding to people in need of urgent life-saving assistance. the protection of civilians must remain an absolute priority. now regarding the so-called sochi agreement last night, the de-escalation of hostilities in north-east syria will hopefully save lives, and prevent further civilian suffering. as such, we welcome it as an attempt to achieve an end to the current cycle of violence. we can expect it to take some time before the consequences of the agreement reached in sochi play out. however, one thing has not changed: what is needed to end the syrian conflict on a permanent basis is an overarching political settlement for the whole of syria negotiated by the syrians for the syrians, in line with un security council resolution 2254. all parties must come to the table in geneva at the end of this month and from there build a lasting solution. allow me to express my appreciation for your continuing commitment to seeing a peaceful resolution to the long-running syria conflict.
thank you, minister tuppurainen, and also my thanks to commissioner stylianides, who has been with us for the debate and listening closely to it. i have received seven motion for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 october 2019. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. we have faced a major problem over the past week, as the european union has been unable to act in a united way against an autocratic regime that has destabilised the region and launched a war against the syrian kurds, causing a humanitarian crisis. all this happened because the hungarian government is making every effort to dismantle the community that we have been working to bring closer and more united for decades. viktor orbán, the hungarian prime minister, has clearly stated that this military intervention is in hungary's interest. but we, the true democrats of europe, can never have an interest in the murder of innocent people because of the aggressive, reckless policy of viktor orbán.
in writing. the turkish invasion of northeastern syria is in breach of international law, is creating further instability in the region and has also led to new casualties. unfortunately, this has brought with it the threat of isis's strengthening, among other concerns. as many isis fighters who have moved to syria from europe are attempting to return to europe, european countries need to be more effective in preventing the risks that this poses. the eu can contribute to resolving the situation with turkey by entering into a dialogue with it immediately. any threats against the eu in relation to refugees are unacceptable. however, it is important that the eu continues to play a role in addressing the refugee crisis in syria's neighbouring countries.
in writing. the european union must now react swiftly and decisively to the unilateral military operation by turkey in north-east syria. we have basically been watching from the sidelines as 300,000 people have been forced to leave their homes. the european union must respond to such serious violations of international law much more swiftly and vigorously than it has done so far. turkey must withdraw all its troops from the area. turkey's actions undermine the stability and security of the entire region. the eu parliament proposes that we should seek to establish a un-led safe zone in northern syria. the european union should also introduce targeted sanctions against turkey. the eu should also be able to provide a strong signal to turkey that the military operation must be stopped by imposing visa bans on authorities responsible for human rights violations, suspending trade preferences for agricultural products and, as a last resort, suspending the eu-turkey customs union. these are the means to be used. the past few weeks have put the european union in a serious position. we must be able to be stronger and more united in our foreign policy in the future. only then can the eu be a credible actor and defend internationally the values that unite us.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to inform you of the following in connection with the election of the ombudsman: on 16 september 2019, the president informed you that the procedure for the election of the ombudsman had been opened. by the end of the deadline of 30 september 2019, the president has received five nominations, all of which are considered admissible. the candidates are listed in alphabetical order as follows: mr giuseppe fortunato, mrs julia laffranque, mr nils muižnieks, mrs emily o'reilly and mrs cecilia wikström. information on the candidates and other relevant documents are available on the parliament's dedicated website. the president has sent the nominations to the committee on petitions. the committee will organise candidate hearings open to all members on 3 december 2019.
i thank you very much, mr rivière. you're not the only one who's turned to the services of the house. the matter is being investigated.
i would like to begin by welcoming mr giorgi zereteli, president of the osce parliamentary assembly, to the plenary. we are pleased to welcome mr giorgi zereteli, president of the parliamentary assembly of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, to the podium. mr zereteli, it is an honour to welcome you to strasbourg today. we wish you a successful debate in the european parliament.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, this is ridiculous. we cannot follow this. it’s too quick. the interpreters cannot follow. you need to slow down. people have worked hard on this budget. it might be an idea that we actually get the right votes.
mr president, the vote wasn’t actually open for us to vote on that occasion.
mr president, of course easo is one of our security priorities and the storms we have seen and the violence by some of the refugees in malta are unacceptable. but it's equally unacceptable the kind of wrongdoing that's been taking place at the agency level. we're talking about the discharge for 2017. i supported this motion for a resolution, but as my rapporteur said, there are so many really serious problems with the agency's work at this particular time, whether it is in the area of public procurement, where eur 7.7 million, representing 10% of all payments made by this agency, which is dedicated to asylum, was incorrect. then there's the recruitment issues, the director had to resign last year. i wish the new leadership to set up a truly executive agency that is transparent and that we need.
mr president, like mr roos and mr polčák, i voted to refuse discharge on the european asylum support office (easo). it has been reprimanded by numerous agencies, including the court of auditors and the european anti—fraud office. the most serious infringements include material and systematic instances of non—compliance of payments, breaches of procurement procedures, misappropriation of eu funds, abuse of position in human resources issues, breaches of data protection rules, harassment and inappropriate behaviour towards staff members. these wrongdoings are completely unacceptable, especially from an agency of such authority. therefore, i fully support this refusal and, like mr roos, i think total transparency is needed, and we might need to revisit this again to look for the same.
mr president, i would like to make a specific comment on the issue of discharge in relation to the european council and the council. here, the parliament's powers must be emphasised, since it is the only directly elected body of the european union and has powers in budgetary matters and, of course, in the matter of discharge. and there is a long-standing feeling of interinstitutional tension between parliament and the european council itself, and of course the council. the legitimacy of parliament is unquestionable, and if parliament repeatedly demands that the budget of the european council and the council itself be separate, that it be transparent, and this is not even discussed, i consider that to be a violation of parliament's rights. i think that this position of the european council and the council is unacceptable in the long term, and i wanted to point this out. i supported this motion for a resolution, but i think we will have to deal with this issue in the long term.
mr president, i couldn’t support the proposal to refuse discharge on the council of ministers. the council is a dreadful body; it’s totally secretive and it damages trust of the public in the eu, and they should be ashamed and should clean out their own stables, but refusing discharge is the wrong approach. the council will then start to amend our budget, then we will start to amend their budget and we end up in a pointless war, wasting everybody’s time. a much better procedure for dealing with the council’s secretiveness is for us to highlight individual examples of how the council wastes money: exotic meetings in exotic locations for the ministers when they don’t have much to discuss, and many other ways that they waste money and this is not the moment to express them. that would be the way to open up and shame them into transparency and spending taxpayers’ money properly.
mr president, it’s clear again that the eu council have failed once again to provide answers to the written questions that parliament has submitted, and that the secretary-general of the council failed to attend the hearing that was organised. additionally, the council did not take into account the recommendations proposed by parliament in the discharge resolution on 26 march 2019. this is not acceptable, and this vote will send a needed message to the council that this matter needs to be taken seriously. the house has a long-standing position that all eu institutions must be transparent and fully accountable to all the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them to perform their duties, and we must take responsibility to ensure that the council does so. i’m pleased that parliament is so upright in this regard.
the next item is the topical debate on climate and ecological emergency. i should like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch—the—eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the colleagues who are here and to thank the representatives from the finnish presidency. i hope that the climate emergency is also felt by the commission representatives, who i hope will join us as soon as possible. the sea level continues to rise at an increasing rate. extreme sea level events that usually happen once per century are projected to occur at least once per year until 2050 and in many different locations. wildfire is projected to increase significantly for the rest of the century. these are not my statements. these are just a few of the stark conclusions that the intergovernmental panel on climate change of the united nations presented in its latest report this september. the phrases ‘climate change’, ‘climate crisis’ and ‘climate emergency’ have been echoing through our streets and cities, and in this parliament too. we’ve had enough of empty rhetoric from those who say that they believe that climate change has to be addressed as a matter of urgency, but then duck out when push comes to shove, when the real binding measures that can make a difference are negotiated. citizens who are paying the high price of wildfires, droughts, floods and storms want leaders that are capable of addressing the real cause leading to this extreme weather. that is why the socialists and democrats have called for this debate. we are calling for a new approach on how to address the climate emergency we are facing, because a climate emergency it is. however, stating that this is an emergency is not enough because, if your house is on fire, you do not just press the alarm button and sit around waiting. you make sure that the fire brigade is coming and that the fire is extinguished. that’s why we want to start working now on a long-term economic, social and environmental plan with ambitious legislative proposals backed by sufficient financial investments and proper enforcement. to act on climate we need the money to finance the required transition as early as next year. it has to be both private and public money at the member state level and at the eu level too. achieving carbon neutrality requires a revolutionary transformation that has the potential to create new jobs, ensure our industrial competitiveness, enhance resilience, and improve air quality and human health. the socialists and democrats are calling for an ambitious plan for deep de-carbonisation, shifting subsidies from fossil fuels to support clean technologies, ensuring clean energy production, safeguarding our biodiversity, developing a new sustainable agricultural model that can also avoid food shortages, having in place afforestation and reforestation plans, preserving water resources and investing in new technologies that address water scarcity, renovating our building stock and ensuring the new energy-efficient building stock, and, importantly, having in place a strong just transition fund that ensures economic, environmental and social progress, leaving no one behind. we are calling for ocean-based climate action, which could deliver up to 21% of the emission reductions needed by 2015, further investments into developing ocean based renewable energy, de-carbonising marine transport through energy efficiency and alternative fuels, and restoring and protecting marine ecosystems and ocean-based food sources. awareness is increasing, our young people are speaking, and we have a choice to make. either we say that we have a crisis and do nothing concrete about it or we use this challenge to come out stronger, better and empowered. we, as socialists and democrats, choose the latter. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank you for inviting me to represent the council in this very topical debate. climate change is a direct and existential threat that spares no country. the world is already witnessing multiple devastating impacts of climate change. stepping up global action is therefore more urgent than ever in light of the latest scientific data, especially the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s special report on global warming of 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels. scientific evidence shows that human-induced global warming has already reached 1°c above pre—industrial levels and is rising at 0.2°c per decade. without stepping up international climate action, the global average temperature increase could reach 2°c soon after 2060 and continue to rise afterwards. in addition, climate change is increasingly contributing to the deterioration of global biodiversity, water resources and ecosystems. the arctic is warming at more than twice the global average rate, which is already having serious global, regional and local consequences. however, according to united nations reports, the nationally determined contribution submitted by parties to the paris agreement collectively falls far short of what is required to achieve the long-term goals of the agreement. although insufficient progress has been made until now, i see growing momentum for more ambitious action. it is a positive sign that there is increasing knowledge, awareness and concern about climate change and its effects on the world at large. it is particularly encouraging to see that civil society and citizens, especially the youth, are calling for more ambitious action. while human-induced climate change is caused by the way in which our societies have produced and consumed goods during the industrial age up to the present day, the engagement of the young people of today is vital if we want to implement those changes that will ensure that the planet will be fit to live in for future generations. the climate action summit last month was another welcome initiative to mobilise and boost the political will to step up collective efforts in line with the paris agreement. it is that shared awareness and collective will to effect change among governments, businesses and society as a whole that is needed in order to bring about the kind of paradigm shift and transformations of economies and societies that are needed to avert catastrophic climate change. the european union is determined to help raise global ambition and lead the way. it continues to successfully decouple its economic growth from its emissions. from 1990 to 2017 the eu’s economy grew by 58%, while total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 22%. the eu is set to overachieve its target for greenhouse gas reductions by 2020. it also has a complete package of legislation in place to ensure that it will reach its target for 2030 and thus also deliver its contribution to the paris agreement. however, we know that the policies that the eu has in place today will not be enough when we consider the scale of reductions needed in order to reach the long-term temperature goals of the agreement. therefore, rapid and far—reaching economic and societal transformation will be required in the coming decades. to this end, as is required of all parties, the eu will submit a long-term strategy for greenhouse gas emissions reductions with the united nations framework convention on climate change by 2020. with a view to preparing the european union’s long-term strategy, the council has been discussing since november last year how to achieve climate neutrality in line with the paris agreement, based on the commission’s strategic long—term vision – a clean planet for all. the scale of the economic and societal transformations needed in order to achieve climate neutrality in the eu will require efforts from all sectors of the economy. this is why it is so important that this debate is as broad, inclusive and extensive as possible across the eu and its member states. the transition will affect everyone and it must be carefully managed to ensure that it’s just and socially balanced for all citizens. we need to take into account the specificities of member states and different regions, ensuring that no one is left behind. on the other hand, the transition also offers great opportunities and potential for economic growth, new jobs and technological development to realise that potential investment into research and innovation needs to be scaled up, while ensuring that our industry is protected from competitive pressures in the global context. most member states agree with the objective of climate neutrality in the eu by 2050 and several member states have already set national targets contributing to that goal. we are continuing to work towards an agreement that all member states can sign up to and look forward to the european council finalising its guidance on the eu’s climate neutral vision before the end of 2019.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, you who represent the presidency of the council! i have the honour to represent my colleague, mr cañete, who is unable to attend and has asked me to take part in the debate with you. the new parliament and the new commission, which is due to be set up shortly, have - and rightly so - made sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection a priority. this extends to large parts of the house. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. we are not at the beginning of the europeanisation of sustainability and climate policy and the development of common rules, standards and funding instruments. on the global stage, we can say that europe has shown ambition both before paris and after paris and that we are serious about meeting the targets of staying well below 2°c and, if possible, reaching 1.5°c, as are many others on the global stage, but not all in the global discussion. it also makes sense to approach the whole thing in a european way. that is why we consider national special roads to be the next best thing. in a european single market, a union, the europeanisation of sustainability and climate protection makes a lot of sense. we have a proven tool for this, the ets the emissions trading system , which allows us to think about and decide on reductions on a regular basis, but which allows us to develop, in a non-bureaucratic and market-based way, about 50% of our emissions in a targeted way by 2020, 2030 and towards climate neutrality by 2050. the eec works for the energy industry and for industry. not included is mobility transport, traffic , not included is the building sector housing, heating and electricity in buildings , not included is agriculture. i think it might be interesting for a new commission and for a new parliament to discuss whether the eec could not be extended in a market economy to transport and transport emissions, transport and even to buildings and heating, heating, cooling and electricity consumption. there are initial approaches in some member states, but again, in the internal market, european solutions are the main ones that make sense. what are the possible instruments that a commission, with my colleague frans timmermans as its leader within the commission of the leyen, will propose to you? that's why i'm a little reserved today. the commission is responsible for the green deal, which will be presented to you, the council and the public within 100 days of the new commission taking office, and which is still subject to consultation and assessment. but what is clear is that we are going to rely on technology first. we are relying on advanced technologies that accelerate energy efficiency, capture emissions and make a significant contribution. horizon europe is a crucial programme for this. secondly, we are counting on the possibility of continuing to review the ems and, if necessary, of withdrawing quantities and thus increasing the price per tonne. parliament is at the centre of all the discussions here. my recommendation is to re-open this. thirdly, we have a 40% reduction target, and with the measures decided on in the old parliament - in the clean energy package, in the mobility package - we can achieve a 40% reduction target, or even 45% in 2030, according to our calculations. now the debate is about 50 percent or more. i believe that impact assessments are the priority here and then we have to decide whether we need to supplement, continue or even revise the packages of the last parliament from the last two years. it's about trade deals. since europe is responsible for only about 9% of all global greenhouse gases and their emissions, a trade agreement with other partners and joint emission reductions make a lot of sense. never has europe been more in demand than today, when we can guarantee investment protection through exports and imports with singapore, australia, new zealand, vietnam, mexico, mercosur, and then also make sustainability and climate protection important subjects of a trade agreement for us and for our contractual partners. it will be necessary to examine whether to impose carbon prices in the form of duties or taxes on imports into the european union, if necessary, in order to avoid the shifting of co2 emissions and to allow for fair competition. this has been mentioned by mrs von der leyen in this house as a test case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must consider whether the costs and benefits are politically balanced. the new budgetary framework currently being moderated by the president, which is slowly bringing us closer to the target, provides for 25% of all investment, of all expenditure, to be devoted to climate protection. this means that of the 160 billion euros a year, at least 40 billion euros are allocated to programmes - 40% for one programme, 60% for the second programme, and 0% for some programmes because they are not linked to environmental and climate protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the idea is relatively new. there are 41 coal regions in the european union in 12 member states, and accelerating structural change in these regions - poland alone has 19 of them - is an honourable objective. the earlier phase-out of coal for heat, coal for electricity, but always with the aim that this does not create an absolute disadvantage for jobs, workers, social justice in the structural change. the commission is currently preparing to consider how a just transition fund can be configured, how it must be endowed and what conditions are necessary for the call of funds. here, any input from this high house over the next few weeks is greatly appreciated. investeu: europe's structural banks will certainly be part of the instruments in the green deal. how can public funds european, national, regional and private funds be mobilised in the best and most efficient way? in short, your debate is a prelude. the green deal, the commission's proposal by mrs von der leyen and mr timmermans, will be a concrete basis for your deliberations. i am sure that this will enable us to continue the course of the old commission, of the last parliament, and perhaps to maintain the direction but to increase the speed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it’s clear that tackling climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, and quite rightly so; as has already been mentioned, it’s one of the key priorities of the new commission. as a christian democrat, i believe that we don’t own this planet. we’re guarding it and we’re keeping it for the next generations to come, and therefore we have a moral duty to look after it. in this debate i’m quite sure we will see those who, in a matter of speaking, will show their middle finger to the next generation, telling them that climate change doesn’t exist and refusing to take measures. we will also see those who will be telling you precisely what you can do, must do, or shouldn’t do: that you should insulate your house, that you should buy a tesla, even though you’re just struggling to make ends meet by the end of the month. therefore, the epp group believes that there should be a third way: a way that tackles climate change but that takes people along; that doesn’t put the burden on the shoulders of those who can least afford it; and that leaves no region behind. and then it’s too simple to only talk about a just transition fund. in the view of the epp, we shouldn’t only have a green deal or only have a european climate law, but also a strong industrial strategy to make sure that we have the cleanest, the most innovative industry that actually keeps jobs for those generations in the future who will need it. if we’re talking about sustainability in three regards – sustainability that, yes, indeed is environmental and tackles climate change, but that is also social and economical – we need to have a strong industry to make sure that we can also deliver on climate change. if colleagues are willing to work on these three aspects, the epp will clearly be their partner.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group knows that no institution, no legislator, no government can remain on the sidelines of the climate change disaster which is already causing so much suffering. we know that we have very little time to control warming and if we want to stop it we have to act with very strong and unprecedented measures as we have done so far. european citizens (93%) think it is a serious problem. but it's the young people, our children, who consider that this is an urgent problem, that this is a real crisis -- a climate crisis -- and that's why they go out every friday to demand that we act. on a finite planet, we consume too many resources and have too much waste. in some productive sectors, we waste 98 percent of what we produce. how are we not going to be able to rationalize and make a system of production and consumption much more reasonable, with a circular economy system that changes the paradigm from recycling to prevention, with the bio-economy, that knows that everything everything we use, all our natural resources must be conserved and protected in any production system, designing different, green cities, where 70% of citizens live and working on a decarbonization, on a zero carbon in our economy... to do that we need to include all sectors. this is cross-cutting and global and we have a problem. we don't have a binding global governance; we work through voluntary agreements. that's why the new york climate summit was important. the united nations told us: you have to put more agreements on the table, faster, more forceful. the european union showed ambition at this summit. the green deal is a good guide, it is a good map, but we must be aware that without the agreement and commitment of all the member states we will not have good results.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, my thanks to everyone for putting this topic on the agenda under the title ‘climate and ecological emergency’. that’s very crucial because, to be very honest, mr oettinger, if i hear you talk, i don’t really get an urgent feeling about the crisis that we are in the middle of, and that’s exactly the problem. the commission is talking about putting in place targets that we already decided five years ago. but science has advanced. if you read all the scientific reports that are coming out on a daily basis, it shows the urgency that we are facing. this is about our future, but this is also about opportunities as a european continent to really change our economy in a way that delivers on climate neutrality but also creates new jobs. all the reports are out there and still the council is struggling to agree on climate neutrality. maybe now in december – it took more than a year – and then we have next year, the last year before paris starts. are we going in with the same targets that we agreed five years ago? that’s not the urgency that our citizens are asking for. there is more that needs to be done and that urgency needs to become clearer, not only from a debate here, it needs to come from action from the council, from the commission, but also from this house because it is lovely to hear all the debates that we are having in this plenary but when we are talking policies, this house is also not delivering. at this moment we are discussing agricultural reform. the agriculture sector is an important sector that can deliver on climate action, but i’m challenging my colleagues then to deliver, not only in speeches here but also in making sure that the agriculture reform is going to be a truly green reform and not again just subsidising the bigger farms. and the last point on trades: let’s also make sure our trade agreements are in line with climate, so stop with these voluntary sustainability chapters but make them binding so that we are also really pushing this agenda internationally with the urgency that this matter deserves.
i am not going to say that it is surprising, but i will say that it is at least frustrating whenever we hear about tackling climate change and this urgency. you're addressing problems that are urgent, that are new, with the old solutions that didn't work and that brought us here. we ask him to tell us what the priorities are and he tells us about the carbon market, he tells us about trade agreements, he tells us about everything that has brought us to this catastrophe and that we are not able to respond to. we cannot combat the urgency of climate change, mr oettinger, with green economy measures that do not challenge the system, that have no public investment plans, that do not want a real energy conversion, that do not really want to work for environmental and social justice. i understand that you don't want to listen to the people on the street, but it's important to start listening to them, because otherwise we really have no plan, no plan and no planet to hand over to the new generations. mr. oettinger, there's no point in playing the green new deal if you don't actually have a trajectory to do it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what mr eickhout and mrs matias have said, and i think that it is really anachronistic to talk about the ets today and even to think of extending it to a market system which has not produced the reductions that we have been talking about, and i think that we are going backwards and do not want to deal with the urgency that we have before us. to address this urgency, i want to bring a further topic to the table, soil, because climate change and fighting climate change cannot be done without soil protection. it takes 2000 years to create 10 centimetres of fertile soil, which can be swept away by a cloudburst like the one that happened a few days ago in my region of lombardy or liguria. the european commission estimates that europe is losing 9 million tonnes of soil a year, the equivalent of 275 football pitches every day. in italy alone, one third of agricultural land suffers from severe erosion, costing the country €619 million a year. italy is losing 24 per cent of its territory, but it is not just an italian problem. france and spain are in the same situation. i know that the commission has announced a biodiversity strategy and i hope that this strategy will focus on the issue of soil protection, which contains as much as a quarter of biodiversity. i therefore ask the commission to set a target of neutrality in relation to land degradation by 2030, because without adequate soil protection we will not be able to combat climate change and to do this we need a holistic policy, which counters intensive farming, monoculture and uncontrolled and unregulated building.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i want you to act like it's a house on fire. these are not my words, they are those of greta thunberg, but i am addressing them to this committee. we are debating today a climate emergency, and that is exactly what it is about. we see scientists report after report, scientific study after scientific study, showing that we need much more leadership from the eu and the rest of the world if we are going to deal with the climate change that is required. it's easy to feel hopeless. it's easy to feel powerless. but, as we know, 'the night is the mother of the day' and from what we see today, we can create a future that brings more jobs, more innovation and more prosperity to europe. we can show the kind of leadership the world needs to see. but to achieve this, concrete action is needed and the eu has a special responsibility. the economic opportunities will only be there if we lead the economic transformation and innovation and create the green jobs that are needed to bring competitive advantage to europe and take the lead. for us social democrats, it is clear. we have the opportunity here. but then we also need to be much more ambitious. we therefore call for the eu to set a more ambitious target for 2030 and to reduce emissions by at least 55%, not the current 40%. it is also about ending the subsidies that we see today, which lead to the continued prosperity of the fossil fuel industries. they're counteracting the climate change that's required. equally important is that everyone contributes to this transformation. it is terrible that we have sectors that fly under the radar or sail under the radar. shipping must be brought under climate legislation with ambitious targets. the airline doesn't just have to pay 15 percent of its emissions. it's not dignified. we're asking for more from you. it's a climate emergency. but we will also look at the opportunities for europe to take the lead.
madam president, the urgency we must speak of in this house is not the urgency of scientific diagnosis - we all know that - but the urgency of action, action, action, action! and i am surprised, commissioner oettinger, that you are giving us the outgoing commission's report as a roadmap for the climate action emergency. europe is not on track with the paris agreement. the commission's proposal for a common agricultural policy is making us increase the greenhouse effect, making us increase the loss of biodiversity, when we should be doing the exact opposite. you support free trade agreements which are climate-destroying, which also contribute to the destruction of biodiversity. we have spent trillions of euros on the banks. maybe they needed saving. let's spend billions of euros on the climate. the european central bank, the european investment bank can act as a reserve to finance a major investment plan in housing insulation. it's about purchasing power, it's about jobs, it's about social justice and it's about freedom from putin and the rest. we can act for the good of europe. we can do something about the climate. it takes political will.
mr. president, every second counts when your house is on fire. how is it possible that we've been sitting here for years making weak compromises while our world is on fire? we have a big problem and we should actually declare a climate and biodiversity emergency. because one million species are currently threatened with extinction. the climate crisis threatens billions of people, animals and plants, and we will have to take action on all fronts, on all fronts. how is it possible, then, that europe is spending billions on environmentally unfriendly and climate-damaging subsidies for the livestock industry? the amazon forest is on fire to provide europe with cheap animal feed and cheap meat. livestock farming emits more greenhouse gases worldwide than all the cars, boats, trains, and planes combined! how is it possible, then, that the proposed climate commissioner timmermans continues to deny the need for fewer animals in the livestock industry? how are we going to meet the climate goals if we continue to spare the livestock industry? the cost of global action on climate change can be cut in half if we eat a little less meat, if we consume a little less dairy, and if we skip fish and eat a little more plant-based food. it doesn't have to take years. we could start any second! europe can encourage this by ending subsidies for the promotion of meat and dairy products. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, all the debates on climate change speak of the apocalyptic consequences if we don’t drastically change our energy sources and lifestyles. the same alarmism was present at the 1988 toronto summit, which compared climate change to nuclear war. it predicted temperatures would rise between 1.5 and 4.5°c by 2030. we are now over two thirds of the way through that period and we’ve seen a rise of only 0.25°c. in the 1970s, scientists told us we were entering into a new mini-ice age and they came up with the genius idea of dumping ash from power stations on the polar ice caps. clearly their temperature models were wrong then, and they’re wrong now. there is, frankly, more credibility with the theories such as sunspots, the milankovitch cycle and orbital variations than there is with anthropogenic warming, but by far the biggest impact of climate policies is on energy costs, living standards and the economy. simply put: decarbonisation is deindustrialisation. it amounts to unilateral disarmament. these policies replace the enormous tax revenues generated from fossil fuels, with taxpayer subsidies for rent-seeking renewable companies that generate no tax receipts to fund public services. this time will be remembered as history’s most expensive virtue signal ever committed knowingly by government.
madam president, the relationship between humankind and the earth we inhabit is in crisis, and all over the world we can see people’s frustration. over the past few months alone, over six million people worldwide have marched and demonstrated to ask policymakers like us to listen, to take action on the climate emergency, and to protect the natural world. we must listen to what they are saying. nature does not need people, but we need nature. how we choose to act now, and the choices we make about protecting our environment, will determine the future of humankind on this planet for the next 10 000 years. we here must make an ambitious european green deal a reality. we must ensure that the commission’s proposals for legislation over the next months reflect the ecological emergency and the climate chaos that our children, our grandchildren and future generations are facing. we cannot let them down.
madam president, the changes brought about by man's action in the environment are causing extreme phenomena to occur more and more frequently. forecasts predict climate migrations, flooding in coastal areas... reversing this threat requires addressing global climate objectives and spinning up domestic action. at local and regional level, battles such as mobility or waste are won and, from proximity, it is easier to make people aware of the impact of including the principle of sustainability in everyday life. that is why i propose that the fight against climate change be a horizontal axis in the budgets of all public institutions, that the energy they contract be 100% renewable and that this climate and environmental axis be a key in the presentation and accountability. the 2020 budgets in euskadi in the basque country test these formulas which can be a very good practice for the european union.
madam president, tackling climate change also means taking care of our land and soils. indeed, as you all know, in addition to plants, our land can also be an important lever for storing co2. at a growth rate of only 0.4% per year, the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere would be considerably reduced. but for that, the soil has to be healthy and alive, because a whole world of microorganisms, fungi, bacteria, insects and worms can live underground if, and only if, we don't destroy that ecosystem with chemicals and over-exploitation of that soil. so yes, we need an ecological transition in agriculture to restore natural balances and thus fight climate change. healthy soils, like air and water, are essential for life, biodiversity and the fight against global warming. so let us protect them with a framework directive on soil protection.
(mike's speech begins) ... europe has finally enforced the paris climate agreement, it's important that we lead the world in emissions trading and plastic bans, it's necessary that we do much more, for example in research, through hydrogen initiatives, through plastic export bans and much more. but europe must also use its economic power. we must stop the exploitation of resources in latin america, in china, in india. this is the global climate problem. let us cooperate wisely and for our mutual benefit economically with these countries, so that we can also have an environmental impact on them. but a green deal does not insult the people there and here - not the people who work in the steel industry, in agriculture, in mining, in the automobile industry. a green deal also takes people and jobs, all over the globe. a green deal does not threaten the end of the world. a green deal also takes advantage of people's and businesses' self-interest in a sustainable environment. climate action must also be allowed to make money, to save money. climate action has to be fun, too, and then the smart deal is a really good deal.
madam president, we have ten years left to try and avoid environmental and ecological breakdown. the science is clear and free of political spin. politicians who choose to ignore them are failing to protect citizens, and this is why a record 7.6 million people around the world, many of them schoolchildren, took to the streets last month to demand urgent action. when those children ask you what you did when there was a chance to act, what will you say? i’ll say: i was one of the people who got my local council to be the first in london to declare a climate emergency and have plotted a course and a timetable to get to carbon neutrality by 2030. and we will do the same to ensure the london assembly and the uk government deliver on their commitments. i’d also like to say: and i was one of those who persuaded the eu to end fossil fuel subsidies, put a tax on aviation and helped ensure the eu got to carbon neutrality by 2030 and used its influence to get other nations to do the same. if you want a future, we must act now.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr commissioner, mr president of the court! this is an important debate, a thank you to the court of auditors, which plays a very important role and these are not compliments, but statements of fact and it is very much needed. in 2018, union expenditure totalled almost eur 157 billion. this amount represents 1% of the union's gross national income and corresponds to approximately 2% of the total public expenditure of the member states of the union. it is crucial that the spending of these funds is not only in line with the rules, as is clear, but also that it delivers the intended results. the court gives a qualified opinion on the expenditure for the financial year 2018, as the estimated level of error in the expenditure budget was 2,6%. that's obviously within the range of the estimated error rates for the last two years. only the year before, the error rate was 2.4 percent. my question is, is this just starting to go up because it's 0.2% higher, or is it cosmetic, statistical and not a problem? maybe that's going to be a problem in the future. i think we can be happy here with entitlement-based payments. my time is running out, so i just want to thank the commissioner and the president of the court for the good cooperation with our budget control committee.
madam president, the latest european court of auditors’ report shows the level of irregularities in eu budget spending rose in 2018: eur 4.1 billion of the budget was misspent – but it’s worse than that. on page 168 you state that the transactions from the eu commission’s climate department, which manages a budget of eur 864 million, were not audited because we did not sample any transactions in the area of climate action in 2018. we have no audit results. on page 189, under the global europe budget heading, where eur 9.5 billion of taxpayers’ money was spent in over 150 countries across the world, you say the number of transactions audited was not sufficient to estimate the level of error. let me make one thing absolutely clear: i do not want my country paying another penny piece into the european union’s coffers. hard-line remainer cowards in my country are currently running scared of an election. well they can run, but they can’t hide for much longer. a day of reckoning is coming in my country in the form of a general election. in that election the choice will be clear: sign up to a european treaty where we hand over billions for years to come in a transition that will go years into the 2020s, or take back control with a clean-break brexit. the brexit party won the european elections in my country. that’s why we’re here, and we’re going to make our presence felt in the general election to come.
madam chairman, i thought the monty python circus was over, that they had announced their end, but colleague heaver here keeps telling me that monty python keeps on going on with his show and he and his crew keep on playing monty python and they keep on doing it. i don't know, mr. heaver, you must have had a problem with reading. you didn't read the report. your dates are entertaining us again and watch everyone laugh at you. because this is where you put pears and apples together. i'm not keeping you here. really, if you want brexit, there's the door and go. we're just waiting for britain to tell us when it's leaving. and you go. i really do. no one's keeping you here. and the report. yes, the report itself is a dig at audits in the european union. it's a result of the fact that there was work on audits related to the european institutions. and this audit shows that there are still a number of things that we can improve. and in particular, in those special reports, we have to focus on making it more efficient in how that money is spent and how that money is then presented within the european union and what exactly is the specific output that we're going to be working with. and i think that report is a good basis for discussion with the european commission. in the five years that i have been an mep, a lot has changed. and i'm glad that the next commissioner, commissioner hahn, will continue this effort for change. thank you, and i look forward to the blue cards. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
blue-card question. – first of all i would just like to congratulate the fellow mep. he has a lot of support in the chamber, which is always good to see. the question i have for the honourable member is the following. you used the analogy of monty python, and i think it’s a very good analogy. in ‘the life of brian’, i think it was mr creosote who devoured as much food as he possibly could in an orgy of largesse. in many ways it’s a very good analogy between the budget of this place, which just devours more and more the wafers, the buffets. do you agree that that’s the correct analogy?
madam president, dear commissioner, i have to say that i am surprised to see so much passion during the presentation of the court of auditors’ annual report. i didn’t expect that, but it’s nice to see. a lot has been said about the numbers, statistics and percentages in it, and rightly so. but i would like to talk about what stays behind the numbers and namely people, companies and their projects. it’s good that you’re searching for error rates. this is your job. you are the taxpayers’ best friend. but along with searching for errors in our project, we should consider what the quality of this project is. did it reach the goal that it was designed for? did it reach it in the correct way? so along with looking at how funds were spent, we should also look at how goals were reached. and we have to consider that one of the reasons that in the fifth year of this programing period we absorbed only 30% is because of bureaucracy. so we need a risk-based control. those beneficiaries who have a good track record and know how to use eu funds deserve less control. those who constantly make errors need more control. this is the way that we can find a balanced solution to serve the taxpayers’ interest and to encourage beneficiaries to work even more with eu funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of auditors' 2018 annual report shows that the financial situation of the european union has improved compared to previous years, although, as we have said, there are still some areas where errors and fraud have a significant impact on the budget, in particular in high-risk expenditure under the cohesion funds and in financing for agriculture. the court itself has, however, noted that the complexity of the rules governing access to european funds leads to many errors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. and then more needs to be done in terms of prevention, if we consider, for example, that only 11 member states have a formal anti-fraud programme. the commission should therefore promote greater regulatory and operational uniformity in the union and urge states to adopt anti-fraud policies and to activate all available internal prevention and control strategies, precisely for the better protection of the union budget.
madam president, walking across the sitting room, i turned the television off. yet another news story about eu largesse. but i say, in the spirit of tonight, always look on the bright side of life. we are leaving the eu. and my name is brian. in the previous life of brian, i was chair of the scottish parliament audit committee for four years and this report’s figures do not fool me. the report shows a 2.6% error rate –eur 4 billion. eur 4 billion is more than what some member states actually pay into the eu. let’s consider goals, like some examples of paying for flights for staff to jamaica on a pollution budget. the funding of a radio drama series in mozambique. there are areas where no audit happens. when funding is given to a country outside the eu, no audit takes place. when eu funding goes to multiple donor projects, compliance is assumed, not inspected. many budgets, as my colleague pointed out, have insufficient transactions to be audited, meaning again that they are not included in the error count. here’s an idea. it’s very simple. if you cannot audit it, don’t spend it. that’s the way to improve your budget audit.
madam president, i find myself speaking on this issue on the day, a black terrible day, when 39 – 39 – people have died being trafficked into the united kingdom, reportedly including at least one child, on a journey that took them through many member states. earlier this year i spent some time listening to refugees around the english channel who had previously crossed the mediterranean, almost all of them, and their experiences come in three stages: destruction in their homeland; secondly, movement to north africa, which they find remains unsafe; and thirdly, they brave the danger of the mediterranean because they simply have no other choice. and in some member states, refugees remain victimised, driven into the hands of these people smugglers, forced to make these more and more dangerous journeys, and children left unaccompanied. we should not listen for one moment to those who oppose search and rescue. let’s get on and save these lives.
mr president, i am proud to be from the political party that created the national health service. the labour party made it a universal right for everyone, from cradle to grave, that they should be entitled to healthcare that is free at the point of use, and we did this just after the second world war when rationing was still in place. we are a party that wants a truly universal health service, by scrapping prescription charges, taking on big pharma and delivering free personal care, so that our healthcare system puts public health ahead of private wealth and people before profit. this is a basic human right, but sadly, not everyone has such a vital safety net. however, i am proud that the eu has supported 57 million women to use contraception, immunised 13 million children, given 11 million life-saving treatments for hiv and distributed 600 million bed nets for malaria prevention. we must work towards the 2030 agenda of universal healthcare for all, and make sure that we continue with the commitment of not leaving anybody behind.
member of the commission. – mr president, madam minister, honourable members, thank you for your lively and most useful debate. i believe that it has come out very clearly that we all share the values of universality, quality and equity of access to health care that underpin the goal of universal health coverage and that all health systems in the european union are built on. the adoption of the un declaration is an important achievement, as it promotes key eu values. but we need to make sure that the important commitments made by the un member states will now turn into concrete actions across the globe. in that vein, we welcome the fact that the declaration includes a formal review mechanism that allows us to take stock of the progress made in 2020 and 2022. the results should serve as a basis to adapt our approach and efforts before reconvening for another high-level meeting in 2023 for a comprehensive review of the implementation of the commitments made. the european union will continue supporting all countries willing to make progress towards universal health coverage through our external actions, including the external side of relevant eu policies and our international partnerships at country, regional and global level.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i wish to thank the honourable members for the very useful debate and assure you that this presidency of finland will spare no effort to continue to promote universal access to health care, which all human beings need, in particular the most vulnerable, when and where they need it. this is also in line with the so-called economy of well-being approach introduced by the finnish presidency. in our thinking, universal health coverage is a sustainable investment. particular attention should – and will – be devoted to the needs and rights of women and girls, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. the eu and its member states, as key supporters of multilateralism with the united nations at its heart, together with the european parliament, will promote and protect those rights in the context of the review of the international conference on population and development and the beijing platform in action in 2020. so thank you very much again for your attention, and now i think it’s time to say goodnight and sleep well. it is good for our health.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, the un high level political declaration on universal health care is a significant step towards achieving the sustainable development goal. universal health coverage means that everyone, especially the most vulnerable, has access to essential health care. sustainable development goal 3.8 is to 'achieve universal health coverage, including protection from economic risks, access to quality and essential health care services, and safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all'. the eu must take a leading role in advancing universal health care for its citizens and internationally. there is still a lot to be done in this area, including within the eu. the attitude of some member states to sexual and reproductive health and rights is of particular concern.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the situation of lgbt people in uganda (2019/2879 ((rsp)). before we start the debate, i would like to inform you that to ask for a 'catch-the-eye' or to ask a question with a blue card, you can use both the usual registration method and the new electronic registration system. i would therefore ask you to carry your voting card with you at all times. if you wish to sign up for the catch-the-eye process, you can start now without waiting for the end of the conversation.
author. – mr president, i am very pleased that we have such strong cross-party support for this debate on this resolution in this parliament today. i think this is testament to how far attitudes have moved in my own lifetime, indeed. we stand here today in solidarity with those brave members of sexual minorities in uganda and elsewhere who face not just public prejudice, but also the full force of the state aimed at repressing their very nature. the bravery of those activists is truly admirable. they stand up in the most hostile of circumstances to say ‘we are who we are. we are equal in dignity and rights and we should be free’. the situation in uganda is indeed very worrying. the killing of brian wasswa earlier this month was a horrific act and the perpetrator must be brought to justice. the deliberate stoking of anti-gay hatred by government ministers must be absolutely and strongly condemned. with this resolution we are calling on the ugandan government to fully respect the rights of lgbtqia people, not just to stop the whole hate-filled rhetoric but to ensure that ugandan law does not discriminate against anyone on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. today we say to everyone fighting for those rights in uganda, and worldwide: we in europe stand with you.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, we still remember the debates in 2014 when uganda introduced a law to punish homosexuality with the death penalty and it was precisely the pressure of the international community that made this law be withdrawn. however, in uganda, homosexuality is still within the penal code and punished with harsh penalties. the daily life of lgbt people is very hard because they do not have access to basic services such as education or health, and we have witnessed with alarm the announcement of a possible return to tighten that law with more severe punishments such as the death penalty again. we are glad that this is not the case, but this resolution sends a very clear message: we cannot allow a single step backwards in the progress, in freedom, in the rights of the lgbtq community. in uganda we just need to take steps forward, we need to decriminalize homosexuality because it is not a crime and sexual orientation is a human right. and the european union must use political dialogue to defend the rights of these people.
mr president, discrimination against anyone on the grounds of their sexuality is absolutely abhorrent. there are around half a million lgbti people in uganda and yet homosexuality is still illegal. same—sex marriage is constitutionally banned and lgbti people are unable to express themselves freely. they are oppressed. they are socially imprisoned and often violently attacked. but fortunately, attitudes in uganda are shifting rapidly. in 2007, a poll showed that 96% believed that same—sex relationships should be outlawed, but by 2017 an ilga poll found that number had dramatically dropped to just 54% – so social and cultural change is happening. but the bigger question is, why is the eu meddling yet again in the affairs of a democratically—elected country? this talking shop will not help people in uganda. hollow words in this chamber may make us feel self—righteous, but they have no impact at all on the persecuted lgbti people in uganda. uganda itself must reform and it must allow lgbti people to live and love in peace.
mr president, i’d like to ask a question of not only my colleagues, but all those listening. what gives you the right – any right: the right to live, to love, to work, to freedom, to health? what gives you your rights? and what gives anyone, any government, any religion, the right to take that away from you – to take away your human rights? by signing this resolution, by my vote today, and my continuing work as an activist, as an mep in my own country and area, i say: no. you do not have the right. you can’t take away human rights of lgbti people – in uganda or anywhere. i urge this parliament and people everywhere to join me in this fight in uganda, in europe, and in our home countries.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to highlight just one case: the case of ibrahim ezz el-din, who is an egyptian human rights defender and a researcher specialising in housing rights at the egyptian commission for rights and freedom (ecrf). he was arrested on 11 june near his home in cairo and taken to an unknown location. since then, his family have not had any contact with him, the local police station denies his presence within their premises, and the attorney general has not responded to numerous queries. ibrahim’s arrest is believed to be linked to his criticism of government housing and urban planning policies, including shanty towns and evictions. he is the fifth staff member of ecrf to be arrested since 2016 as part of a crackdown on human rights defenders in egypt. i urge parliament to recognise this as one of many urgent cases in egypt and call on the egyptian authorities to take all necessary measures for the safe release of ibrahim ezz el—din and so many other human rights defenders in egypt.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many activists, how many journalists, how many representatives of minorities, students, ngos, how many women, how many persecuted minors. it is difficult to find areas where the violence of the egyptian government, whether structured or not, explicit or otherwise organized, has not been abolished, and let us remember that the death penalty is still in force. many are awaiting the death penalty. we know that the internal situation is not easy, that egypt, a partner which remains important, is going through a complex phase, that the neighbourhood is restless, but we cannot remain silent, deny or turn our heads. egypt cannot be a victim of extremism, but at the same time it cannot remain a hostage to pervasive and constant repression, accompanied by discrimination and smear campaigns. the embarrassing silence on the case of the researcher giulio regeni is emblematic, swallowed up in a gulf of silences, misdirections, falsehoods, reluctance. this incident, which was well-stigmatised by the resolution, remains a heavy and disturbing shadow on the country. exports of arms to be effectively and immediately blocked, funds allocated to be frozen if the conditionalities are not respected: that's what it takes to be consistent, that's what it takes to have truth and justice for giulio regeni.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again to denounce the serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in egypt, which show no signs of abating with arbitrary detention, the use of torture and repression. we said so in my report on the arab spring which was adopted last april. we cannot now tolerate close cooperation with countries which do not respect our fundamental values or which do not cooperate with us in judicial investigations concerning citizens of the european union. i am referring in particular to the case of giulio regeni, which is still unsolved after more than three years. this was reiterated by president conte to al-sisi himself last august. italy is not giving up on the truth. the cairo prosecutor's office has agreed to a new meeting with the rome prosecutor's office. we'll see how cooperative they are or how much of a mirror they have left for the larks. we denounce the climate of impunity and the absence of a credible investigation, the refusal of the egyptian authorities to provide italy with the documents and information necessary for a prompt, transparent and impartial investigation, in line with international obligations. we ask that the extradition to italy of the five suspects in the case be granted as soon as possible, as requested by the prosecutor in rome. we will not rest until we have the truth about giulio regeni.
mr. chairman, please! egypt is a key country for ensuring stability in the middle east and north africa region. it is a very important economic partner for the european union. it plays a very important role in migration processes. let's recall that egypt has taken in a lot of refugees from syria. it is, first and foremost, a very important country in the ongoing war on terror. the egyptian authorities are fighting very hard against islamic terrorists in the sinai peninsula. over the past year, egypt has seen a wave of demonstrations. more than 2,500 people were arrested. the european union authorities should not be passive and should protest, especially against political arrests. i am glad that the european union is doing this, but the reality is not black and white. among the organizers of the demonstration were many people associated with the muslim brotherhood. there were a lot of extremists associated with isis among the participants in these demonstrations. i'm glad that president al-sisi is doing a lot to protect egyptian christians. but these efforts are still not enough. according to open doors, 108 egyptian christians were killed in 2017 alone. i appeal to the president... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr president, when president el-sisi became president of egypt in 2014 he had a basic contract with the people of egypt, which was to deliver stability, security and economic prosperity, in return for near total control. it was a very similar contract to the one that the eu has taken upon itself for the people of the european union. that contract is all well and good for as long as stability, security and economic prosperity continue, and like the european union, the wheels came off in egypt, and his response to the wheels coming off the economy was to tighten his grip on power, to tighten his grip on the people. and the european union's response is exactly the same – it wishes to tighten its grip every time something goes wrong. and here's a warning. do not tighten your grip anymore. we may be a long way from egypt at the moment, but we will fast catch up. loosen your grip.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i’m speaking on this matter because of the fundamental importance of human rights across the world and in particular the role we, as the european parliament, can play. a few weeks ago, myself and others stood on the steps of the parliament in brussels to celebrate international safe abortion day. the world has come a long way in recognising the rights that women have over their bodies. but the journey is far from over. unfortunately, and sadly, the new criminal code in indonesia is another backward step on that journey. human rights watch has said that the indonesian draft criminal code is not just bad for women, minorities and gender minorities but for all indonesians. the european union has a loud voice, and we should use that loud voice to continue on that journey of equality. we must be clear: gender equality can never be achieved if only half the population has autonomy over their bodies. gender equality goes to the heart of human rights, and we must fight for those rights.
mr president, i continue to be both amazed and appalled that, in 2019, we still have laws that discriminate and try to regulate basic human rights like having sex outside of marriage or keeping people who love each other from being married. this criminal code violates everything i believe in. it should be stopped, and i am proud that we are standing up in solidarity for the lgbt community, women and others in indonesia who would be affected by it.
madam president, i have voted for the strongest possible condemnation of turkish president erdoğan’s invasion of northern syria, and seeing erdoğan and putin stitching up this shameful deal on northern syria with the meek compliance of donald trump represents a tragic day for the people of syria and especially for those in the kurdistan region. responsibility for this turn of events seems to me to lie in large part with president trump for his grotesque betrayal of his kurdish allies. i’m delighted the european union is taking a strong stand on this. in a dangerous world, when human rights and the rights of minorities seem constantly at risk and when our allies like the usa are currently proving so unreliable, it has never been more clear that all the 28 countries of the european union, including the united kingdom, should speak together with one strong voice on foreign policy whenever we can.
madam president, i’m delighted that we are here celebrating the 30th anniversary of this convention. i’m also delighted that the commission and the council have recognised the particular vulnerability of some groups of children, particularly those caught up in conflict, migrant children, roma children and those with disabilities. we have a duty to ensure we do all we can to ensure that there are stable and usable routes for migrant and refugee children to be reunited with safe family members, in safe countries. and all member states must recognise their responsibility to assist with protecting these especially vulnerable children. we also have a responsibility in this parliament to take seriously the rights of children to be heard and at this time, there are children across the world who are raising their voices to be heard by politicians and policy-makers. the climate strikes, led by greta thunberg and involving millions of children, are the clearest example of children uniting to make their voices heard, and they are right. the challenges of climate change will have a huge impact on our children, and we in this parliament have a duty to listen and to respond to their concerns, to do everything possible to ensure that they are not the generation who inherit a depleted and declining world. finally, i want to touch on our obligation to protect children in the digital age. there are some very clear areas where the internet and digital world put children at particular risk; issues of sexual exploitation being an obvious example. protecting our children should include ensuring they have accurate and reliable information on many topics.
mr. chairman, commissioner, you've outlined the situation here, how she's basically fine, but she's not fine. here, jobs are being closed, people are being laid off, businesses are being closed in a strategic sector, which is the steel industry. steel is the foundation for engineering, automotive and other industries. and there is simply overproduction in the world, a fact that is primarily due to the fact that some non-european countries have unfair practices and are systematically violating climate goals, climate standards, but also labor laws, because there are no unions. how do you want to compete with these countries in the steel industry other than by facing it head-on? that means that with your tariffs, you're going to force these countries to meet the standards that our steel mills meet. and our steel mills didn't have to close because these countries are producing excess production and it has one effect. we will always support steel. we just import it, our employees suffer, and we lose our strategic advantage.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the members for their remarks. firstly, i have not said that everything is fine. secondly, i don’t need to defend this commission with words because in my quite long opening speech at the beginning, i said, very concretely, what this commission has done and what we are doing, very swiftly and quite effectively, in the steel sector in europe. we reacted swiftly. we did our utmost in the three major areas: trade policy, industrial policy and employment policy. all of them are, or were, a part of our steel action plan and we are implementing them quite swiftly. in trade policy, we have tightened our instruments and we are using them very actively, as much as we can, to protect our industry, to protect it from unfair imports; i showed you the numbers. on industrial policy, we are working with our international partners to reduce global steel over-capacity; we are also putting a lot of money with the new instruments, under the new mff, but also in the current one, to innovate and for our steel sector to become more sustainable. as many of you mentioned workers and our employment policy: here we have primarily the european social fund (esf), the globalisation funds available to re-train and to re-skill our workforce; to accompany the many structural changes that are ongoing in the steel industry. of course the work is not done. i cannot comment on the new commission. but definitely, in the last years, starting from 2014, we took a number of very active working measures to protect our steel market and especially our workers. let me also mention that the new commission has announced the carbon border adjustment tax. this is a really important instrument for which the previous parliament was calling, and i think it will be implemented soon.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – it is in a way tragic that a debate on the protection of european workers remains necessary today. the huge problems that continue to arise result from reliance over the years on uncoordinated national initiatives, misguided free market policies clumsily implemented and a lack of foresight. meanwhile, producers elsewhere tooled up within protected markets to achieve output levels that enabled exports at cutthroat prices. loss of competitivity, little cutting edge innovation, overcapacity, and less than adaptive labour systems resulted in europe. the recognition that the steel industry is a strategic sector existed in word, not in deed. the future of steel should not have been left to the markets’ mercy. it needed to be tightly regulated and planned, on a national and european basis. planning needed backing funds to enable subsidies and flexible work arrangements, protection flexibly managed, plus consolidation over a bottom line to ensure that basic output in significant volumes would remain located in europe. current computing power allows for such centralised planning to be carried out in conformity with the rest of the european economy still acting according to market forces while responding autonomously to them. europe cannot tolerate the option of having to procure all its steel requirements from the outside.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on turkey's drilling activities in eu waters in the eastern mediterranean (2019/2875 ((rsp)). i would like to say again that in the debate both the traditional registration and the new system which allows members to register electronically can be used to apply for spontaneous votes and blue cards. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you to the plenary at all times. if you wish to request a spontaneous exchange of views, you can do so from now on. so you do not have to wait until the end of the debate. i would like to add, however, for the benefit of the new members, that blue cards are not allowed in commissioner's statements.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, it is a timely debate in this parliament. it gives me a good opportunity to debrief you on the work we have done, not only on the commission’s side but also on the council’s side. actually, last monday we adopted in the foreign affairs council a framework for restrictive measures in response to turkey’s drilling in the eastern mediterranean. this decision makes it now possible to sanction individuals and entities that are responsible for unauthorised drilling activities in cyprus’ territorial sea, exclusive economic zone or continental shelf. you will remember how we got there. in early may, turkey sent a first drill ship inside cyprus’ exclusive economic zone and then another one in june. from the very beginning there was a common united european union position on the matter. we acted first and foremost in full solidarity with cyprus, including at the highest level, at the level of the european council with the european union heads of state and government. then, in july the council decided on a first response suspending our high-level dialogues with turkey, the negotiations on the comprehensive air transport agreement and endorsing the commission’s proposal to reduce the pre-accession assistance to turkey for 2020. in july the council also asked the commission and the external action service to work on further options for targeted measures in case turkey continued its illegal drilling activities. we’ve been constantly in contact with our turkish counterparts at all levels, passing messages to the turkish side on the need to de-escalate. and yet turkey decided to continue its activities and even to move further, to move to block 7, which is an area where cyprus has given licenses to a consortium of eu companies. and this is how we arrived to this week’s framework for restrictive measures. as always, we’re taking a gradual approach, a scalable approach, meaning that sanctions can be scaled up or down, depending on developments on the ground, in this case let me say rather developments at sea. and, as always, these are targeted measures so they will only target individuals or entities that are responsible for, or involved in, unauthorised drillings. our goal remains to defuse tension and to make clear that cyprus’ sovereignty and sovereign rights should be respected in accordance with international law. at the same time, it is urgent to resume substantive settlement talks aimed at the reunification of the island and aimed at the united cyprus inside the european union, based on a bi-communal bi-zonal federation. the european union fully supports the work done by the two cypriot leaders and the united nations in this respect. we look forward to the meeting that the un secretary-general has convened in berlin on 25 november as a crucial opportunity to agree on the next steps towards a solution for the cypriot issue. the european union has always been accompanying these efforts, these steps, different stages, and will continue to do so with all the energy and the resources it can mobilise. so hoping and working, rather accompanying the un work for a settlement, making clear that cyprus’ sovereignty and sovereign rights have to be respected and that the european union will always react in a united manner to defend them, and always inviting our turkish counterparts to de-escalate and work in a different kind of environment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, a short while ago, here in the european parliament, in the heart of europe and democracy, we celebrated, as it should and as it deserves, the fall of the berlin wall and the liberation of europe from tyrannical regimes. but at the same time, mr president, on european soil, for the last 45 years, another wall, another wall of shame, is being systematically built by an arbitrary provocative occupying power such as turkey, against which the european union and all of humanity must resist and begin to tear it down. it is truly a challenge and a disgrace for humanity and for the whole of europe, in 2019, for turkey to invade syria unhindered, for turkey to invade the exclusive economic zone of cyprus unhindered and violate sovereign rights, for turkey to continue to occupy european territory, for turkey to continue to provoke, blackmail and arbitrarily violate human rights enshrined in international and european law. i believe that the measures taken by the european union are right; we are proud to be part of this great european family. i firmly believe that the european union has the power and that it is time to step up the measures against turkey and to force it to apply the rules of law and the principles of the european union. turkey doesn't understand words. even if in 1939 humanity did not have time to stop hitler from bloodshed, i believe that humanity today can stop turkey so that history does not repeat itself to the detriment of the european union and to the detriment of humanity.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, the actions of repeated drilling in cyprus' territorial waters do not only raise the question of solidarity with the member state and its territorial integrity, which has not yet been realised. this is primarily a matter of respect for international law, which is clearly violated by these actions of turkey. i therefore support the economic sanctions framework adopted by the council this week. this will allow for the sanctioning of individuals or companies responsible for or involved in unauthorised hydrocarbon drilling activities in the eastern mediterranean. sanctions are directed at anyone who directly implements this illegal decision, even the navy personnel hired to oversee the entire operation. also to anyone found to be aiding the process in any way. these illegal acts have a negative impact on the whole range of relations between the european union and turkey. beyond the economic dimension, it is clear that our political relations with turkey are becoming increasingly complex. as we're getting reports of president erdogan meeting with president trump, russian patrols are patrolling the nato border, and turkey is announcing the purchase of the s-400 missile system from russia. it is clear that traditional alliances are under increasing pressure and that we need to think about redefining the role of the european union on the global stage. this example is just one reminder of how inevitable that is.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, turkey’s illegal drilling operations off cyprus have continued despite the european union’s repeated calls to stop them. and, certainly, condemnation is right, as we have heard already from many speakers. but, dear colleagues, let us not also look like hypocrites when we challenge others even while continuing to extract or import gas and oil for ourselves – sometimes even authorising new mines. and this will continue so long as we go on listening to fossil fuel apologists. here in this parliament, exxon mobil are still licenced to lobby despite their proven climate change denial record. if we were serious about greening europe, we’d surely have rid ourselves of that. extraction of fossil fuels has to stop. celebrating growth has to stop. facilitating emissions-heavy travel has to stop. it’s up to us to do it, and to do it right here, not just in turkey.
madam president, we welcome the council’s decision to adopt sanctions in response to turkey’s continued and illegal drilling in cypriot territorial waters. once again this parliament must condemn turkish actions. this latest infringement shows that the turkish government is not respecting either the rule of law or the territory of other states. the eu will and must show solidarity with its member state cyprus, and following october’s turkish military operations in northeast syria, we called for action to be taken – strong action. how many more violations of international law must there be before we act? the european parliament will show that our citizens will not condone either an illegal invasion or this illegal drilling. let us send a clear message to ankara and formally end turkey’s status as an eu candidate country.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, this extended ebola outbreak is a disaster, not just because more than 2 000 people have lost their lives, but also because that number is still second only to that huge 2014—2016 outbreak in west africa, and it is still rising. that shows that, as an interconnected world, we have so far failed to learn and act on important lessons from that earlier epidemic. now, it is fantastic that europe more quickly mobilised more effective humanitarian effort in response – worth eur 47 million – since the outbreak started last year and spent on healthcare, on infection control, on contact tracing, on support for survivors and on community engagement. it’s great that the eu is working with private companies to tackle the problem that it’s more profitable to sell headache cures to rich people than to treat rare diseases that mainly kill the poor. it’s also great that scientific and medical partnerships like horizon 2020 and the innovative medicines initiative mean that 236 000 people have been vaccinated with one ebola vaccine – and we’ve now heard a second is on the way – and it breaks my heart that brexit could jeopardise british participation in programmes like this. but the scale of this outbreak – like the last – is not down to inadequate humanitarian response. it is because of systemic failures: poor health education that means many local people dismiss outbreaks as hoaxes and even attack or sometimes kill healthcare workers; poor health infrastructure, funded by inadequate domestic resources, with millions often lost to tax avoidance or simply destroyed by conflict; a global health workforce crisis that is worst in poor countries, fragile states and conflict zones and in which rich countries poach health workers from poor countries. i’m pleased, as the commissioner commented, that the eu’s directorate-general for international cooperation and development (dg devco) is now investing in tackling some of these issues, but europe needs to lead the world to do much more. european humanitarian aid is right and necessary, but if we are not to respond to yet more death in a few years’ time, we must also invest in public health, in health infrastructure, in local workforces, in domestic resources and in peace.
madam president, will the european children of tomorrow hear any birds singing in trees or bees humming in the flowers? according to more than 2 500 scientists in a recent letter to ursula von der leyen, intensive farming has caused a catastrophic decline in farmland birds and insects across europe since 1980. the reformed common agricultural policy must change this. we must reverse the incentives, promote small-scale traditional farming and restore biodiversity. yet it’s not just farming. where i live, pointless roads are being subsidised from eu funds. they slice viciously through precious woodland, river valleys and wildlife sites hitherto immune from the plough and the spray. we must re-order our values; we must count the true costs of privileging private cars over nature’s green spaces. eu money needs to be green, not grey, and tomorrow is too late.
madam president, completing the banking union has thus become a kind of mantra repeated by the right and by the social democrats, above all to divert attention from the real meaning and consequences of this project. after expropriating the states of their monetary, exchange rate and budgetary sovereignty, they want to take away from them the control and supervision of their banking system, which is handed over to a half-dozen large transnational financial groups. with the proposal now put forward by germany for the third pillar we understand the deception better. the exchange of loans to national guarantee funds, which are certainly paid for cheaply, is subject to conditions which push banks in the weaker countries into potentially devastating competitive situations, further facilitating the monopolistic concentration of the sector in european mega banks. on the way, they want to leave even more defenseless and unprotected countries like portugal in the next tight corner of a new euro crisis. only public control of banking, and public management and ownership of banking, can break with this path and these interests and put banking at the service of the common good and a sovereign development project.
madam president, european civilisation was built on water: our seas and rivers were the lifeblood of trade, food, community and culture. yet today, many living in coastal communities have been left behind to struggle with poverty, crime, unemployment and health inequalities. i live in east anglia, by the north sea, close to clacton, walton, jaywick, lowestoft and yarmouth. the benefits of globalisation have not washed up on our shores. these are the places that the eu has left behind. the life chances of young and old are reduced with poor education and overstretched health services. broadband and commercial infrastructure is often non-existent. fishing communities have been left behind and devastated. coastal communities are left to pick up the pieces of the eu’s disastrous migrancy policy. it’s no surprising that our coastal communities have the largest brexit vote in the uk. next year, we are celebrating the 400th anniversary of the mayflower, the ship built in the port of harwich, seven miles from my home. it carried 102 pilgrims away from european religious repression to the new world and laid the foundations of modern—day america. next year, 66 million uk citizens will be departing, this time to escape eu political repression. it’s time the eu woke up to the special needs of its coastal communities, otherwise they will be joining the uk on our journey to the free world.
madam president, the situation in kashmir is a growing threat to regional peace in south asia. since the indian government’s revocation of the special status of jammu and kashmir on 5 august, much of the state has been effectively cut off from the outside world. the indian government contends that this is solely an internal matter. yet the reality is, since 1947, jammu and kashmir has been a disputed territory, and reports of systematic abuse of human rights continue. in european union trade agreements, we increasingly insist that respect for human rights must be included. we must apply those same standards to any agreement with the republic of india and we must urgently demand that international observers be allowed freely into kashmir. in this house, we should aspire to be the friends of india, and also to be the friends of pakistan, and we must also recognise that the best route to lasting peace would be to enable kashmiris to determine their own future.
that concludes the item.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, allow me to start by saying that although serious, the migratory situation in the western balkans has been improving over the last two years, especially in 2019. the number of arrivals in all european migratory routes for the first three quarters of 2019 was 19% lower than last year, which is a positive signal. the numbers show that the eu is doing its utmost to improve the general situation and alleviate the migratory and humanitarian pressure that countries in the western balkans are facing. however, bosnia and herzegovina has become a major route into the eu. as all of us are aware, the crisis that bosnia and herzegovina is currently undergoing is most severe in the north-west of the country, in the una-sana canton with bihać as its centre. the eu continues to monitor the situation on the ground and will do everything it can to improve the overall humanitarian situation. it is crucial that the national and local authorities do their part of the work – reach an agreement and provide refugees and migrants with proper accommodation. we are committed to helping bosnia and herzegovina deal with this situation and delivering assistance to the most vulnerable. as the most pressing matter, the bosnia and herzegovina authorities must relocate, without delay, migrants and refugees from the unsuitable site of vucjak. at meetings with representatives of the city and cantonal authorities the eu continues to urge the immediate closure of this temporary camp. we are also concerned that existing reception capacities in bosnia and herzegovina remain largely insufficient. the country’s official refugee camps are full. unfortunately, in spite of the eu’s readiness to provide the necessary financial support, the government has not allocated new sites nor proposed suitable locations for the needed additional reception facilities. there is a strong need to ensure effective functioning of the existing temporary reception centres and we take note of the authorities’ commitment in this respect. the council defends the dignity and safety of all persons, especially the most vulnerable ones. these persons need to be protected. the presidency would also like to express its appreciation for the work of all the humanitarian partners whose activities must be facilitated and supported. the eu expresses its readiness to continue providing additional support to the affected communities on the ground while searching at the same time for a more permanent solution. the overarching goal of our efforts is to support bosnia and herzegovina in managing mixed migration flows in light of the increasing number of asylum seekers, refugees and migrants arriving in the country in the past two years. when it comes to the current crisis in bosnia and herzegovina, we must work hard to ensure that the country’s authorities, at all levels of government, work together and manage the migration situation in an effective manner. asylum seekers, refugees and migrants now living in deplorable and difficult conditions must be allocated adequate premises in line with eu requirements. there is no time to wait. a swift coordination and reaction is what is expected from all of us. we need to consolidate our efforts to resolve the most pressing problems. a permanent solution needs to strengthen bosnia and herzegovina’s capacity to identify and register third country nationals crossing the border. the final goal should also include the fight against trafficking in human beings, migrant smuggling and other types of cross-border crime, which is ever present in mixed migration flows.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by welcoming today’s debate about the situation of refugees and migrants in bosnia and herzegovina. it could not have come at a more timely moment. as you know, the commission is fully informed and closely following developments, including the extremely poor conditions at the vučjak site and in bihać, which nobody should have to endure. what happens in the region of the western balkans affects all of us, and affects the rest of europe too. this is why the european union has always stood by the side of our western balkans partners as well as by the side of the refugees and the migrants in those countries. the debate is even more timely, because the annual eu-western balkans home affairs ministerial forum takes place next week, which will give me an opportunity to discuss the issue with my counterparts. allow me first to give you the general picture, the wider picture. since 2018 around 50 000 people have crossed through bosnia and herzegovina on their way towards western europe. around 8 000 people remain, mostly in the north-west corner, the una-sana canton, where the local authorities are bearing the brunt of migration management. the commission responded immediately to the needs of bosnia and herzegovina. since the year 2018, we have mobilised over eur 36 million to address the immediate needs of refugees and migrants and to strengthen the migration management capacities of bosnia and herzegovina. this includes the eur 2 million humanitarian assistance that we made available last month. due to the very limited capacity of the official facilities, five temporary reception centres were set up with eu funds in 2018, providing accommodation for up to 4 000 people, 30% of which are families with children and 10% are unaccompanied minors. this prevented a humanitarian crisis last winter. now, since accommodation capacities remain insufficient, we have repeatedly urged bosnia and herzegovina to identify suitable additional sites for temporary reception centres. last august, we allocated eur 10 million to support the refurbishment and management of new centres. we have also mobilised a senior expert on migration management to assist the authorities in their internal coordination. yet despite the significant resources allocated, and the intense political dialogue, we are still waiting for bosnia and herzegovina, for their authorities, to agree on the location of new reception centres and to increase the capacities of existing centres. moreover, the forced disembarkation from trains and buses, and the limiting of migrants’ access to services have contributed to the deterioration in the humanitarian situation. we are therefore discussing with key partners how to help the authorities to best address the most urgent needs of migrants and refugees, especially the most vulnerable groups. at the same time, we have raised with the authorities the risk of a humanitarian crisis in the coming winter. and now let me come back to the situation in bihać. we cannot accept the continued transfers of migrants and refugees to the entirely unsuitable location of vučjak, where the health and lives of people are being put at serious risk by the lack of access to water, sanitation, shelter and protection. similar concerns have been expressed by the united nations agencies. the site is a former landfill close to minefields. it does not fulfil the minimal requirements for decent reception conditions, therefore no eu financial support can or will be provided for it. i want to be very clear on that. we have asked the local authorities to dismantle the site without further delay and to move the persons currently accommodated there to adequate facilities. we take note, as a first positive step, of the decision taken this week by the government of the federation entity to approve the use of two military barracks as temporary reception centres in a place called blažuj near sarajevo, and ljubace near tuzla. we now expect such a decision to be implemented swiftly, in order to relieve the pressure on the una-sana canton, and the transfer of the persons currently in vučjak. let me also add, let me also say, that we remain concerned about alleged cases of violent pushback and mistreatment of migrants at the croatian border with bosnia and herzegovina. we take such reports from civil society and international organisations very seriously. any form of violence against refugees and migrants is unacceptable. we are in close contact with the croatian authorities. we have committed to investigate the allegations of mistreatment of migrants and refugees at its external borders and to keeping the commission informed. in this context, at the request of the commission, a monitoring mechanism has been established aimed at ensuring that the border control activities by croatian border guard officers remain fully compliant with eu law, international obligations and with the respect for fundamental rights and the rights resulting from the eu asylum rules. i recently visited zagreb again in the context of our evaluation of croatia’s readiness to join schengen. their commitment was again reiterated on this occasion. despite all the support that we have provided, the heavy pressure and the situation in bosnia and herzegovina remains deeply concerning, especially in light of the upcoming winter. we all want to avoid a worsening of the situation and a new humanitarian crisis. we are doing all we can to help bosnia and herzegovina to address this situation. the dignity and safety of all affected persons needs to be ensured and protected. we will continue engaging with the country’s authorities as well as with civil society and international organisations on the ground on this very pressing issue. i know that this house shares the same concerns and i’m looking forward to hearing your views today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. meanwhile, more people are fleeing to bosnia and herzegovina in order to reach the eu. some 7 500 people are stranded in the region around bihać. about 1,000 are forced to vegetate on the vučjak landfill. when they try to cross the border into croatia to apply for asylum, they are mistreated and violently turned away by the croatian police. this is a lack of solidarity and empathy with refugees, which is a reflection of a profound humanitarian crisis in the european union. the eu is destroying its own foundation of values. that is why i demand: as announced, the camp in vučjak must be dismantled immediately and the people must be accommodated according to international standards. croatia must finally stop these violations of eu and international law in the form of pushbacks. the eu must therefore finally commit croatia to ending the violence of the police there. the refugees must be allowed to apply for asylum. croatia can only become a member of the schengen area if these illegal pushbacks are stopped. we need a european solution and we need to agree on a distribution mechanism for refugees as a whole. refugees and migrants are not a threat. so-called border security has no priority over human rights. it is our damned duty to give refugees a life of dignity!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, let us not lose the battle by shooting red bullets at the croatian police, who are anxious to stop the flow of migrants to the european union. it is clear that those who, like croatia or the serb republic of bosnia, have had the courage to opt for a firm policy have succeeded in bringing the tide of migration to a halt. the fact that today the mayor of bihać is refusing to accept an uninterrupted flow of pseudo-refugees, 85% of whom are in fact economic migrants, as the coordinator of the international organization for migration in sarajevo acknowledged in 2018, demonstrates, if it were still necessary, how much capacity is being exceeded throughout europe. we can protest against his decision to stop providing material aid to the newcomers, but it is clear that bosnia and herzegovina has nothing to share with them but its own misfortune. has the imf not recently downgraded the growth forecast for the country, which remains one of the poorest in europe? moreover, the migration crisis is only the tip of the iceberg, the problem of this failed state, this failed concept, in the well-chosen words of milorad dodik.
mr president, bosnia and herzegovina is facing a major migratory pressure that is increasingly spilling over into croatia. the situation in the border areas is becoming untenable, and we are facing a major humanitarian crisis. in croatia, crime is on the rise along the migration route, and local residents fear for their safety and property. bosnia and herzegovina, with its political and financial constraints, does not have the capacity to do business on its own territory, and the countries through which migrants arrive in bosnia and herzegovina are not very helpful because they are weak in stopping illegal migrants. southeast europe is a 'melting pot' and the only real solution is to stop the mass influx of illegal migrants. europe must respond as a whole. turning central and western europe into a fortress, while at the same time plunging the continent's southeast into chaos, could prove disastrous in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are right to talk about rescue at sea, but we must also talk about rescue on land, about refugees fighting for their lives on the eu's external borders, on the eu's land borders. bosnia is a pawn in this eu policy. it's a domino effect that has occurred there because member states have closed their borders to refugees. this domino effect has resulted in thousands of refugees being stranded in europe's fourth-poorest country. the eu is doing nothing, but nothing at all, about the hundreds of push-backs, the dogs being chased after refugees, the unaccompanied children being handed over to human traffickers, the brutal police violence and torture at these borders. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is not only a political force, but also a political force. we therefore demand an immediate end to all pushbacks. family reunification, the protection of unaccompanied children, as required by international conventions - this must be! in view of the approaching winter, we call on the commission and the member states to allow bosnian refugees to enter the eu for humanitarian reasons, so that asylum applications can be processed during this period. the commission and the council must finally pave the way for a fair and humane eu asylum system! the ball is not in bihać, the ball is in the eu.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, without urgent and immediate action, thousands of people in bosnia could die this winter. the bosnian authorities must immediately close the camp at vucjak and provide safe, clean and habitable accommodation for those who are currently languishing there. international aid ngos – from médicine sans frontières, to red cross and red crescent – have been clear from the outset about the unsuitable nature of this camp without clean water and sanitation, without proper medical care, and located in areas still landmined from the conflict. those warnings must be heeded urgently. but this is not just a bosnian problem; it is a european union problem, and it can only be resolved by joint action and cooperation across the union. earlier this year, the commission declared europe’s migrant crisis over, but that is not the experience of people in vucjak. they are living out their own personal migrant crises every day. i may be from a group of islands in the far northwest reaches of the eu, at the opposite end of europe, but as much as some at home may wish it were, this cannot be a case of ‘out of sight, out of mind’. the uk and ireland, along with every other eu nation, have a role in ending the cruel and callous treatment of migrants. we are living through the consequences of our own pandering to the far right on issues of immigration, asylum and international development aid. we saw that pandering in our own parliament here a few weeks ago, when people disgracefully voted down a motion on search and rescue in the mediterranean. whether it’s in a lorry in england, a capsized boat in the mediterranean, or a former landfill in rural bosnia, how many more people will die before we get our act together? every eu member state must facilitate a safe pathway for migrants and humane treatment for them while their applications to remain are considered. the proof is overwhelming and horrifying. closing our borders does not work. it costs lives. now is the time to ensure that compassion is at the heart of our migration policy and to hold those who fall short to account.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few moments ago we heard the word of hatred and inhumanity. this speech was condemned in the last parliamentary elections by the greek people and now the golden dawn party and the neo-nazis in greece are in the tartars of our political history. but let us see what happens with the eu-turkey declaration: this year alone, more than 60 000 refugees and migrants have arrived in greece via turkey. it is 60% of all arrivals in europe. of these, 30,000 have arrived in the last three months. in addition, since 2016, only 1,950 have returned to turkey. the previous government certainly did not do enough to use european funding and to improve living conditions in the centres of the aegean islands. but without an immediate new european relocation programme, without sanctions being imposed on those who refuse to participate, and without a review of the dublin regulation in the future, if we do not proceed in line with the european parliament's proposal, the failure will escalate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the conditions in the hotspots on the greek islands continue to deteriorate. last month, protests at the moria refugee camp left at least one person dead. this was the third fatal incident in the camp in the past three months. moria was designed to host 3 000, but more than 14 000 people are currently living there. it’s dangerous, overcrowded, depressing: a labyrinth that is slowly suffocating its inhabitants; a place where traumatised people are stripped of all dignity. the hope that many had when they crossed the mediterranean has been replaced with feelings of desolation. i’m particularly concerned about reports of teenagers who’ve attempted to commit suicide or are self-harming. these are young people who are missing out on school, whose rights are not being respected. in light of the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, can we hold up our heads and say we are champions for future generations, when child refugees and migrants are living without dignity and hope? we need a change of heart at eu level in the council.
madam president, the situation in moria and samos is a disgrace to europe. the council is the main culprit in this situation, mrs tuppurainen. it is the governments which have left my country, greece, italy and spain, with a lack of solidarity. you decided in the council to relocate 160 000 people from greece and italy, you only implemented 20% of it and then abandoned it. the commission has presented and improved parliament with a reform of asylum policies, with seven dossiers, and you have been holding it up for years because you do not want to take on your responsibilities. and you hear neo-nazis and fascists screaming in here that unaccompanied minors are invaders. if you want to avoid embarrassment, you must finally take responsibility.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you indeed for this very, very important debate. as i said, we will not stop supporting greece in addressing these challenges. we are committed to continuing working hand in hand with the greek authorities and together with our agencies on the ground to mobilise all support needed. we know about the situation and most of you were very vocal of that. but i was also very clear during my introductory remarks.
member of the commission. – i repeat what i said before, that we need a common and sustainable solution. i would like also to thank you for your support in this regard. this – but also the previous parliament – has worked very hard. i’m sure that with your continued help, the new common european asylum system can become a reality soon. today is one of the last occasions for me to speak to you directly and openly in the context of a plenary meeting before my term finishes. let me, therefore, first of all thank you wholeheartedly for the personal and collective exchanges that we have had, as well as the excellent cooperation over the past five years. it has been an honour and a privilege working together with you in order to work for our citizens and respond to unprecedented challenges for our common house, europe, to deliver a europe that is more resilient, more secure, but also more humane and to uphold the values and principles upon which the european union is built. this has been a constant battle, and it will be a continuing challenge for the years to come because, as i said before, migration came to stay for many, many years and europe has to be better prepared. this is what we have been doing together during the last five years – how to address certain fears and concerns of our citizens without becoming isolated, intolerant or exclusionist. earlier this week we all commemorated 30 years since the fall of the berlin wall, a division that was larger than europe and ran through its very heart. the fall of the berlin wall shows the power of our citizens and the power of our stamina, of not giving up, of believing – both individually but, more importantly, as a community. no single person could have demolished that wall, but a collective spirit did. this spirit should guide us in an unpredictable future. the european union, our charter of fundamental rights, which is also celebrating its 10 years by the way, our schengen area of free movement; all of this is about keeping that collective spirit alive.
member of the commission. – thank you. well the past five years have shown that whatever comes our way – migration, climate change, terrorism – can only succeed if we work together in unity and trust. dear colleagues, migration and security challenges are testing our vision, our resilience, our commitment to our european principles. and this house is a fundament in that endeavour. this is what i experienced during the last five years. i am proud to have shared this supreme duty with all the democratic political forces in this house. i came here five years ago as a pro—european greek politician, and i’m going back as an even more convinced and committed active politician of europe. but above everything as a convinced european citizen. thank you very much. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, let me thank you for this valuable and timely discussion. winter is indeed coming. there’s no doubt about the need to immediately address the many shortcomings we observe in the hotspots in an efficient way. as i have mentioned, i have no doubt that the new greek government is intent on improving conditions and amending the loopholes of the system that resulted in people waiting for too long. (appeal for silence from the chair) dear meps, there are real people – also minors – waiting, living in inadequate facilities. we are discussing that now. and yesterday, dear meps, we had in this very plenary a vivid discussion on the rights of children, and many of you referred to the rights of migrant children. the united nations convention on the rights of the child is the most widely-ratified human rights treaty in our history. all eu member states are party to it. thus, dear meps, it is our common responsibility – ours as eu citizens, ours as eu institutions, but also ours as eu member states – to show solidarity to children in migration. the high number of minors in the greek hotspots remains a matter of deep concern. all minors, no matter how old, no matter what their age: all minors need a vision of a better future, the most positive vision of the future the eu is able to provide. the winter is coming, and we finns certainly know what that means. as mr azmani, for instance, rightly pointed out, without delay there is a need for proper accommodation available to all refugees and migrants, and that should not be too difficult. this is a minimum and a starting-point for further help and concrete assistance, and i can only urge the greek authorities and the commission to speed up all the important work they do so that the people most affected can see an improvement in the difficult situation they are living in. dear meps, unfortunately, so far there hasn’t been sufficient will among the member states to proceed according to the commission proposal, yet there is a clear need for a dublin reform and a more comprehensive approach to manage migration. the finnish presidency is pleased that the future commission is aiming high here. we support that. we are all looking forward to having new legislative proposals by the summer at the latest. we need to take action now. thank you very much, madam president, for this very timely discussion. (applause)
in writing. a few days ago, the greek minister for the protection of citizens, speaking of the situation on the greek islands, used the words 'humanitarian catastrophe' and 'social disaster'. those islands have become the main entry point into europe for migratory flows from the east. despite the eu-turkey deal and the 6 billion paid to contain them, almost 50 000 people have arrived by sea in greece since the beginning of the year. since august, they have increased by 120 percent and have become unmanageable, to the point where any human condition of reception is impossible. the news from moria, from lesbos, as from samos, chios and other islands, leaves no room for interpretation. for too long, rights and humanity have been trampled on in those islands of europe. we are faced with the failure of european immigration and asylum policies: greece, as italy and other frontline countries have been, is left alone to deal with a phenomenon which affects the whole of the european union.
in writing. the safety of the greek citizen is the first and foremost priority. the immigration problem is a european problem and as such it must be tackled by everyone here in brussels. at this time, greece is taking the brunt. a burden we cannot carry alone. our fellow citizens are worried right now. they are worried because they feel that the problem cannot be solved soon. they are concerned about the attitude of the rest of europe. it is not possible to give this response to the just demand of my country. we cannot show solidarity only when there are economic interests. citizens are angry because they believe that the money given over the years to deal with the problem has not gone to the right hands. we must understand this concern and respond to it with action. the greek prime minister and the government are working hard to find solutions. we can and must face this problem together. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is a political union of the peoples of europe.
we now move to the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, for the first time, the council wants to refuse to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. it's a disgrace to the council! the rules are the same and there are similar cases where the council voted in favour of mobilising the fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund is for people who have lost their jobs. in this case, we are talking about more than 1 000 belgian citizens, of whom 81% are over 55 years old, who have lost their jobs. the fund is also being mobilised for more than 300 young people who are neither in training nor in the education system. it's a shame! the council wants to apply the rules governing this fund for the period 2021-2027, but it is the current rules that the council must apply. there is a total cacophony in the council, a total division of the member states between those who vote in favour, those who vote against and those who abstain. i would urge you all to show your unity, as usual, with regard to this fund and to vote in favour of its mobilisation in the final vote. at least citizens can trust the parliament, which respects the rule of law, citizens' rights and rules.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, the content of education is a matter for the member states. and i have confidence in the democratic system and the common sense of the polish people that they will not allow the criminalization of teachers who will sensibly and age-appropriately educate students on such a sensitive topic as sex education. but they have to decide for themselves, the polish parliament has to decide. i understand my polish colleagues from the civic platform and others who are concerned about developments in poland. we know that the polish government is trying to interfere with the freedom and independence of the media and the judiciary. let's not hide it. but i still trust the polish parliament that it will not allow the good work of polish teachers for the benefit of the pupils to be criminalized.
mr president, before i became an mep i lobbied governments across the united kingdom to implement comprehensive age-appropriate lgbt-inclusive relationship and sex education. age-appropriate relationship and sex education is essential for the creation of a positive and respectful approach towards relationships, sexuality and sexual relationships, and empowers children and teenagers. it is a crucial and indispensable tool to transform harmful gender norms and fight against gender-based violence, transphobia, homophobia, gender stereotypes, sexism and, crucially, safeguarding. with this vote we have called on the polish parliament to reject this bill and to stamp out the lies and disinformation surrounding the teaching of inclusive relationship and sex education. all children deserve high-quality lgbt-inclusive education so that they can grow up in a tolerant society where no one is afraid to be themselves.
mr president, i’m very pleased to support this cross-party motion for a resolution condemning the criminalisation of sexual education in poland. in the 21st century we need education fit for the modern world, and that includes learning about sexual education. it also includes learning about healthy relationships and what that means. this is part of fulfilling our obligations under the united nations convention on the rights of the child. we celebrated its 30th anniversary just yesterday, and we are celebrating it again, i’m sure, next week as well. that convention clearly states that children are rights holders, and that includes being able to learn how to respect each other, how to respect our own bodies and their bodies, and equality and dignity. that is what this world is about; that is what the eu stands for, and that’s what the united nations stands for. that’s what the s&d group stands for.
mr president, coming from scotland, which has already declared a climate emergency, i support calls for this parliament to declare a climate and environmental emergency in europe. but in doing so, it is absolutely essential that we commit to taking bolder and urgent climate action in response to the deteriorating situation. we must send a strong message to our citizens and to the rest of the world that europe will lead and will implement effective policies and actions to meet the 1.5°c target. i would urge the commission to ensure that its plans for a new european climate law and a green deal recognise the urgency and scale of the climate emergency that we face, and have at their heart the well—being of people and planet, because we must also ensure that the transition to net zero is just and fair and leaves no one behind. we need all countries across the eu and beyond to step up to the plate and to come to glasgow next year with serious climate commitments. (the speaker declined to answer a blue-card question from mr rowland)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a responsibility to our globe. europe is in full compliance with the paris targets with regard to emissions trading, energy saving and renewable energy development, and this is already on the basis of 40% co2. yes, we can and we must do more. we want to be a global example. but we must take people and businesses with us. but what some of the left and the greens have announced here today is unfortunately not a takeaway, it is a scarecrow with catastrophic scenarios, a threat with the most extreme forecasts for sea level rise. you're talking about an emergency. a famine justifies an emergency, a civil war, a devastating earthquake. the declaration of a state of emergency always means the repeal of regular legislation. the people who declare the state of emergency do not want to argue, they want to frighten and intimidate, and they do not care about jobs and social distortions, and in the end they do not care about democracy and the rule of law. that's why i'm in favor of taking climate goals more seriously. the declaration of an emergency does not justify the situation. if you declare an emergency, we declare an industrial emergency.
the european union is committed to working together to tackle this important issue, and we will be doing so in paris, in katowice and in marrakech at the cop meetings. first, great credit is due to the juncker commission and especially commissioner arias cañete on giving leadership in paris and bringing the clean energy package through the last parliament. now we have to implement it. one point that i think needs to be made very strongly is that it is fine to talk about ambition in the future, but what we need now - especially from the member states - is action. what are they going to do this year, next year, and the year after? not 2030, not 2040, not 2050. secondly, the council rightly pointed out that no one should be left behind. i would add to that "through no fault of their own". people who work in peat factories and power stations in my constituency, or in coal in poland, need to be helped, and a just transition fund is vital to be part of this. finally, i just want to say to commissioner timmermans that he'll have to ensure that ambition is matched with inclusivity, and that global leadership will have to be practical. everybody has a part to play.
mr. president, please! climate change is certainly a very important issue, although it is not yet a disaster, but it can certainly happen if we do not take concrete action. it is right that we should discuss this, but it is even more important that we should take concrete action. and i certainly count on and expect the new european commission to actually propose concrete changes. i also support increasing the funds for these purposes, because only with new technologies, new ways of working and using energy will we be able to reduce emissions, because i do not believe that we are prepared to change our way of life so much that this could also significantly contribute to reducing energy consumption. i ask the commission, however, to what extent these climate objectives are taken into account when we conclude trade agreements with countries outside the european union?
mr president, we need measures that challenge an unsustainable system at its core and not measures that seek to ensure the survival of this system in a fantastically greener version. the public control of the energy sector must be opposed to private energy monopolies if we want it to operate in a sustainable way, combining social and environmental concerns. the individual car must be countered by modern, efficient, high-quality and progressively free public transport systems. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the unsustainable patterns of production and consumption must be countered by the fight against consumerism and the waste associated with it. the encouragement of local production and consumption, short supply chains, a view of international trade based more on complementarity than on competition - this is what we need if we are to move beyond the inconsequential scramble of concerns from summit to summit. capitalism is not and will not be green.
mr president, there’s no climate emergency in this place – just a lot of hot air. if you were serious, you would show real leadership by stopping the senseless pollution caused by transporting this parliament between brussels and strasbourg 12 times a year. by 2050, the environmental impact of this will be 600 000 tonnes of co2 emissions. nearly every candidate for the eu presidency – including mr timmermans – agreed on the stupidity of two parliaments. only mr macron clings on to the vanity of strasbourg. when will this parliament end such hypocrisy over the environment? speaker after speaker says that the lives of our children, our planet and our existence are at risk, but we’re not prepared to end our own pollution by stopping this stupid twin—parliament structure of strasbourg and brussels. try explaining that to your grandchildren.
mr. president, please! we see climate change every day, the effects of it, when we look at floods, fires, whether it's in venice or in the slovenian island of piran. it's easy to declare a climate emergency, but we have to do a lot more. we need to find new technologies, new opportunities for entrepreneurship, new opportunities for science, and we need to provide the budget for that. we have a duty to explain to the people the measures that follow. what are we going to do about energy? how are we going to provide low-carbon energy? and with renewables, certainly with nuclear power. what are we gonna do about agriculture? what are we going to do in transportation to make people aware and be part of these changes that they will support? equally or more importantly, it is right that this role played by the european union at home be broadcast around the world and that the major economies, the united states, china and india, be persuaded to do the same.
mr president, climate change is the single most important issue today. as a member of the acp—eu joint parliamentary assembly, i’m in regular dialogue with parliamentarians representing vulnerable communities. nearly one—third of all citizens in small island developing states (sids) live just a few metres above sea level. for them, the existential threat of climate change is already here: storm surges, saltwater intrusion and coastal destruction have resulted in failing crops, water shortages and an uncertain future – contributing, in turn, to migration. meanwhile, areas of the uk such as cumbria in 2015 and yorkshire just a few weeks ago, are experiencing unprecedented floods, leaving thousands of people homeless and destroying businesses. governments have spent years ignoring all the scientific warnings. now our young people are taking action, and i applaud them for their efforts. i was proud to sign the green new deal pledge and join millions of people all over the world in the global climate strike. we have one home. we share it, and we must protect it.
mr president, i’ve had about nine or ten blue—card attempts rejected, so i get slightly more than one minute, i hope. what we’re seeing here, in this climate change debate, is all rationality disappearing and climate alarmism basically becoming a belief system: it’s moving out of the scientific realm into a more humanistic or religious realm. the key points of climate change are the following. firstly, you’re undergoing an enormous deindustrialisation plan, of which the uk alone has estimated the cost as gbp 1 trillion. to undergo a similar—scale operation for europe is going to cost trillions and trillions of euros. secondly, the actual product itself that you’re replacing the hydrocarbons with – either solar or wind – is intermittent and requires huge taxpayer subsidies. in the uk alone, again, it’s over gbp 11 billion a year. the third point is that you’re losing tax revenue from hydrocarbons, which in the uk is gbp 40 billion a year, and replacing it with a subsidy. so i ask all the people in here: how on earth are you going to fund all the precious public services when you are subsidising renewables?
mr president, i am disappointed. eight years after the adoption of this revolutionary convention, we are still discussing how to implement it, at least on a minimum level. instead of moving forward, instead of exchanging and implementing best practices, we seem to agree that even those member states which have ratified the convention, or at least some of them, do not take it seriously. did we all criminalise mental violence? no. did we all give victims of domestic violence the opportunity to live a normal life? no. in some countries, including, unfortunately, my home country, estonia, we still try to reconcile victims and tyrants. i have to underline that, according to the police, women only seek help after being beaten 36 times. what reconciliation can we speak about? it obviously doesn’t work. so my message is: of course it is extremely important to put pressure on those member states which have still not ratified the convention, but we also have to be critical of those that already have, because some of them did it only on paper.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my friends, we're going to talk a lot more about gender, about gender, about power, about feminism. because this is what it's all about. it's about the fact that we can actually change the gender power structure. this unbridled patriarchal machismo that generates violence against women, against girls and also against lgbtq people. we're going to talk about it because we're going to create something new, because we're going to end violence against women and girls. this fight is every day, not just today. but what are we demanding today? we demand political action and that everyone come together to do everything possible to stop this violence. we demand that the member states ratify the istanbul convention. we demand that consent legislation be made at national level and we demand money to fight gender-based violence, especially in women's organizations and women's clubs, and you should know that on the other side of the benches. we will not be silenced. we will not be silenced until we put an end to this violation of our human rights.
mr president, sexual violence against women and girls is being sanitised through language and it has to stop. look no further than our courtrooms. the description of killing during sex as being ‘rough sex’ or ‘sex game gone wrong’ is being used as a defence in uk courtrooms and across the world. fifty-six women in the uk have been killed by men who claim it was merely the result of ‘rough sex’. in the last five years, the defence has been used successfully in six out of 14 cases, that’s almost half. this is the message it sends out: if you kill a woman during sex, you can get off with a lighter sentence. as online porn tries to shock for more clicks, scenes are becoming more violent. we need to keep up with the effect this is having. women who have been killed have no voice in the courtroom against the unpalatable defence of a ‘sex game gone wrong’. grace millane, 22 years old, was recently murdered in new zealand and her killer’s version of events has gone unchallenged. my thoughts go out to her family. if we don’t name this crime accurately, we can’t fight against it properly, and not only does this mean no justice for murdered women but no deterrent for those that would murder them.
madam president, i just wanted to salute the activists for democracy who have just won an unprecedented number of seats in the hong kong elections. it was a massive turnout, what an exhilarating result! after tens of thousands have taken to the streets to fight for their freedoms against violent clampdowns it’s so inspiring to see that support now demonstrated at the ballot box. but i note that many in power and authority in hong kong and china try and explain these results by saying the young activists are being misinformed by fake news, misled by extremists. does it sound familiar? i hope colleagues here at parliament won’t make the mistake you made with the uk when we voted brexit by telling the hong kong freedom fighters that they voted the wrong way, go back and vote again. we democrats should stick together in solidarity and recognise that whether it’s in hong kong or the uk, democracy and freedom are worth fighting for and should be celebrated and congratulated, not condemned.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the heads of state and government are going to meet in brussels right after the madrid climate summit. i hope they take some of the madrid spirit along with them, because i’m sure they will have heard a lot of urgency from other governments of small island states, of coastal states and of countries and continents that are not as wealthy and prosperous as the european union overall. so, i hope they take along that urgency and then put it and convert it into some real action, because after madrid the real action has to start. as it stands right now, not a single one of the european union member states has submitted a national greenhouse gas reduction plan that would be adequate or in any way sufficient in order to reach the paris agreement targets. but the eu targets are also far from sufficient. in fact, they were agreed in 2014, so before the paris summit. clearly, we need to step up the game because, right now, europe does not lead the game. we are looking elsewhere; we are telling other countries that they should do something. but that doesn’t work. we need to act ourselves; we cannot wait for others to act. a stable climate is not just a nice thing to have, it’s absolutely vital in order to have a liveable planet for the younger generation and also for future generations. it’s vital for security and for peace worldwide. and also, if we’re lagging behind, as we’re doing right now, we’re also losing out on technologies, on climate jobs that, right now, our competitors elsewhere in the world are developing. it is time to act and the member states need to finally agree on the climate neutrality target of 2050. but, let’s be clear, and let’s keep in mind that that is not a very ambitious target. we should actually do much more to follow the finnish example and be more ambitious, because 2050 is really late. but having targets for some time in the future is anyway not enough; we need to have concrete measures right now. we need to make sure right now that we will, at some point, achieve and reach targets. and what better way to use as a concrete measure our long—term budget? this is where we decide where we put our money, and we should put our money where our mouth is. that means that we should have a multiannual financial framework (mff) that invests in renewable energies and in ecological agriculture and not, as it is foreseen at present, in agricultural mass production and in fossil fuels. we need to change our priorities. if we don’t change where the money goes, then nothing will change in terms of the actual policies. the eu has to play its fair part in a fair transition and that also needs resources for the european union. otherwise we have a lot of demands but not the resources to implement them. and that’s why we, the greens, fully subscribe to the parliament’s position of having at least 1.3% of the gni as the overall amount. but on the income side we also need to be sustainable. a plastics tax or a carbon border adjustment tax is not just a revenue; it can really be a means of how to shape policies and make sure that we have policies that protect the environment and support a fair transition. and of all of these elements, the european council can, but also really should, deliver. because in order to stay credible, the eu has to lead with ambitious targets and we have to deliver them at home. if not now, when? so, i wish the best of luck to the finnish presidency and really hope that all the groups here can contribute by urging governments to actually play their role and say yes to climate neutrality, yes to an ambitious mff and not just continue with business as usual.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not we are talking about the next european council in december. you have proposed 27 commissioners for the commission, one commissioner per member state - that is your rule. but if i am not mistaken, the eu still has 28 member states, not 27. that's one less math from takka-tukka country. the new commission will not be operational until the united kingdom has nominated a commissioner. the uk is a member of the eu - one of 28 - and each member is entitled to one commissioner. that is the legal situation. you're breaking your own rules again. and don't give me that need to restore my ability to work. the old commission is still functioning! it's just that the new one will have to wait a little longer until she takes office. they are trampling on the law, whether on a large scale - as in the case of the euro rescue back then, when the non-assistance clause was broken - or on a small scale, as we are seeing here, when the new commission is taking up its duties. a union in which practical arbitrariness replaces the law as it is negotiated is built on sand. another is that the cost to the eu is skyrocketing. the european council has just approved the european parliament's 2020 budgetary surplus to a very large extent. they continue to inflate the already too generous eu budget. the eu budget is to be increased by a further eur 850 million for the coming year. you're not used to being thrifty. what's the point? the citizens pay for it and don't even know it. the eu is being fattened up while the german taxpayer is being put on a diet, and not just the german taxpayer. it is significant that german members of the so-called liberal and christian democrats are also welcoming this. both parties are basically selling everything they once stood for. i can only hope that in a lucid moment the council will think of something better and not endorse the agreement on the budget. but unfortunately, i think the same monster of senseless waste is there. they want to provide an additional eur 500 million for climate policy projects. this is classic subsidiarity, pure ideological satisfaction, complete misallocation. have you forgotten your milk lakes and butter mountains of old? this top-down economic policy did not work then and it will not work in the future. the still gigantic share of the agricultural budget should be a sufficient reminder to you. i was afraid to look at the ecb and the eib in addition to the direct subsidies from the budget. the eib is now to become the climate bank. it will cause a succession of investment disasters by overriding the price mechanism with its promotional loans. the ecb is supposed to be conducting a climate-friendly monetary policy, when it is not even able to normalize the interest rate level. the european central bank is not responsible for industrial and environmental policy, i beg you! mrs lagarde is already calling for an expansionary fiscal policy. its mandate relates to the ecb's monetary policy. the german nomination of mrs schnabel to the ecb is the crowning achievement. i really do not understand how germany could nominate someone who is undermining the position of the bundesbank even before his appointment. we will keep this from the federal government for years. unfortunately, this will not benefit the german saver. the only thing to say is that the euro has failed, so you must keep your money safe from the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be speaking with a much less optimistic tone than many of the other speakers who have come here today, not because i want to introduce elements of pessimism but because i would like to be a little more realistic about the scenario we are facing. i would like to add a political point, which we pretend to keep out of this house, but which goes with all these summits: the council is firm because there is an underground conflict, which is beginning to emerge, between france and germany over a future overall vision of the european institutions, talking about nato, talking about defence, talking about economic issues. this is a major issue which has paralysed the work of the council to date. so i think that all the issues we are going to talk about and for which we are making some very good announcements today, hoping that the council, under the new presidency, will be able to deal with these issues, we know that starting with the mff, that is to say starting with the basic budgetary instrument, there is a series of glaring contradictions. climate change is a top priority, important indeed and we would miss something else, it is a fundamental issue. it should be remembered, however, that european emissions are 9% of global emissions and that this is therefore an important battle on a global scale, otherwise it would be very limited in the very small context of our continent. it is very important, above all, to link this to the other financial issues which are not mentioned. as regards the request for additional resources, i would like to include a reflection on the european stability mechanism, which is creating a strange system of automaticity between the request for aid for debt restructuring, which leads to the disregard of the countries which, in a substantial and main way, contribute to the establishment of this fund, perhaps preventing them from being able to use it. these are also requests for resources from individual states which must be considered in the overall picture. when you talk about a series of considerations on the mff theme and say: we are not reducing cohesion policies, we are not reducing agricultural resources, we are imagining that we are going to increase climate change policies to an exorbitant extent for a large environmental programme, and we are hearing a lot of good things that are not reflected in reality, and that make us think that the next council in december will be yet another occasion in which we will hear more statements of principle than concrete facts. i would like to conclude with an example which will not be touched upon by the european council on this occasion, recalling the many proclamations made on immigration and recalling that, while we are not talking about it any more, hundreds of people die at sea in november - a totally unexpected time - when they leave north africa illegally, and all this is happening with indications from the various intelligence services of the countries, which point out the inclusion and the risk of infiltration of jihadism. all these considerations are considerations which parliament, but above all the council and the commission, often have to face when the problem arises, not when there are such serious signs that are being pointed out. that is our hope and that is why there is not much optimism about the prospects for the next council.
mr president, the december meeting of the council will take place in a changed environment, with president charles michel at the helm of the european council, but also hopefully with the new commission very clear as to what the priorities for the next term should be, and this house more pluralistic and more assertive. we here in strasbourg and brussels will be very cooperative, but also very watchful as to checking whether the promises are being kept. there is a widespread feeling, and i share it, that we need to significantly change our institutional gears and redirect our efforts more decisively towards meeting the expectations of citizens. we must spare no efforts to strengthen the pro-european sentiment among our main constituents, the people of europe. and among the people i mean also migrants: i mean the british expats after brexit, those who look for asylum to gain security for the lives, refugees from war-torn areas, and climate refugees soon to come. the dialogue on europe and its future with citizens and other relevant stakeholders in european future should be permanent by principle. these are the times when we can again have hope for creating a european demos. and i know that we have somehow forgotten this ambition but we must not divest ourselves of the ideal of making the union something more than just a convenient meeting place for mutual recognition of member states’ interests. we see that this elusive european demos is arising spontaneously, especially among the young people in response to the climate crisis. our role should be to facilitate the creation of a welcoming and generous space where this nascent demos will not only emerge, but will thrive and not only in response to climate emergency, but in tackling jointly other issues. there is no better environment than the european union to construct a sustainable and flexible space to leave to the next generation a better europe. the political landscape is fast-changing and citizens should feel they are the primary gardeners of this new landscaping, so let me finish by wishing the new leaders of the european council and the commission, hopefully, god speed in the task they undertake.
madam president, as president delors said, europe advances when parliament and the commission move forward hand in hand. tomorrow, this parliament must say yes en masse to the new college of commissioners so that we can finally tackle together the challenges which concern all citizens. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time it is necessary to extend a hand to the council, and especially to the european council, so that it can play its role of political impetus and guidance effectively. we must find pragmatic solutions to our most pressing challenges with adequate financial resources to meet our ambitions. the european council in december should be decisive for the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. we need an ambitious budget that can respond to the priorities of the union and defend the common european good. to do this, it must reach 1.3% of gross national income, as this parliament has demanded. and above all, we must put the european union's long-term climate change strategy into action if we are to achieve our goal of being the first climate-neutral continent, with a just ecological transition that leaves no one behind. in addition, we must strengthen traditional european policies such as the cap and social and territorial cohesion and address the challenges of migration, an inclusive and just digital transition, the fight against youth unemployment and, above all, the implementation of the gender strategy. the citizens, and especially the young, gave us their confidence in the last european elections with the highest percentage of participation since 1994, but, señorías, it is not a blank cheque. only if we work together can we build our common future and build a new europe that is more feminist, more ecological, more social and more just.
madam president, i’m sure the members of the council are delighted that they don’t have to spend much time this time around discussing brexit and the british elections have given them some breathing space to focus on more important topics. sadly, as a british mep, i can’t escape the brexit nightmare and it rumbles on through our election campaign. this means yet more lies and deceptive soundbites, of which the latest is ‘get brexit done’. with three and more years of uncertainty and understandable feelings of brexit fatigue, it is natural that british voters will be tempted by such an offer. but the reality of johnson’s deal is that it would lead to years of difficult negotiations and the risk of a cliff—edge brexit at the end of 2020. it must be rejected. as greens, we know that the climate emergency is a far greater crisis facing us, which is why we are determined that this should be a climate election. yesterday, the world meteorological organization revealed that global greenhouse gas emissions reached a new high last year. setting a net—zero carbon target of 2050 is totally inadequate and flies in the face of both the science and what our children are demanding of us. aiming for 2050 means risking runaway climate change, a risk to citizens’ lives that we must not take. this is an emergency. we must act as if we mean that. leaving it too late to achieve carbon neutrality could literally mean the difference between life and death for millions of people. it could spell the end of human civilization. safeguarding our planet for future generations calls for urgent action. this means challenging sectors often considered too politically sensitive, taking on the vested interests of aviation, which is still subsidised with european money, the automobile sector and agribusiness. above all, it means an end to our obsession with economic growth. when your grandchildren ask you, ‘what did you do in the climate emergency?’, you had better make sure you have a good answer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, i would just like to ask ms scott cato what empirical proof she has that the end of the transition period when we will be leaving the european union – hopefully on a canada-plus style trade deal – will result in a cliff edge when, as far as i’m aware, she does not have any degree in economics. and maybe she has some business experience that will give some empirical proof that that would be the case? so i was wondering whether you could answer that question, why you’re so certain that the united kingdom will suffer as a result of a ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card answer. – obviously you haven’t been paying much attention to my cv because i was, and i remain, a professor of economics. (laugher and applause)i also have expertise in trade policy and have been studying the trade negotiations from the beginning. i rely on the expertise of other trade experts, all of whom have said it takes much longer than the time available to negotiate a treaty. and the likelihood is if we go ahead with boris johnson’s deal, we will end up in exactly the same crisis facing a no-deal brexit at the end of 2020. (applause)
i think mr rowland stands corrected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you want to debate the forthcoming council meeting today and the focus is always on climate, i would argue that this could be a kind of misunderstanding, especially in view of the major problems that exist here in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a zero interest rate policy in the euro area, which is now going into a negative interest rate policy. we have a situation where the banking sector could be cleaned up again next year. we are therefore in a situation where prosperity on our continent could continue to decline and we should finally take effective action in this sector. we discussed some time ago that in the euro area we finally need something like a glass-steagall act at the european level, a separation between commercial and investment banks, to protect the banking sector and our financial circuitry and our monetary system accordingly. i'm afraid nothing is going on. there is something happening again on the climate issue: we are discussing whether new co2 taxes are coming, whether new restrictions should come and so on and so forth. i think that the subject is not well-defined. what you are doing is striking at the european automobile industry, which is also the heart of the economy of our continent - whether it is germany or france: these are engines. and if you damage the automotive industry, you damage the food supply industry, you damage the food supply industry, you damage families and their incomes. i think that's wrong. where something could be done by the european union, that is clear from my point of view: we have debated that the transport of goods across the continent - bringing agricultural products from eastern europe to western europe, then processing them, reselling them in another country, transporting animals - has created an extreme burden for this continent. all of these are things that you could do something about for the environment immediately and effectively. here you are behind in generating the equivalent. i appeal to your common sense and to your priorities: deal with the right issues at the right time with the right gravity and do not always look for excuses.
last week, mr president, we reached a historic agreement on the 2020 budget, a historic one in the sense of a forward-looking shift towards investment in areas where the eu can indeed provide significant added value. i am thinking of research and development, energy, transport and infrastructure. we must certainly make a similar change to the budget, the next multiannual budget: the european union is committed to the development of a european space policy that is based on the principles of the european union's space policy. a green deal for europe can only succeed if we invest the resources where they are needed. advocating climate neutrality and at the same time condemning nuclear energy, as some in this hemisphere do, is absolutely inconsistent. but it is encouraging to hear the green spokesman refer to the finnish example this morning. finally, a message for the future president, charles michel. in october 2017, you were the first head of government to condemn the violence in catalonia. i sincerely hope that you, as president, will also be on the right side of history and will not close your eyes to political prisoners in the eu.
madam president, mrs tuppurainen, do you know what the problem is? the problem is that in all the major european issues that we have before us, the council has long been a huge brake and has been consistently below the mark. we want a new multiannual budget which, in order to serve the objectives, not those which the european parliament is asking for but those which you have set, cannot be one per cent of european gdp. we cannot serve the climate change goals, which must be ambitious. we cannot approve in the european parliament the cuts to cohesion policies or the drastic reduction of funds for the common agricultural policy. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is not possible that what you give to erdogan's turkey you deny to north macedonia. and finally, to finally adopt the reform of asylum policies and not block it, because it is impossible for my country, greece, to bear the burden of the refugee alone, with a lack of solidarity, because you are hostages of the politicians orban and salvini.
madam president, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the december european council deals with the seven-year framework budget. the european parliament's common position across the political groups is that a proposal for a fair seven-year framework budget should be drawn up for the european council. i would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the council representatives to five clear and unequivocal points concerning the next mff, the seven-year framework budget. first of all, the system of rebates must be abolished. this system creates a completely opaque and unfair situation in terms of the contribution of each member state to the union budget in relation to its gross national product. secondly, the council's proposal should take account of the fact that a significant part of the funds received by the ceecs as cohesion funds will be returned to the old member states in terms of 2004 in the framework of economic cooperation. the cohesion development funds granted to the central and eastern european member states actually contribute to the economic development of the eu15. thirdly, it is unfair and unacceptable to reduce cohesion resources, especially given that countries with poorer economies and lower economic performance than the eu average would have to suffer a greater reduction in cohesion resources, while countries with an economic development level equal to or above the eu average would suffer a much smaller reduction or none at all. fourth, we need a flexible budget. the budget proposal of the outgoing commission and the thinking of the finnish presidency, according to the sources available to us so far, continue to paint the picture of a rigid budget. and last but not least, on the issue of climate change, i have a deep conviction that at this moment, it is not a future threat, but a sad state of affairs, that our ambitions are currently empty words. not just the young, but the active age and the elderly, we've had enough of this. it is impossible that the council only a month ago thought of asking the commission to draw up a concrete plan and the common eu funds allocated to that plan for the support needed to achieve the 2050 climate targets. so a draft budget without concrete measures would be unfair.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for the forthcoming european council calls for concrete progress on two key points: the multiannual financial framework and the fight against climate change are obviously related issues. the union must have an ambitious road map to tackle the climate emergency, as we heard from our commissioner timmermans, but to achieve this we must allocate adequate resources without delay, so as to achieve climate neutrality quickly with investments that allow a fair transition, to create new jobs, to make our countries hydrogeologically secure. the green new deal, which the new commission is pledging to put forward, must be able to do exactly that, but, as i said, it needs resources. parliament must therefore be clear, it must be uncompromising in negotiating with the member states an ambitious budget which meets these needs. i would also like to point out that we are already facing a situation of great uncertainty in relation to extreme weather events, which are becoming more frequent and often have disastrous consequences. the situation is often dramatic and i call on the heads of state and government, who are meeting shortly, to draw up urgently an extraordinary strategic plan at european level to deal with this crisis. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this. look at my region, liguria, and genoa, which is already on its knees, repeatedly covered in mud, and increasingly isolated. fortunately, our government is reacting with readiness and determination, but a collective european commitment is needed, because these phenomena and situations are affecting more and more european citizens and their lives, their security and their chance of living well must be guaranteed through a common commitment with the right ambition.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an important european council, not only because it is the baptism of fire of our own charles michel, but probably - and i hope - also because it is the beginning of the commission of ursula von der leyen. and commissioner timmermans, you were right, i think, to thank president juncker. i have to tell you: the european union is a great country, and the european union is a great country. we have successfully fought off that stupid trade war of donald trump. that's what we want, and we actually want more of that. we want europe to show that it can be great on the world stage: i am convinced that the european union must be able to take a stand against the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the chinese communist party, the united states, the united states, etc. but to achieve this ambition, europe must also have the necessary resources. cooking costs money. put your money where your mouth is. that is why i am asking for sufficient resources to be allocated to security, defence, migration, external border protection and the speedy establishment of frontex. i think that's what the citizens are asking for. and of course, the climate. the citizens rightly expect us as europe to take the lead, to be ambitious and to achieve results. that is what we must do and that must be reflected in that budget. that is why i ask the council: i am not saying that we should be in favour of the european parliament, but that we should be in favour of the european parliament. make europe great again. that is what i expect from this european council: the commission's proposal is to be ambitious, concrete and to deliver the results that the citizens expect of us.
we are now in the midst of a debate and a decision on the new multiannual financial framework. brexit will lead to a different allocation of resources, and that was to be expected. but we must be careful that the burden we share among ourselves does not strike the weakest among us the hardest. the announcement of cuts in the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy has rightly alarmed some of the newest member states, which are still lagging behind the developed member states. my home country, croatia, is the newest member of the union and is just beginning to enjoy the benefits of membership. cutting off resources that have been available to others for a long time would have a negative impact on our development. as we stand on the brink of a new recession, we must think about reform and increasing resilience. additional investment is needed in countries like croatia to avoid the devastating effects of the last financial crisis.
madam president, in this discussion of the cfp, i hear that cohesion policy is a traditional policy. this is not true, but cohesion is above all a requirement for today and a guarantee for the future. what i want to say to the council is that there is no future for europe without a future for cohesion, and to lack ambition for the european budget is ultimately to lack ambition for europe. we must also remember that cutting the cohesion budget is a blow to the very heart of the european idea, because it is solidarity that makes up our common project. the reduction of the cohesion budget would therefore ultimately satisfy the europe-haters, who are waiting for nothing more than that. finally, i would like to say that cohesion is not just about solidarity, because cohesion policy will allow the deployment of new policies such as the new green deal and the just transition fund. so be careful about the judgments you make.
madam president, i would like first to welcome minister tuppurainen and first vice-president timmermans back to parliament. it is the task of all of us to deliver the best policies for the people of the european union. we may deliver on the details, but we should be united on the task to deliver policy for the people of the european union, and as of 1 december, with the new european commission, with the new leadership in the council and in the other institutions of the european union, we truly have no more excuses not to speed up our delivering of policy. one of the best tools which we have at our disposal to deliver for the people of europe is the budget of the european union, and my approach here is the following. firstly, we should ask ourselves what we expect from the european union in the next decade, in the next 10 years. we have seen the people of europe come out and vote in large numbers. farmers expect support from the european union. local communities expect investments in the form of cohesion policy. students want more mobility programmes, as does youth in general. researchers, people who work in digitalisation and innovation expect the european union to stand by their side. citizens in all corners of europe want us to do more on security, defence, protecting the external borders of the european union and people, particularly our youth, who speak united with one voice on combating climate change. if we agree that the european union should deliver more in the next decade, then this needs to be reflected in the budget of the european union. we have to be honest with the citizens of europe. we cannot do more with much less money. this is why our message to the council is clear: please put your money where your statements are. if we agree to do more, then this needs to be reflected in the budget and i appeal to minister tuppurainen to use the december european council for a high-level political discussion; not details of the negotiating box, but make the leaders, the heads of state or government, agree on the political priorities. then it’s easier to agree on the numbers. if we start discussions by discussing numbers, then the discussions will be divisive and it will just be in the market place. what needs to unite us in the beginning is a vision for europe for the next 10 years and the budget at the service of this vision. what should our priorities be? a balance between old and new priorities. just because agriculture and cohesion are old priorities doesn’t mean that they are outdated. they have been our priorities for decades because they are important, but clearly we have to do more in research, innovation, climate, digitalisation and security. coming to the end of my intervention, we have to deliver now. we have seen several delays in this mff and we have to be honest – we, the european institutions, were one of the causes of these delays. we adopted the budget late in 2013 for this mff. we should learn from the mistakes of the past. the sooner we adopt the budget, the better, but in any case no later than spring 2020.
madam president, the european parliament would like 1.3% of the gross national product of the member states to be devoted to the european budget. this is far from taking into account the expectations expressed by our citizens in terms of research policy, security policy and so on. the attitude of our member states is not up to the task, to say the least. we want more security, but grace, without any increase in the budget. we would like to win the race against the great economic giants, china, the united states and others, but thankfully, at zero tariff. we would like to be the champions of research, but thank god, without a penny more in our budgets. everyone knows that multilateralism is being undermined by the united states; there is a great vacuum here which calls for europe to take responsibility, but russia, turkey, iran, in fact, the representatives of the old empires, are left to do their job. most of our member states are not aware of the historic duty which lies before them. i now turn to the second item on the agenda for the next council, namely climate change. we must do everything in europe to achieve carbon neutrality. after brexit, we account for about 7% of greenhouse gas emissions. so the threat is global, and if the threat is global, our response must also be global. the climate diplomacy of the new commission and mr timmermans is therefore essential if we are to succeed in getting china and india, which alone account for more than 50% of greenhouse gas emissions, to adopt a policy that can help us win the fight against climate change. it was jeffrey sachs who recalled this a few months ago before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on development of the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new commission of ursula von der leyen is starting very badly, and it is showing right away that it will not serve the interests of the italian people and the peoples of europe. the new commission will continue to be a slave to the banks and the lobbies, to the interests of germany and france, of merkel and macron. the italians expect nothing good from a commission with figures like mrs vestager, who bankrupted italian banks, or the former italian prime minister gentiloni, famous for silently accepting orders from brussels and berlin. and the italians expect nothing good from the december council, where the esm reform, which is very dangerous for italy and for all european citizens, will also be discussed. in short, ursula's europe will not change anything compared to the disasters engineered by juncker. in fact, given the circumstances, von der leyen will do even worse than the failed juncker commission. but rest assured, the italians will not be silent!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming european council does not give us much hope. there is still no decisive step on the new multiannual financial framework. we have wasted months discussing surreal conditionalities on the rule of law, but we still do not understand what will happen to the cohesion funds and the cap, which risk paying the price of brexit for no reason. general commitments on climate change, which are then advanced at national level with new taxes and bureaucracy, while new emergencies are advancing that would require instead of investing in prevention to defend a territory plagued by extreme climate phenomena. but what worries us most is what might be decided, on the margins of the council, on the reform of the european stability mechanism: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a line that has already failed and must be forcefully returned to the sender.
a chairde, whatever the outcome of the westminster election on 12 december – i will be voting for elisha mccallion in derry – and whatever the latest decision on brexit, the uncertainty and damage done to ireland by its larger neighbour will damage the eu too. in april 2017, the european council said reunification would result in the whole of ireland automatically entering the eu. partition is not only ireland’s problem, it’s now the eu’s problem too, and irish unity is the solution for ireland and for the eu. if you want to protect eu citizens from post—brexit britain’s lower standard of goods entering your market, then you need to help remove the british border in ireland. its democratic removal is outlined in the good friday agreement, so support the constructive and positive debate about constitutional change in ireland. even the fine gael government’s youth wing has called for a unity referendum within five years. irish unity is no longer an aspiration: it’s a project. a wise european council would know that, and only a foolish one would ignore it.
madam president, the new president of the council will find urgent matters on his desk which require urgent policy. the climate crisis is not a matter for the next five years, it's a matter for the next 50 years, and it's one of these urgent matters. the european green new deal affects all of us. and we all have to be involved in its solution. fighting climate change will not be the task of one man, or even the task of one political party; it is the task of all men, all women and all political parties. it must be a policy that covers all areas and must be supported by solid majorities and stable majorities. to make the fight against climate change an ideological issue, to legislate from partisan positions is to condemn the fight against climate change to failure. either we're all in this together, behind it, or we're not doing anything. the fight against climate change is being damaged by those who do not want to join the consensus and by those who exclude others from the consensus. you're not better at fighting climate change the more alone you are. the best are always those who know how to form majorities in the face of the challenges of history. our position is clear. we need a green pact that is three times sustainable: to have a sustainable climate, to have a sustainable industry and to have a sustainable society. we need a green pact that combines our climate protection policy with our social market economy; otherwise we will lose the support of the citizens and we will be supporting the theses of the nationalists and populists. if we do not do this, we will not protect those who are already suffering the consequences of climate change: coal producers or farmers in flood-prone areas who are rightly asking for help. climate action is neither left nor right. it is simply a moral imperative. and in the coming months, we will have to deal with brexit after brexit. if there is a new referendum, we will have to get involved - something we did not do in the first referendum - and if there is no new referendum, brexit after brexit cannot turn the uk into the invisible member of the european body, the ghost member of the european body. we cannot react to the united kingdom with nostalgia, but neither with revenge or resentment. and by the way, a united kingdom separate from the european union will not be able to fight climate change on its own. and i hope the council will be involved in the next conference on the future of the european union. without the council, we'll never get anywhere. and we need to get ahead of it, because the european union is like a bicycle, if you stop, you fall.
and that can be painful.
madam president, you referred to this european council as being the changing of the guard and indeed the british general election is on the same day as the first day of the european council. the results should be known on the second day. so indeed it may well be marked by a changing of the guard and i’m sure that many of us in this parliament hope that that is the case. you said also that it will be looking at the next steps for brexit. well indeed, with a new government in britain, we will be moving to a situation of having a new referendum on brexit within six months, based on a different deal than boris johnson’s deal. we would like to revise that to make it a less damaging deal for britain and indeed for europe – closer, staying inside the customs union, closer to europe, not tearing up our relationship as one alternative, and the other alternative to remain in the european union. if the british people choose to leave, it will be on the basis of a deal that can be implemented immediately and would be less damaging to everyone. but there is every chance that they will vote to remain in the european union and this whole sorry business can be put behind us. mark my words, if boris johnson loses his majority, we will be moving to another referendum. every single opposition party, not just labour – the main opposition party that will lead the next government – but every opposition party in the british parliament now supports another referendum on brexit and that is something that the european council must take account of as it examines the next steps forward on brexit, as you said, on its agenda. beware. it is not going to be the steps that boris johnson wanted. it will be steps in a rather different direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – mr corbett, i know the british population is terribly confused by your leader’s brexit position. he has talked about negotiating a new agreement with the european union then putting it to another referendum remaining neutral. could you elucidate us a little bit further on what kind of new deal the labour party is looking for with the european union and then what your position would be post that in terms of whether you would support your leader in neutrality or you would vote for remain?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the next council will be the first council after the election of the new commission tomorrow and after the commission of ursula von der leyen takes office. so you have a chance. the council has the chance to behave like a gentleman and to approach the new commission president and her work programme and change its attitude towards the commission and the future of the european union. and those who are for the new commission must learn from the mistakes of the past. i therefore expect that you will, as a sort of gift to the new commission, remove the unanimity on all those issues which concern the european union's ability to act in the world and greater justice and fairness within the european union. i expect you to take measures to make the objectives of the new commission in the field of climate change, migration, external border control and the budget possible. i would like to see the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. go and open your statements to our common challenges, to europe's role in the world and to all the issues where we have seen in recent years that we are pushing our limits in the decision-making and opinion-forming process, thus reducing and jeopardising the hopes of citizens in the european union project tax policy, migration, asylum, security, research, investment, africa policy, climate and environmental protection, to name just a few. helmut kohl once said: the great challenges we face force us all to work together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, it is. but then we will stop telling the citizens all the time that we can solve the problems within the member states alone, instead of going to each other. if you, as the council, behave like a gentleman towards the new president of the commission, we shall have a good future together.
madam president, a month ago the european parliament adopted a resolution on the next multiannual financial framework, which, on behalf of the newly elected members, set out our position for the negotiation of the union's budget for the period 2021-2027. we reaffirmed our determination not to be forced by the heads of state or government to take sides at the next council meeting on 12 and 13 december. i would like to say that parliament is ready and that it is well prepared. we have proven arguments and we will defend an ambitious budget which gives the european union the financial means to meet the commitments it has made. this is what europeans expect, including young people in the streets for climate marches and civil society more generally. we therefore want real political and financial efforts to achieve our goals and to respect the paris agreement while ensuring a just ecological transition for all. it is therefore not a good idea to consider refusing a mff if the proposed project does not suit us, but it is our responsibility to remember that this is what europeans, and especially young people, expect for the next five years. we're at a crossroads, and everything is at stake. we therefore deplore the delay already experienced in these negotiations, which presages the worst for the final beneficiaries. i am thinking in particular of the associations that care for the most deprived, such as food banks, which already in 2014 found themselves in great difficulty because of institutional delays. this time i repeat a request already made in the resolution of last october, this time to the european commission: it is really necessary to prepare an emergency plan to protect the final beneficiaries and guarantee the continuity of funding in the event of a blockage scenario. parliament is ready and we want this budget to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens.
madam president, the topic of the day is climate change and the european union budget for 2021-2027. the european council will discuss the issues in question and prepare the budget priorities. we want to be leaders in climate change, in social policy, in justice, in the rule of law, in international aid, in education, but we also want to be leaders in gender equality and freedom and many other areas. this is right, because the eu has the potential and is indeed a world leader in many areas, in many of these areas already today. but we need to know how we're going to pay for all of this. if we want to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030, we're going to have to find a huge amount of funding to do that. and then achieve a real revolution that will lead to a zero-emission economy by 2050. but we also need the socio-economic impacts of these proposals and these plans. i ask that this change finally be made with the participation of the wealthy multinationals, who bear a great deal of responsibility for the status quo, and who also benefit enormously from it. i'm asking for an end to tax evasion, to tax breaks, and for the richest to get involved in making this change happen. i would like to tell the leaders of the member states at the council meeting that change is right and necessary, but it must not come at the expense of the poorest and the working people. change must be fair and must not punish the people who make our system and give it life.
the european council will be important for the new financial perspective for the year. and it will certainly not be easy, because it will require the ability to strike a balance between traditional priorities such as agriculture, cohesion policy and complex new challenges such as climate change, digitalisation, the clean energy transition. it is therefore essential to find rational solutions by expanding the sources of own resources. but the most important thing is to keep the key european priority in the negotiations, which is to build a socially sustainable and safe europe for our people. we must ensure that funding is made available to the most deprived social groups, with a particular emphasis on children, who are our investment in the future. the necessary financial resources must be allocated to the european child guarantee. let us not forget that we have not yet met our commitment to end child poverty. we must invest in young people so that they have the opportunity to learn, work and earn. the creation of quality jobs for all groups of people must also be a priority. investment in economic growth must ensure that the working population does not experience poverty. and i want to thank the finnish presidency for its efforts to find a balanced agreement between the member states and i really hope that constructive and socially-oriented solutions will be found at the meeting. good luck with that.
madam president, the discussion of the multiannual financial framework on the agenda of the next council is vital for the future of the european project. the negotiating position of this parliament is known and clear: an ambitious budget, about 1.3% of gross national income, with the right priorities to meet the challenges of the present and the future - energy transition, climate change, migration, security, defence - but without making the fatal mistake of divesting from convergence, cohesion and rural development. and it is truly amazing how, a few years ago, some seem to have already so forgotten the lessons of the financial crisis that was also a crisis of the euro. without investment in cohesion and convergence, it is not possible to respond to the discontent of citizens that fuels eurosceptic populism and threatens the european project. we therefore need a sufficient level of national contributions to the community budget and a strengthening of the union's own resources, without which, as has already been seen, there will be no solution to this negotiation. in short, we need more ambition and more solidarity for an agreement that is fit for purpose and does not delay the entry into force of a new financial framework for the future of europe.
the council meeting in december will be the first under the chairmanship of the new president, mr michel, and the last under the finnish presidency before the forthcoming croatian presidency. the agenda, while still in principle, already contains two themes of major importance that will largely determine the framework for our work in the coming years: climate change and the multiannual financial framework. climate change requires urgent action, i.e. concrete measures to reverse global warming trends and to phase out carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. the projects we are already implementing, for example in the islands, through the clean energy transition programme can serve as a good example. the islands can be the vanguard of our actions. the differences in views on the multiannual financial framework remain wide. perhaps that's why it's so difficult to predict the outcome of the negotiations. parliament's stance of 1.3% of gdp is justified, especially in the context of a reduced budget due to the possibility of brexit as early as january. we therefore need a progressive budget with sufficient resources to effectively finance the priorities set, from green new deals, through education, research and development, to structural social and cohesion funds. the latter aim to reduce the differences between citizens, regions and member states. we need adequate resources for expansion. despite recent mistakes, this policy should be given new impetus, support and formal recognition through an increased instrument of pre-accession assistance ipa iii.
madam president, i too would like to address the finnish presidency on two issues which, in my view, represent existential threats to the european union. the huge issue of climate change and the environment has already been raised. i shall say no more, because i think that the overwhelming majority of my colleagues agree that it is a well-founded view that we should deal with this problem urgently and rationally. the second issue is the actual threats against the european union, mainly in the form of hybrid covert instruments directed against our security. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is a member of the european union.
madam president, this morning we saw the release of yet another report bringing to light the urgency of the climate emergency, this time from the un environment programme, which shows that the world needs to ramp up its ambitions for cutting emissions fivefold in order to bring us down to the ambition of only 1.5 degree of warming. currently, we are on track for more than three degrees of warming. it’s yet another in the daily reminders of the urgency of stepping up our action to match with our words. and if there is one thing on my christmas list, it is that the european council in its meeting finally sets a united target for zero carbon and 2050 is still too late. we need urgent action because we, in europe, bear historic responsibility for starting this problem, burning fossil fuels to fuel the industrial revolution. we have a responsibility correspondingly to fix it, too, and that starts with leadership in our own department, putting our money where our mouth is, on climate.
madam president, i’d like to express my best wishes to our croatian friends for a successful presidency. commissioner timmermans spoke very powerfully about climate change, our responsibilities to our children and the opportunity to be a role model to the world, and ms tuppurainen spoke of the challenges of brexit to the next eu budget and the need for some to pay more and receive less. i think there’s a way that the council presidency and new commission can do both, and that is to take the lead, to set the example, by ending the senseless pollution caused by transporting this parliament between brussels and strasbourg 12 times a year. by 2050 it would save over 600 000 tonnes of co2 emissions. it would save our hard-pressed taxpayers over eur 3.5 billion. it would send a massive signal to europe and the world that the eu is really serious about fighting climate change. it’s simply not sustainable to keep telling others what to do but refuse to do it ourselves. please will you put this on the agenda?
madam president, what i find extraordinary in this whole debate is the absence of economics. what we’ve seen to date were the two eu climate policies of the renewable energy directive and the emissions trading scheme. both have failed. the emissions trading scheme has put a completely artificial price on carbon that has led to higher energy prices and the closure of things like british steel in the uk. the renewable energy directive has led to perverse incentives and the creation of a new crony capitalist subsidy—seeking climate industrial complex that rivals anything that the fossil fuel companies have produced. it’s also led to environmental damage that, for example, leads to virgin forest being been felled for things like wood chips, biomass and biodiesel for palm oil. the hypocrisy and double standards displayed in this chamber is truly staggering. in addition, not only have we offshored so much co2 to china, but we are also offshoring so many manufacturing jobs. so i would warn you, the commission, to be very careful what you wish for. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i was a bit surprised to hear you express deep concern about the economic impact of climate policies and you say there was an absence of economics in the debate. but i think most experts agree that brexit is going to be an absolute disaster for the economy, and yet you support it. can you explain that?
blue-card answer. – you are dealing with a hypothetical which may or may not happen, that’s it and i can't prove that and you can’t. but what i can prove is that the climate policies are destroying jobs. come up to places like hartlepool, come to scunthorpe, and you’ll see mass unemployment due to these artificially high carbon prices set by politicians and not by economists. and if you moved to the green new deal you’ll continue to see the erosion of jobs and manufacturing which will all be offshored to china. we now produce in the uk 1.1% of all co2. we’ve offshored it to china.
mr president, among the most important rights of every child is not to grow up in poverty, but for too many this right is denied. children grow up in housing that is damp and in disrepair, and schools and healthcare are understaffed. there is unprecedented air pollution, and there’s also a known link between poverty and mental health problems. the uk has four million children living in poverty – 30% of all our children, nine out of every class of 30. poverty is rising because living costs are rising and pay is stagnating, made worse because brexit has destroyed growth in our economy. that is why liberal democrats fight to stop brexit. it’s time for a european-wide guarantee for the welfare of every child. this parliament has previously called for a child guarantee for every child at risk to receive schooling, housing, healthcare and nutrition. let europe unite in protecting all of our children.
mr president, this draft budget for 2020, compared with the previous proposal we voted on here, which was already very small, represents a cut of eur 5.6 billion in payment appropriations and a cut of eur 2.3 billion in commitment appropriations. a budget of less than 1% of the gross national income of all the countries of the european union that destroys any idea of cohesion or solidarity. while determined by an already meagre 2014-2020 financial framework, this budget ends up falling below the ceiling of that framework, with a clear lack of political will to make use of all available instruments to mobilise additional resources. this is an insufficient budget in the areas of economic, social and territorial cohesion, insufficient to promote convergence by supporting productive systems, particularly those of the countries facing the greatest difficulties, with the greatest weaknesses, particularly in terms of production deficits. a budget which is insufficient in the resources it devotes to social and nature protection and a budget which, on the contrary, by cutting where it should not, will direct more resources where it should not, namely the areas of militarism, the areas of external interventionism, the so-called areas of security and defence. as for the rest, nothing new. parliament has a lion's share of the input and a trail-blazing output, and it ends up putting the purple in the bag to meet the council's positions, which is bad for the debate on the multiannual financial framework, although it is not surprising.
mr president, now that the uk is definitely leaving the eu on 31 january and ending our eur 17 billion contribution to the eu budget, i suppose it was entirely predictable that sparks would fly and acrimony begin between the two remaining heavyweights of the eu. it appears that franco-german relations have hit a new low point. we have recently witnessed the unedifying display of little napoleon himself, emmanuel macron, as he parades his global ambitions by humiliating nato, and now it seems, angela merkel. ironically, the germans are really going to miss us. great britain has historically acted as a buffer between those two old adversaries and a deterrent to france’s imperial tendencies. so when the german chancellor uses an english metaphor of gluing the tea cups back together again after macron has broken them, you know it’s getting bad. the eu budget is essentially an exercise in franco-german game theory; even though contributions as small as a percentage of gdp the aggregate of eur 170 billion is big enough to achieve overtly political goals. that is why we never see any reform of the common agricultural policy, which absorbs one third of the eu budget and acts as the world’s biggest subsidy scheme for french farmers. but macron wants more. he’s an avaricious little chappy. germany will now see its contribution double over the next mff, whereas france barely pays a euro more, net. so watching this dispute get resolved will be a welcome respite from my brexit fatigue.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her opening statement, with which i pretty much completely agreed. we were in danger of having a fairly benign to debate with pretty much everybody in the room taking pretty much the same line until mr jaki spoke. i’m actually appalled by what he said. you don’t tolerate people who are different to you. not in 2019! you love them. you include them. you do not put up with them. we all know that inclusion is as much about culture as it is about legislation. how on earth can you create an inclusive culture if we accept that there are places that may not speak about the lives of 10%-plus of their populations? i’d like to tell you about what the creation of these zones has done to homophobic crimes in poland, but i can’t because poland doesn’t recognise homophobia as a motive. that, frankly, tells it at all. commissioner, please, some action?
madam president, it is very sad that in 2019 there are still 71 countries that criminalise same-sex relationships and that people of the lgbti qa plus communities still face prejudice in all walks of life; but there is progress, there is hope. the movement, its time has come, and it is breaking down barriers. we see it every year when millions march at pride events all across the world. tomorrow, colleagues, will mark the 41st anniversary of the assassination of harvey milk, who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the united states and killed for being gay. i just want to finish with his immortal words of defiance and hope: ‘all young people, regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential’. burst down those closet doors once and for all and stand up and start to fight. this parliament joins the lgbti qa plus community in carrying on that fight and that legacy and i say that discrimination will not be tolerated. bigotry will not be allowed; and most importantly love is love.
now it’s my pleasure to give the floor to alexandra louise rosenfield phillips. and i welcome the small presence next to you.
madam president, last wednesday was the international trans day of remembrance. as of this year, over half of eu member states have equal marriage and yet here we are in 2019 discussing the rights of an eu member state to implement lgbti-free zones. this dangerous discrimination is not consigned to poland. in the uk, the number of hate crimes reported has more than doubled since 2013. since last year, hate crimes against the transgender community have risen by 37%. in a politics where trust has dissolved and political leaders in my own country describe members of the lgbt community as ‘tank-topped bumboys’, the political establishment are giving a green light to acts of hate which can ruin lives and lead ultimately to death. make no mistake, this persecution is the insidious resurgence of the right. we must unite to oppose hate in all of its forms. it has no place and must not be tolerated in any of our politics. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – sorry, i did not hear the whole of the question because my translation was on 28 and not number 2, due to this little fellow (baby crying sounds). but, of course, i oppose all forms of hate crime, and it has no place in europe or anywhere else.
madam president, across the world, the lgbti community continues to face discrimination. the eu must lead the way in defending their rights and freedoms. the commission should be prepared to open infringement procedures against member states that violate or fail to protect fundamental rights. and – yes – that includes poland. the ripple effects of homophobic attitudes are felt across the eu, where more than one in four lgbti people have been attacked or threatened with violence in the last five years. populist parties create an enabling environment for this kind of hatred. in the uk, we had incredible pride parades all over the country in june, but even in camden, a liberal, diverse part of london two young women were subjected to a horrific homophobic attack on a bus, just days earlier. hate crimes have risen since the uk’s 2016 eu referendum, fostered by an intolerant political climate. we can and must do better, and it is incumbent on all of us to lead by example.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, single malt whisky, wine, olive oil, butter, cheese and cashmere attract 92% of the us’s trade counter—measures. olives, pork, sweet biscuits – that is shortbread – and other products are also targeted. i’m horrified that the us is targeting malt whisky. i assume that they think this will be a victimless tariff; it will not. young male unemployment in rural scotland is about 20%. the whisky industry employs over 11 000 people, 7000 of them in rural areas. it also has the tenth highest employment multiplier of any industry in scotland, so trickle—down jobs make this a double blow. twenty-two percent by value of single malt goes to the states. however much you may drink on a flight to settle your nerves, the airbus dispute has nothing to do with whisky. i could be moderately sympathetic to a drop in diageo’s profits, but i’m devastated at the prospect of the material impact on investment and job creation that this will cause. the eu is currently applying a 25% import tariff on american whisky. i beg the commissioner to find a way to use the promise of removal of that tariff to safeguard the economy of rural scotland. not that i think there should be a dispute at all, but why should my unknowing constituents find themselves out of work because of a high—level dispute about steel, aluminium and aeroplanes? please go back to the us with honey, as well as vinegar. the whisky industry spends gbp 70 million a year on bourbon casks from the us, and that trade will be lost. for our side of the atlantic, stop this tit—for—tat, job—destroying tariff retaliation. i couldn’t afford the tariffs on good malt or cashmere, but i got the commissioner a tin of fine scottish ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, international trade and, more specifically, fair and rule—based trade is essential for human and sustainable development. therefore, a well-functioning body appellate body is crucial for our rule—based multilateral trading system, and it makes sure that the law of the jungle does not apply to all trading partners, whether they are small or large. commissioner, as you can see, there’s a broad consensus in this parliament on this topic. let there be no doubt: for our political group it’s essential to find a solution within the wto. however, we should not be naive. there’s a chance – and it’s up to our people to make sure that we can get a good look at it – that the us will not engage constructively in finding a solution. the trump administration wants to use the appellate body crisis to change some of their long-standing irritations about the way the wto functions. this is quite a cynical position of the us today. think about the airbus case and their tariffs, but also about the new case that they are bringing against india. it seems that president trump does not want to have the cake, but still eat the cake. however, having a workable appellate body can also be of benefit for the united states, but if the states are not willing to unblock the appointment of the judges, we should stand ready to look for alternative solutions and stand firm on these issues. i’m quite sure that we’ll also find a united parliament to do so. international trade is much too important to be managed by the law of the jungle, instigated by large trading partners taking advantage of smaller ones. and europe should do everything in its power to defend that fair and inclusive trade.
madam president, we need a rules—based multilateral trading system. greens want fair rules of the trade game: the rule of law, not the law of the jungle where the big beasts ride roughshod over everybody else. the wto is certainly not perfect, and greens have long campaigned for wto reform to address its many flaws. but the way forward – achieving reform – requires countries to work together: dialogue, not confrontation. and the actions of the usa in causing the paralysis of the wto’s dispute settlement system and threatening to block its budget is not the action of a country engaging constructively to solve multilateral problems. frankly, it is the action of a country throwing its weight around. we cannot allow 11 december to be the day that the us unilaterally tears up the rule book. that’s in nobody’s interests. the eu now risks being squeezed between the us and china, both focused on narrow, national self—interest rather than the common good. so multilateralism is very much under threat. i’m glad that trade commissioner—designate phil hogan has indicated that wto reform will be a top priority for him in his work next year. for now, the eu needs to do everything possible to find a negotiated solution to the appellate body crisis. and looking ahead, we need a renewed, a reformed multilateral trading system, one based on shared commitment to rules, global solidarity and a commitment to ensuring that trade works towards our shared climate goals.
madam president, ms von der leyen, commissioner-designates, it took a while to get here and it involved compromises for many, but the time has come for europe to get on with its work and start producing legislation that benefits the lives of all europeans. ms von der leyen, i admire your ambition to create a gender-balanced team. you fell slightly short at the last minute, but there has never been such high female representation in europe’s top jobs. thank you for your determination to make this happen, and i now look forward to seeing similar balance in all of europe’s institutions – on its boards and at its top tables. we must also work hard to ensure higher minority representation across all our european institutions too. of course, i am very disappointed that there is no british commissioner sitting with you today. yet again, our infantile government has damaged the credibility and reputation of our nation. but let me assure you that the last remaining sane brits are working on fixing that little problem, and we welcome your support. in our meeting, before we supported you as commission president, you told us that you would consult with british pro—europeans on language and brexit policy, and i look forward to us meeting on that shortly. i believe there are serious challenges facing europe today, but also many reasons for optimism. you have rightly prioritised the climate emergency, digitalisation and migration. i look forward to seeing file after file come before this house for our scrutiny, policies that will leave europe in a better position than it is in now. ms von der leyen, it is my deepest wish that i will still be sitting in this house in five years’ time to see the results of the work you are embarking on today. as alyn smith said, this is an ambitious and brilliant project, and you should all value it greatly. (applause)
president, the green deal is the great experiment of this commission: europe climate neutral by 2050. and i asked myself: how much does it cost? i have not heard that question until now, after two hours of debate. of course, i study the commission's documents as if they were bible documents, and i read in them an amount of 575 billion euros a year. that's how much it costs to achieve this goal. over a period of 20 years - because that is back-to-back - that will amount to 11.5 trillion euros. by comparison: that's three times the german gdp. madam president, you have been in the german government yourself, you know what a budget is. my question is actually quite simple: who's paying for this? i can't hear a thing. i can't hear you. then i guess i'll just have to tell you the secret. that's the burger. the public is going to pay for it. the citizen gets higher bills energy bills, higher taxes and has to pay for them. i see even in the netherlands that there are climate riots all over the country, from farmers, construction workers. why is that? because they can't afford this anymore. so, there's a little more to come, ma'am. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card reply. the best thing would be to change this green deal. if i may continue: i think we should stick to nuclear energy. this is one of the main sources of climate-friendly energy. i know that a large part of this house does not agree with that, but that is very important. second, there's the holding of gas. the netherlands is phasing out gas. that's very bad. it costs a lot of money, and gas is a climate-friendly resource. and we also have to stop using biomass, because biomass is not green, as the green people say. it's highly polluting, worse than coal-fired power plants. that's the solution.
madam president, i would like to welcome president—elect von der leyen back to the european parliament and wish her all the best for the vote today. we are all united by the task to deliver the best policy for the people of europe. we may disagree on the details, but this is the task which all of us in this house have, together with the commission. one of the key tools at our disposal to deliver is the budget of the european union for the next seven years. president—elect von der leyen, let me tell you what parliament expects in this area. we have all seen the people of europe come out and vote: students, farmers, smes, people expecting more on security, expecting us to deliver more on tackling climate change. and we have to be honest with the people of europe. we cannot do more with much less. if we agree that europe should do more, this needs to be reflected in the budget of the european union, and the position of parliament is clear: fresh priorities require fresh funding. please join us, president—elect von der leyen, in convincing the council and the member states to put their money where their statements are. this is my first point. my second point: which areas should we invest in? we should strike a balance between old priorities and new priorities. just because cohesion and agriculture have been our priorities for decades doesn’t mean that they are outdated. we need to continue to invest there, but of course we need to invest in digital, climate and so on. my last word is on timing. the budget is important, but it has become urgent as well. let us work together to achieve, in the european council in december, a common understanding on what we expect from europe and what we expect from the budget. let’s not start with small discussions on figures, because those would be divisive. firstly, a political agreement on what we expect and then to put the money where our statements and our expectations are. thank you very much. we are ready to work with you on this. (applause)
madam president, i’m glad that this morning we are speaking with a european commission that has committed to make the european green deal its priority. but the european green deal should not remain a headline. it should become a reality that makes a positive difference in our citizens’ lives wherever they live, no matter how big or small their member state is. embarking on a serious decarbonisation programme that keeps at its core the transformation of our industries will only strengthen our competitiveness, and the european green deal should go beyond targets and revolutionise the way we do business and our industries. it should revolutionise the way we act, how we help our current workers acquire new skills, and how to educate our kids for the industries of the future. we have industries and businesses that are realising that transformation needs to happen and they are looking to our institutions for clear commitment. for the socialists and democrats, the green new deal is an opportunity to ensure a new economic model that puts employees and the most vulnerable people at the centre of our policies. it is an opportunity to enhance our relationships with neighbouring continents such as africa, for example, to foster partnerships and provide cleaner and renewable energy. and it is our opportunity to protect the social well-being of all our citizens. we are ready to work with the european commission, and we look forward to being partners in this transformation to concretely show to our citizens, wherever they are, that the eu project is very much alive and working.
madam president, i say to the president-elect: thank you very much for your priorities. they sound like the right ones and we are willing to work with you on those priorities. but it is also clear that we have our concerns, and they have been elaborated before by ska keller. it is on the rule of law, the social dimension of our internal market and on the humane treatment of refugees in and outside the eu. they are our concerns, so that’s why we will not give you a blank cheque, but as greens we will work with you on the green deal, on digitalisation, on making sure that in those communications – and on the green deal we can expect one in two weeks – we can deliver further, further on probably the great words that we will hear in two weeks. but it comes down to legislation to really change our way of life within the planetary boundaries. that’s where we are going to make sure that is the direction europe is going in. and we are going to work on the actual laws that come later, and there we expect real action. one thing, for example: the climate law, next year will be the only and last chance where we can make our ambition higher before paris really starts. let’s use that momentum next year and we will work with you on that.
president, ladies and gentlemen, with both juncker and mrs von der leyen, the majority here in the european parliament has placed a bourgeois-looking figure, the image of solidity and a slightly dull gray, at the head of the european commission. but appearances are deceiving. the boredom must hide the fact that mrs von der leyen is at the head of a very left-wing, globalist, globalist, centralised and centralising project in the name of and for the benefit of the multilateralist state religion. mrs von der leyen is being dragged into the saddle here to tighten the reins and to blow the whip of further federalism in the european union. mrs von der leyen, your project is contrary to the freedom of the various european peoples, and we will therefore, from the future member state of flanders, politely but with full conviction, fight your otherwise shaky and clumsy coalition.
madam president, i would like to thank the president of the commission for saying that she is a remainer. clarification is always very welcome, and can i just say that it is a devastating revelation and loss to the brexit cause. (laughs) the eu has warned that it’s going to take legal action against my country because we refused to name a commissioner. but what’s the point? we’re leaving anyway, and two that we’ve already had – kinnock and mandelson – have used it as an opportunity to feather their nests to the tune of gbp 10 million. they are extreme eu federalists with no intention to stand up for their people, but merely to comply and feather their nests. so we’re not bothering: a decision by my country which confirms that we are indeed leaving the european union. and remember: if we’re causing you too much trouble, you can always kick us out prematurely. (applause from certain quarters) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
ms harris, there are just two points. this may come as some surprise to you. i’m a remainer too. the second point is: will you accept a blue card from mr smith?
blue-card question. – i am grateful to ms harris for giving way. i would point out that it is a legal obligation – because the eu is a community based on justice and the rule of law – for the uk to appoint a commissioner. the uk is flagrantly in breach because of our nihilistic, irresponsible government. as fellow meps of course we have our own rights and privileges. but, presumably you’re in favour of you yourself giving up your salary and allowances for the time that you’re here if you’re happy for us not to have a commissioner?
blue-card answer. – under uk law we also can’t do it during election period under purdah, so that’s one reason. and another reason is that we also have to answer to the british public. we don’t answer to the eu law, and we made that very clear in 2016 when we voted to leave the european union, sir, but thank you very much.
madam president, the new commission is characterized by the same reactionary materials of which the european union is made, namely, a commitment to an anti-people policy of flexible labour, even cheaper at the minimum, the destruction of social security, crumbs in extreme poverty, the strike of trade union action, mass redundancies, widespread deportations of refugees and migrants. in a period of anaemic recovery and with signs of a new possible synchronised crisis on the horizon, green funds and sharp subsidies for the digital, large profit-making fields of the groups are being promoted. and this in the midst of trade wars, and also within the european union, about the attitude towards the united states, china and russia, the outcome of brexit, the escalation of militarization. the fact that the former german minister of war has been elected to head the commission is both symbolic and significant. you opened and closed your speech, mrs von der leyen, with anti-communism, showing your opponent, showing weakness and fear for the historical truth and the struggle of the peoples, which will strengthen against the european union, capital and governments, and for their contemporary needs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs von der leyen, we will vote our confidence in your commission because we share the commitments you have made here on the centrality of the individual, on immigration, on flexibility, on the role of industry, on internal security, on digital identity, on the fight against cancer, on innovation and research, on relations with the united states. in short, we share a political and not a bureaucratic vision of the union. but we will ensure that the commitments are translated into concrete choices, also in the next union budget. we are certainly committed to combating climate change, but we must also be careful that industry is not penalized, that our agriculture is not penalized. industry is as essential as business is to creating new jobs. that is why we need a competition policy that is up to date and enables our companies to compete not only at national level but also at global level. protection against unfair competition is needed. the silk road, the chinese hegemonic strategy, which risks putting our entire production system in danger by dumping, whether environmental, social or merely commercial, is a serious matter. i said, pay attention to the protection of agriculture. we cannot allow cuts in the common agricultural policy. agriculture remains a fundamental instrument for protecting the environment and safeguarding employment in our european union. so it's not a sustainable role. the european union must also be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world, and to help the poorest countries in the world to find their own way. one final word on the protection of the rule of law. we cannot forget the murder of daphne caruana galizia, we must keep talking until they are found out who really did it, and we are fortunately close to the truth.
president, madam president of the commission, i shall be voting in favour with conviction. we have never had a commission that is so ambitious on climate. who's so woman-friendly and is led by a woman. who's so ambitious on asylum and immigration and defense. that commitment to innovation, digitization and our economy. with mr borrell, who will fight for europe's place in the world. and with you. i am counting on your support for the conference on the future of europe. that it is a conference without limits, which can think about a lot of things, about what the future of europe should look like. i think, mrs von der leyen, that this is a very important signal to our citizens: we have a conference on how europe will work for our citizens in the future. mrs von der leyen, it will not surprise you that i address you as amazon. i expect you to take the reins now. that you are pushing europe, the horse of europe, in the right direction. that you give legs, tight reins, and move forward. go for that policy. that is what i expect from you and all your commissioners in the years to come. and you know, if you do not do that, we in parliament are going to put an end to it. but you're gonna do it with the legs and the tight reins.
madam president, dear ms von der leyen, there are many things i disagree with you about on the creeping federalisation of the european union towards a super state, and i’m really disappointed that, after 40 years’ membership of the european union, we’ve failed to persuade you that europe’s success depends on protecting the sovereignty of our member states. but we are shortly to leave, and i wanted to let you know that, despite our differences, europe has no greater friend than the uk. we recognise your priorities of climate change, economic competitiveness, migration, security and the rule of law, and you’ll find no greater ally than the uk to achieve our mutual goals in those areas. the coming months will present many challenges as we seek to redefine our relationship. i hope that the eu will remember that a strong and free-trading uk has always been in the best interests of europeans, as it is of british citizens. and speaking personally, in the short time i’ve been an mep, i’ve really enjoyed the company, the passion, and the arguments with my fellow mep colleagues. i look forward to working with you – and them – as we look for a better future for all our citizens. (applause)
madam president, president von der leyen, thank you for your declaration that you are a remainer. i am too, and so are tens of millions of britons who will warmly welcome your words. now we’ve completed a thorough process of democratic scrutiny, i welcome the opportunity to vote for the commission today and see it get down to work on the huge issues that face our continent: climate change, trade wars, exploitation, injustice and discrimination. but can i say that i, too, am embarrassed and saddened that the united kingdom has broken eu rules, and so far failed to nominate a commissioner? while 27 other countries compete for portfolios and put their brightest and best forward to serve all of europe, our government has chosen to leave its seat at the table empty. this must be one of the first examples in world history of a nation working hard for less influence, shouting for a smaller voice, lobbying to be silent. i very much hope that a new british government will show much more sense.
madam president, the honorable mrs. von der leyen, the honorable team. you have my support. congratulations to a competent, well-balanced team. you've presented and addressed the real issues that we face, from climate change, migration, digitization, health, demographic issues. and what i'm particularly pleased about is that you want to solve problems in a way that creates new opportunities. this is a guarantee that europe will continue to be the most beautiful continent, the continent with the highest quality of life, and where people will feel happy to stay and develop this beautiful continent. i am delighted that you support the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. i think it's imperative that we do everything we can to democratize these countries, while also helping them to develop backwards. but the key is to focus on the demographic issues, and with the smart village project, i will also try to help find solutions. for the particular (indivisible words) and ... (the president is hereby authorised to speak. )
madam president-in-office, i want to let you know right away that i voted for you, i gave you a blank check, i listened carefully to what you said today. you have a lot of questions to answer and i would have liked you to focus on a united europe. we have three states that are not in schengen, we have parliamentary resolutions. my country has been a member of the european union for 12 years, but it is not in schengen. i wish you would respond to the things that are happening and they're negative. we don't have to put the mop over the garbage. we have big problems with acts of terrorism, with stolen children, with violence against women. what are the solutions here? with election interference and yes, you hesitated a lot in the formation of the commission and that fell from the confidence we had in you. you have to regain your confidence. today's vote is above all a vote of conjuncture and confidence, of access to the acquisition of confidence.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it is regrettable that the new commission was not able to take up its duties on 1 november. as you know, the european parliament has no right to initiate legislation; the european commission prepares the draft. without a new commission, there are no draft laws and therefore no full implementation in the new parliament. the postponement of the commission's suspension will certainly not have a positive impact on the european economy. it is also extremely regrettable that there have been no commissioners from estonia and romania in the european commission for five months. the commissioners represent the interests of europe as a whole, not just their own country. however, the treaties provide that the commission takes the best decisions when it is composed of commissioners from all the member states. it is in the interests of estonia and the european union as a whole that the new commission should start work as soon as possible.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the new president of the commission on her efforts in shaping the new composition of the commission. you take over the commission's leadership at a time when we face many unresolved problems and at the same time many new challenges that require urgent solutions. european citizens place high hopes in you and expect you to meet their expectations properly. and they are many: the rise in working poverty, the persistently high level of youth unemployment, the unjustifiably high number of children in poverty. there is also the structural gender equality problem, which is manifested in lower wages for women and the risk of poverty after retirement, and many others. i very much hope, madam president, that this commission will be able to strike a balance between economic interests and the social priorities of europe. over the next five years, we expect the social pillar to be fully implemented in the eu member states and the commission to play a much more active role in the implementation process. madam president, only a socially strong and responsible europe can unite the faith and trust of our citizens in the european union and be able to unite in responding to new global challenges such as migration, climate change, the transition to a clean economy and many others.
in writing. i am delighted that the new commissioners are here and that we can finally vote on their election today. i would like to thank mrs von der leyen in particular for including culture and education in the name of the portfolio of ms gabriel, as we have asked many times in this parliament. i am pleased that the commissioner for hungary has been given such a key portfolio as enlargement and neighbourhood policy. i hope that the new european commission will pay more attention to the problems of the transcarpathian hungarian community and that in the dialogue with ukraine, they will be able to achieve respect for minority rights, equal, non-discriminatory educational and language opportunities!
in writing. after five months of exhaustive negotiations and hearings, we voted today for a new european commission. the socialists and democrats have nine commissioners in the new college. i am confident that they will act for the good of people and our planet and leave a positive mark on their areas that are crucial for the future: ensuring a welfare state and a just society, strengthening democracy, the sustainable development goals, gender equality, a new migration agreement, a fund for justice. a great friend of slovenia, first vice-president timmermans is taking on the most important task for all generations and the planet - the fight against climate change and the just transition to a zero-carbon society. we entered the campaign for the european parliament elections with a sincere desire to change the political, economic and social situation of our continent. we have fought for a progressive left-left-green alliance, for a shift towards development, solidarity, the fight against inequalities, and for putting environmental protection at the heart of all union policies. i myself enter the new era with the new commission determined to continue to work for the fulfilment of the promises and commitments i made to the people: for a european minimum income standard, the ban on the import of goods produced by child labour, the rule of law, democracy and media freedom, the enlargement of the union to the western balkans, and above all for the dignity of all europeans.
in writing. the hungarian people look to the new commission with confidence. i trust they will not be disappointed. president ursula von der leyen has promised to take a bold step. i wish that were true. i'm asking you to focus on the meat-eating issues instead of the ideological battles and slogans that lead nowhere. you have to be able to step outside of the current fashions, give meaning to every move. it's the only way he'll be able to resist the pressure from the left and make irresponsible decisions. it's the only way he can enforce the founding treaties. do not be under any illusions: many will come up with ideas whose adoption would upset the balance between eu institutions and policies. i therefore ask you to respect the nations that form the basis of the union, the member states, and their constitutional identity. because we're 27 or 28 equal, but we're not the same. be sensitive to the different receptivities of citizens in different places. they are different in their situation, whether it's the transition to a green economy, migration, or the norms of social coexistence. accept that we can think about these things differently. respect what falls within our sovereignty, but act on matters of common concern. do not sacrifice european agriculture and industry on the altar of climate policy. instead, find the balance between sustainability and affordability. with that attitude, he will be able to overcome the east-west divide that has become much stronger than ever.
in writing. there is silence on key eu issues, such as the handling of turkey's expansionist policies. the unanimous decision of the european council to impose measures against turkey does not allow for silence. nor is it simply a matter of eu solidarity with one of its member states, the republic of cyprus. it is about how we deal with the flagrant violation of international and european law, which is an existential issue for the eu and concerns 500 million european citizens. it is also about how we move towards the eu's strategic autonomy in the international environment in the future. today we are voting on the college of commissioners, which includes a number of distinguished members, some of whom i have worked with and have a personal perception of their leadership. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial institutions and the european investment bank is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but personally, i will not hesitate to criticise you severely if you do not respond in practice - more than in words - to these principles that unite us and are in the eu's best interests.
the college of commissioners and the programme presented by the president-elect of the commission are the result of an institutional scrutiny process in which the european parliament has played an active and key role. the action plan and the team proposed to implement it were the result of political commitments made to political forces which wanted to give priority to institutional strength at a time of enormous challenge for the future of the european union. i would particularly like to highlight the progressive pillars of the programme in areas such as the fight against climate change, the just energy transition, the digital transition in the service of people and the reduction of inequalities, and the attention paid to the policies of proximity, convergence and cohesion, which are the result of proposals from the s&d group. i would also like to stress the consistency between these priorities and the tasks assigned to the progressive commissioners. the key to success in implementing the programme is its financing. in order to be consistent with the ambition of its programme, the new commission must be in solidarity with the european parliament in order to achieve a multiannual financing programme 2021-2027 that ensures a joint commitment to cohesion, convergence and innovation, consolidating the european project and its assertion in a changing world.
first of all, we have the pleasure of welcoming to the podium the delegates of the national diet, house of representatives and house of councillors of japan. i am here for the eu-japan interparliamentary meeting. the delegation is led and chaired by mr onodera, member of the house of representatives. it is an honour to welcome our friends to strasbourg. i am also pleased to welcome to the podium 80 pupils accompanied by their teachers who have come to the european parliament to present their declaration on the rights of the planet. welcome to the boys! we thank them and welcome them to the european parliament. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago 13 french soldiers were killed in an operation to combat terrorism and this parliament did not have the opportunity to honour their sacrifice with a minute's silence. i therefore propose that you, mr president, observe a minute's silence and that all our colleagues stand up for our soldiers who sacrificed themselves in mali.
mr jadot, perhaps you were not in the chamber yesterday when we greeted the soldiers who fell in mali. perhaps he was distracted or perhaps he was not present, but this house has already paid tribute to the soldiers who fell in mali. no, i'm not giving you my word. i would like to ask you to take a minute's silence, since this is a common sentiment among all members. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
we shall begin with the vote on the election of the commission. i should like to inform you that the votes will be preceded by a round of speeches by the political groups in reverse order.
mr president, my fellow meps, let’s be honest with our voters at home. this process is a sham. we are being used as a stage army marched out today to rubber-stamp a thoroughly anti-democratic imposition of a top-down power at commission level. this parliament is no more than a faux-democratic charade used to give a veneer of legitimacy to an illegitimate decision-making process. we may salve our consciences by rejecting a few bad eggs at bogus committee hearings, but the truth is all we can do is accept or reject from a bunch of pre-selected candidates, with no real choice. you can heckle as much as you want, but i’m finishing. this hypocrisy is summed up for me by that gigantic poster of ursula von der leyen outside the parliament in brussels. it is frankly distasteful orwellian propaganda. it reads: ‘in fair and free elections the power of the people determines the people in power’. that is true in national democracies but it is a flagrant lie, fake news and disinformation in relation to the commission. ms von der leyen herself was not elevated to a position of power due to people power. the only power on display in her election was a behind-the-scenes cabal, which pushed her forward as a last-minute compromise candidate. and although she only scraped through, she now has the power to dictate the priorities of europe. she has the power to impose her agenda on millions of european citizens, whether they like it or not. from the commission’s ambition for a green new deal, for deeper monetary integration or austerity, or appointing josep borrell, who endorses qualified majority voting on foreign policy that strips nation states of the right to determine their own foreign policy. this federalism steals power from the people and is a naked power grab from the demos to technocrats in the commission, and we’re expected to nod it through. (protests) in the uk, we’re mid general election. voters will directly vote on who they will loan their authority to, yet that... (the president cut off the speaker)
representative of renew group. – madam president, in the last few years we have seen a sea change in the way politics and elections are conducted. we may still deliver leaflets, knock on doors and transmit party political broadcasts on tv, but increasingly our voters are getting their information online through social media platforms and cleverly targeted advertising that takes advantage of ever more effective algorithms to target them individually from thousands of miles away. it’s fair to say that citizens all over europe are at the mercy of anyone with a sinister agenda and a computer. we are undergoing a quantum leap in our electoral processes, one that eclipses the advent of the printing press, the newspaper, the radio and the television, but the gap between this evolving technology, on the one hand, and regulation and legislation on the other, has now become a great digital chasm. both literally and metaphorically, the old rules cease to apply as our legislation falls woefully behind reality. the stubborn refusal of companies such as facebook to take clear and decisive action to police their platforms opens a door into our elections that any foreign actor can waltz through unimpeded. the proper regulation of platforms such as facebook is not an infringement on freedom of speech. it is our moral duty. we must take stronger action against fake profiles and accounts. we must strengthen the eu code of conduct on disinformation, and we must reform electoral laws to cater for the modern era. we must investigate the financing of political parties by the kremlin. for instance, in the uk, we know that russian oligarchs have paid huge sums of money to play tennis with boris johnson. hostile governments are taking advantage of the digital space to interfere in our elections to further their own political goals. with over 50 national, regional and local elections due in europe before the end of 2020, we must start taking this threat seriously. those who detest the idea of democracy and view the messy process of elections as a charade to shore up their positions – vladimir putin chief amongst them – pour millions in economic and human resources into targeting european voters. we have seen this in the uk, france and spain, too. but it’s not just putin who is playing this sinister game. we know that dominic cummings, who is advising our own government, spent time in russia. this must be investigated, and there are many in this house who are here because of the darling of the us alt-right, steve bannon. there are those within our own member states who are more than happy to accept the help of these external actors in their quest for power. i would look at nigel farage but he hasn’t turned up this week. i also look to the prime minister of the united kingdom who has refused to disclose a parliamentary report on russian interference in the brexit referendum of 2016. he knows what is in that report. we know what is in that report, but he refuses to release it because the truth stands in the way of his personal ambition. boris johnson – release the russia report now! things have got so bad that in the uk electoral campaign the government is now impersonating fact-checking websites to spread misinformation. vladimir would be proud. he doesn’t even need to interfere any more. that one of the oldest political parties in europe is willing to do this, says much about how foreign electoral interference takes root, infects our society and becomes the norm. there must be a parliamentary response to this unacceptable behaviour and there must be decisive action, both in member states and in europe, and yet politicians have so far come up short. facebook still operates as the trojan horse into our democracy. the time has come for this new parliament, for this new commission, for this new reality we live in, to get serious. if not, we will be forever at the mercy of any authoritarian at a keyboard. i welcome your opinion, colleagues, and i hope you sense the same danger that i do. (applause)
madam president, i would like to congratulate the vice-president on her election. i apologise for not being here for your opening statement but i understand you promised a coordinated response to foreign interference. it must be coordinated with member states, brexit or no brexit. we know russian money is invested in the uk in particular and in london in particular and that should have given us leverage in resisting and sanctioning against interference in our democratic processes. but the still unpublished intelligence and security committee report, which has already been referred to, may reveal just how inadequate our response has been. will it detail russian influence in the narrowly won brexit referendum? we don’t know because our government, as has just been said by mr moraes quite rightly, has tried to silence our national parliament but still refuses to publish this report, although we know that no government agency or department stands in the way of publication, only the prime minister’s political will. perhaps this is because the report may detail russian donations to our ruling conservative party and to the brexit campaign. our national parliament is currently dissolved and our government may have been at best asleep on the job, but i’m delighted that the european parliament has provided a democratic forum in which we can ring the alarm bell and sound the wake-up call and i hope the commission’s response will be much more determined.
madam president, i would like to congratulate you as well on your election. we adopted the text of this resolution in october, and today i very much welcome this debate. like many speakers before me, i think a lot more should be done because – as we have already heard – in the us it is now accepted that russian interference in the 2016 presidential election took place. in the uk we are not there yet, as our prime minister – boris johnson – claimed last week that he had never seen any evidence of russian interference in uk democratic processes. however, in december 2017, the then uk foreign secretary – boris johnson – said that he had seen evidence of russian interference in uk democratic processes. which boris johnson is telling the truth? as our first minister of scotland said today, prime minister boris johnson is dangerous and unfit for office. in this climate of xenophobia, racism and intolerance towards foreigners, i’m very pleased to hear the tone of the debate today. when i read the text first of all, earlier this year, on our right to engage and make sure that when we talk in this debate, we choose our words very carefully. it is the state organisations and their representatives that get involved in this interference, in which it is not the people who exercise their democratic right to vote and to stand for election in their adopted country. i would know, as a french citizen who represents scotland in this parliament. let’s stop the interference of foreign states, but let’s open up our democracies to all the people who live among us – foreigners like me included. in this coming election, i will not be voting at westminster, but i wish all the candidates good luck – especially the meps here, and especially alyn smith, my cher collègue, to whom i wish all the best in the coming election. (applause)
madam president, i wanted to raise the question by raising the blue card to my two speakers because i think there is a confusion of two concepts. there's the concept of influence, which is when someone informs someone about something truthfully, independently, and the concept of false news, and that's the problem we're facing. spreading disinformation is spreading lies! no one here is against the free media, including social media, spreading truthful information. no one here is protesting. but we are all aware that false information is being spread on social media and that both the european union and the member states must take action. in the czech republic, for example, civilian intelligence warns of russian and chinese influence. its annual report highlights a russian-backed campaign on social media and in the media to weaken the european union and nato through disinformation. influencing political processes is trying to put member states in conflict, and of course in the uk it has succeeded. that means that this is about preventing the spread of lies, not restricting the freedom of the media. on the contrary, we want a free media, that's what we all call for. that is why i think that both the european union and the member states must support authors, must support media freedom, public media. i think we are now faced with a situation where member states have to implement the audiovisual services directive, the copyright directive, which ensures the promotion of quality media. and i think that's the point. i also ask for more support from stratcom to help the european union face what is massively funded elsewhere. i'm talking specifically about china and russia. please do it!
madam president, this debate is particularly timely for the uk where the issue of electoral interference is really high on the agenda in our current election. the conservative party in the uk has transformed beyond recognition over the last three years, and there are many in the uk who have huge concerns about the influence from both russia and the usa in that massive change. at the most basic level, the scale of donations from russian oligarchs or their wives is extraordinary: gbp 200 000 from one individual in the first week of this election campaign alone. those with deep pockets have always tried to influence elections, but the scale and the technology is new. the impact of misinformation has been recognised by serious research, which has shown that those who have been fed false information are significantly harder to persuade of the true facts than people with no prior knowledge. years of relative peace and security after the end of the cold war have allowed us here in europe to grow relaxed about the dangers of foreign propaganda. we need to wake up to the serious threats facing our democracies. that means publishing the russia files in the uk and getting tough with all forms of media about their responsibilities to validate the truth of what they publish.
madam president, once upon a time, we would surely have named the british parliament alongside athens as twin archetypes for democracy. but every democracy need safeguards; its sanctions need to match the power of its emerging oligarchs. if the uk safeguards once sufficed when the right honourable members in parliament were honourable and not so far right, those times seem long gone, as boris johnson’s ignominious cronies obstruct publication of the uk parliament’s intelligence and security committee (isc) report on russian interference, redact the names of those involved, bribe millionaire lobbyists with cash for access, and avert their eyes from incriminating evidence against their own team over the 2016 brexit campaign. all this should have been rectified before precipitating yet another election accompanied by profligate spending, misinformation and manipulation with the very same individuals in the driving seat. in ancient athens a pile of broken pot-shards solved such problems. empowered with these, the demos could ostracise anyone who threatened the rule of law, isolating him from political office for 10 years. modern democracy, too, needs a decent tool for this job, and it should include exclusion, since to the super-rich any fine seems just fine.
madam chairman, i am pleased that this issue is back on our agenda despite the recent narrow rejection of the initiative of the socialists and democrats to establish a special committee. with each new election in the member states, we see the scale of this problem. the last case is the upcoming elections in the uk. it is unacceptable for third party digital platforms to share unverified information without verifying the authenticity of the content, based solely on paid advertisements. the citizens clearly recognized this problem. as many as two-thirds expressed concern. however, it should be stressed that the prevention of foreign interference in electoral processes should not be limited to preventing the spread of fake news. it is necessary to work on the detection of foreign sources of funding of political parties and their impact on the content of political campaigns. so i call on my colleagues to support the establishment of a special committee to investigate foreign influence on our electoral processes. free and transparent elections are the cornerstone of the democratic process and the defence of european values. the european union institutions therefore need to provide a concrete response to this growing problem.
madam president, looking at this issue, i feel like i’ve discovered the arch-villain in a james bond film. all the plot lines seem to lead to one man – steve bannon – who has openly declared his plans to fund and orchestrate a populist nationalist movement to take over the world. this incredible plot is credible, because he’s been the driver behind cambridge analytica and breitbart news, a propaganda machine synonymous with fake news. we’ve seen allegations of dark money, dirty data and campaigns based on lies and hate, designed to discourage specific groups of people from voting. the evidence is strong that this interference influenced the outcome of the brexit referendum. steve bannon is a puppet master and his puppets include donald trump, boris johnson and nigel farage. investigations have uncovered foreign dark money pouring into their campaigns. this is not a fictional film plot: this is a strategic campaign of manipulation that threatens not only the outcome of single elections, but also our democracies, our cultures and our freedoms. it must be stopped.
madam president, today we are debating interference from other countries in our democracies and elections, a topic which is sadly very topical in my own country of the uk. we’ve all had enough of lies and misinformation, so my speech is composed of three facts and one question. fact one: on 17 october, the uk intelligence and security committee of our parliament finalised its report on allegations of russian interference in uk elections, particularly the june 2016 brexit referendum. it passed that report to downing street. it should have been published within ten days, according to the chairman of that committee. fact two: a leaked early version of that report found that russia could indeed have influenced the outcome of the referendum and also raises questions about links between boris johnson – our current prime minister, the conservative party, and russian donors. fact three: that same boris johnson has sat on that report and refused to publish it according to the normal timetable. the chairman of the committee, dominic grieve, has called that action jaw—dropping and said that boris johnson’s excuses are bogus. so my question is this: what is it that boris johnson is so desperate to hide? you don’t have to be sherlock holmes to deduce the answer. (applause)
mr president, despite knowing that there was large-scale foreign interference in the 2016 brexit referendum, the uk has failed to implement measures to protect voters from malicious influence online. experts, including the commons digital committee, have warned that the uk is vulnerable to foreign meddling – notably by vladimir putin and donald trump, who both have a keen interest in fostering brexit and weakening the eu. we urgently need to update our electoral laws and improve social media regulation. previous uk governments have outlined plans to improve transparency and clamp down on digital election interference, but nothing has happened. boris johnson has neglected the integrity of our democracy and ignored his duty to protect citizens. why? because investigating this vital issue raises uncomfortable questions about the legality of the 2016 brexit referendum. is this the reason johnson refuses to disclose the russian interference report? it is time to get rid of johnson, his brexit and his lies, and to give the british people the brighter future they deserve.
mr president, in the middle of a uk general election campaign, it is right to be vigilant to the threats posed to our democracy by foreign powers, not least as the lessons of the brexit referendum have not been learned. investigative journalism first uncovered the dark money that flowed through northern ireland into great britain in the crucial last week of that campaign, but some of the murkier details have yet to be fully exposed. and across the uk, we still don’t know the extent of the russian interference in our politics, as boris johnson refuses to release the intelligence report into russian covert actions in the uk. the way we consume information and conduct our politics in the digital age leaves us vulnerable to targeted propaganda and disinformation campaigns, including those orchestrated from overseas. social media platforms have largely failed us. just this week, sir tim berners-lee, who invented the world wide web, has called for action to tackle disinformation. but we should not ignore the old ways of distorting and disrupting democracy. in northern ireland candidates and parties have faced intimidation and threats by paramilitaries in this election, we must fight to continue to uphold the integrity of our democracy.
madam president, it is a lie that israeli settlements are illegal. disputed, yes, illegal no. israel’s future boundaries were drawn up in the 1920 san remo agreement and confirmed by the league of nations in 1922. no other internationally legally binding agreement has ever superseded that, and the west bank is part of israel in that agreement. it is never been a separate sovereign state. when the british left in 1948, war broke out between arabs and jews, and the west bank was seized by jordan. but their annexation was never recognised. so, when israel took back control of its land 19 years later in a defensive six-day war in 1967, it did not cross an international boundary. so, those who say the settlements are illegal are completely misinterpreting article 49 of the 4th geneva convention. two weeks ago, the eu passed a law forcing jewish-owned businesses in the west bank to label their goods differently to non-jews. this racist law, reminding us of an earlier periods in european history, will not lead to peace in the region. the eu should be ashamed of itself for perpetuating the myth that settlements are illegal under international law when that ruling lacks legal evidence. someone once said, ‘if you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it’. you know who that person was. and it’s time europe moves on. peace can only come if it is based on truth.
madam president, it is time for the eu to step up as the neutral peace broker in israel and palestine. that requires an unwavering commitment to international law. that is why last week’s ruling by our court of justice is so important. products from illegal israeli settlements must now be labelled as such, and now concrete steps must be taken to enforce the court’s judgment. this is the first step. going forward, the eu needs to impose a ban on all imports of settlement products into the eu. similar measures have been taken with products from crimea and northern cyprus; why not from the settlements? the un should urgently release the database of companies operating in israeli settlements that are profiting from their construction and growth. together these will send a clear message to the world. any attempts to legitimise annexation and contravene international law will have concrete repercussions. finally, i would like to ask the high representative and her successor what other concrete steps will the eu take to ensure international law remains a respected point of reference for the middle east peace process?
madam president, i must confess that i am always nervous when the subject of israel is brought up here in the european parliament, because it rarely yields anything objective and balanced. i think we should think first and foremost in terms of what is important for europe and what will benefit its citizens. we should be able to read the geopolitical map, to realize that israel is an important regional partner, perhaps the most important for the european union, especially in the security field. when we talk so often about european values, we should be able to recognize that israel, in all possible parameters, is a european country, it is a parliamentary democracy, it is a country where the rule of law rules, and it is simply a european country, even though it is not on the european continent, so we should show it fundamental solidarity. last but not least, in the face of rising anti-semitism in many european countries, any symbolic undermining of israel's position is only a way to fuel anti-semitic sentiment. so i would call for a much more balanced approach by the european union and i think we should be in solidarity with israel.
mr president, the european union cannot be an accomplice to apartheid in palestine. commercial and military relations with israeli companies and institutions involved in serious human rights violations against the palestinian people: this is the european union's complicity in the apartheid suffered by the palestinians. the european union has also refused to enforce the human rights clause in its association agreement with israel. nor is there any response to the numerous organizations calling for an end to support for crimes against the palestinian people. it is precisely european civil society, with campaigns like bds, that is standing up to israel's human rights violations. and that's why they're trying to criminalize it. from here, all our solidarity with civil society. it is time to put measures on the table: recognition of the palestinian people, an end to the occupation, an arms embargo on israel until human rights are respected, and a ban on imports from illegal settlements. play (inaudible) measures, we can not continue to look the other way.
mr president, we debate this issue only days after the israeli government has joined the venezuelan, iranian and egyptian regimes in banning a researcher for human rights watch. i really regret that and i really think israel is better than that, but we’re also seeing a growing alignment between the trump and netanyahu administrations, which increasingly damages prospects for peace. us secretary of state mike pompeo’s declaration that the west bank settlements are not, per se, inconsistent with international law is first of all wrong but also an endorsement of netanyahu’s strategy of changing the facts on the ground in a way that aims to undermine the feasibility of a two-state solution, the outlines of which have been clear for decades and which remains the only viable plan for peace. we must steadfastly defend israel’s right to exist as a state, but also recognize palestine’s right to statehood. many believe palestine has been fulfilling the montevideo criteria for statehood for many years and, against the odds, it still has moderate arab leaders on the west bank at least. i hope a new israeli government will recognize that compromise with such leaders is in israel’s best interests and the best pathway to peace and security, but we must stand ready to step up the pressure in support of that pathway.
mr president, as-salaam-alaikum. my message to the heroic palestinian people who have resisted the extermination of their culture, their nationhood and their right to exist for 70 years is this: there are millions and millions of europeans who grew up under occupation behind the iron curtain, the permanent choking hand of occupation, the never-ending nights of oppression, the daily torture and the disturbing murders. these europeans and their allies – some are right wing and some are left wing – they know the horrors of occupation too well to allow or dismiss your struggle. and to my friends in parliament: give the palestinians what you would want for yourselves: the promise that weapons made in the eu will not be used to kill your children, and a comprehensive ban on all and any settlement goods entering the eu. if the settlements are illegal, then the products are illegal, and those who profit from them are criminals. justice in words requires justice in action, so let us remember and repeat and honour the great words of nelson mandela when he said: ‘our freedom is incomplete without the freedom of the palestinians’.
mr president, as vice—chair of this parliament’s iran delegation, i’m going to focus on that country, and i speak as a supporter of the joint comprehensive plan of action, an outspoken critic of illegal us sanctions and one who would encourage, rather than undermine, moderates within the iranian regime. but all these positions become harder and harder with each infringement of international norms by iran. the current civilian protests have been met with wholly disproportionate force, and we in europe must condemn without reservation the killing of at least 100 civilian protesters and the arrest of, perhaps, 1 000 more. i remain a supporter of dialogue, so i very much welcome the announcement of a new joint commission, but we must robustly condemn atrocities when they take place. can i finish by thanking ms mogherini for her impressive, respectful and, above all, patient attendance at this parliament and for all her hard work on behalf of all of us, including the united kingdom? i do hope her successor can do likewise and won’t have to deal with us as a foreign country.
madam president, i deplore the recent deaths and human rights violations in iran and the continued imprisonment of political prisoners like nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who should be freed immediately. but the number-one policy aim in iran is to stop it building a nuclear weapon, but it is now restarting uranium enrichment. while i support the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) nuclear agreement, i think we have to brace ourselves for its failure and urgently look for a plan b. the eu is not blameless for this mess. the instrument for supporting trade exchange (instex), its plan to circumvent us sanctions, has come up short. as a result, iran is now threatening reprisals against the eu and its member states. it must be right that a coalition of member states and other global players is part of that solution, but only the active involvement of the us will help. many people in this parliament deny president trump, but if we want to keep the middle east nuclear-free, resume trade and support the human rights of iranians, we urgently need to restore friendships and influence in washington, not tehran. i’m certain that britain’s special relationship with the us can help.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i’m sorry to say but haiti could probably be described as one of the most immoral states in the world. immoral morality abounds. just look at the list: widespread corruption, an unlawful police force, no government, no parliament come next year, harassment and aggression against journalists, murders, rape, discrimination against women, lgbti people classed under haitian laws as the same as those guilty of child pornography and incest and a reason to deny citizenship, violence against elderly people and – perhaps worst of all – children unable to go to school. i think if there’s one thing we could at least try it is to put pressure on the haitian government is to try and give young people the chance to go to school, because there is no progress without school.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative, as we’ve already heard, haiti is a country almost on the brink of collapse. economic struggles have led to violent protests and shootings with dozens of deaths, at least 20 people killed at the hands of the security forces, and many more have been severely injured. the violence has led to children missing school and people struggling to access sufficient food, drinking water, medicine and fuel. the health sector is facing shortages in electricity, fuel, supplies and an inability to reach people in need of treatment. the eu needs to play a real effort to find a meaningful inclusive resolution to the current solution, especially addressing concerns around corruption. haiti is an acp partner. ensuring its sustainable development is vital if we are serious in the effort to tackle the climate change, corruption and chaos there. high representative, what leverage are you using, given that we have hundreds of millions of euros through edf to push for a political solution to alleviate the suffering of the people of haiti? and finally, i would once again like to wish you all the best for your future endeavours, and thank you very much for everything you have done.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, there is a permanent humanitarian crisis in haiti. a country that, while still not recovering from a major natural catastrophe, is already having another health crisis and a political crisis. a country that is, in fact, one of the poorest on the planet, that is dominated by poverty, inequality, insecurity and, unfortunately, corruption. there are still 38,000 people from the 2010 earthquake unaccounted for. and since september, there has been a violent crisis - a very worrying situation of violence - precisely because of the protests of society against the government and the lack of supplies. that is why i believe that, in the face of this situation of more than forty dead people - according to the united nations, including three murdered journalists who were covering precisely these riots - we must work to demand an end to the violence, to demand a political solution that involves the holding of transparent and fair elections and, of course, to ask for and support humanitarian aid in a country where 40% of the population depends on international food aid. good luck to you, chief.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, hell exists and it is in haiti. corruption, violence and poverty are now the norm for the haitian people, a country where human rights are trampled daily before our eyes. we can't just sit back and watch. slavery still exists in haiti, and thousands of children are sold as domestic servants to the wealthiest families every year. in haiti, women who are raped do not get justice and cannot even have an abortion, gender equality does not even exist before the law. in haiti, if you go out to protest too often, you don't get to go home. according to the united nations high commissioner for human rights, at least 42 people were killed and more than 80 were injured during the protests in september and october. the list is long, but i think that's enough, what we've said today, to ask ourselves a simple question: why are we allowing this? i thank you, mr president, and i greet the high representative mogherini and wish her all the best for her career.
madam president, just very briefly, i want to support the resolution concerning haiti. we have dealt with the very complex social and political situation in this extremely poor country on several occasions during the last election period. there's been a lot of tension lately, people are protesting because of the very difficult social situation they're in. there are a lot of people really below the poverty line, it's been said here, child slavery is rampant, it's a really big problem. it will be up to the new commission, the new high representative, to try to have some dialogue with this country, which would at least lead to those who demonstrate and express their rights being able to express those rights without being sanctioned. then there is a need to have a debate with the haitian government on how to improve the social situation of the poorest. we support this country economically, but we should do some reflection that she also perceives that human rights should be at least some value.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, protests in haiti calling for the resignation of president jovenel moïse have been going on since july. the uprising of the haitian people began after the cancellation of government subsidies on fuel and more thorough tax controls, conditions set by the international monetary fund to restart the country. the effects of these measures were immediate and devastating. the removal of fuel subsidies is accompanied by the difficulties arising from the us embargo against venezuela. yet this disaster was not difficult to imagine. haiti is the poorest country in the western hemisphere and in this context the cuts in subsidies have not been complemented by compensatory measures to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population. president moïse does not seem to have any intention of leaving office for the time being, nor of abandoning the presidency or the illiberal policies it is pursuing. the united states and the core group, the group of so-called friends of haiti, including the european union, still support him. colleagues, it is time to change our policy and promote a change of system to ensure fairness and justice for our haitian friends.
madam speaker, i'll start with a picture that's been circulated around the world of a haitian senator shooting into the air in front of people. these are contrast images from haiti. the contrast between absolute poverty and the world of the rich. it is important for me to condemn such actions, of course the riots and violent protests are mainly against the corrupt government and president jovenel moise. they continue precisely because of the rising prices of food and fuel. they've escalated radically this fall. haiti is also the case of a country where a journalist was killed, murdered, falls in the index of protection of journalists and freedom of their work. we need to engage with the opposition, send a clear message to the haitian government, investigate corruption and focus on basic human rights. people have nothing to eat and drink and this should be the primary concern of the haitian government. i would like to wish the high representative all the best for her future work and to thank her for her service here in the european union.
madam president. for two months, haiti has been engulfed in protests which were triggered by fuel shortages and quickly turned violent, morphing into a campaign against the president. according to un figures, at least 42 people have been killed and dozens injured during these anti-government protests. violence is fuelling further insecurity in an already fragile state racked with poverty, inequality and corruption. more than one in three haitians need urgent assistance to meet their daily food requirements, meaning that nearly 3.7 million people are going hungry. yet aid organisations are struggling to provide relief to those most in need. the eu must work with the haitian authorities to provide urgent humanitarian assistance. another deplorable act of violence that’s occurred during this unrest is violence against women in state prisons, where women are detained in the same cells as men and subject to rape. here in the european parliament we’re marking the 16 days of action to end gender-based violence. so let’s not forget these vulnerable women in one of the poorest countries in the world.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – the poorest country in the americas is now paralysed by a crisis that is political as well as social and economic. large segments of the population are protesting against the way the country is currently governed and particularly against corruption and mismanagement cases that have involved high figures in the institutions. young activists are at the forefront of the protest, but farmers and shopkeepers have also joined, and after years of economic crisis, the country is now facing a constitutional crisis too, with no government and no parliament. the protests started, as some of you have mentioned, over fuel shortages over the summer, and these are now paralysing the country. businesses, hospitals, schools, government institutions are often closed, transport throughout the country has become very complicated, including for humanitarian aid, and the country is basically at a standstill. political stances are getting more radical, the humanitarian crisis is worsening, and gang—related violence is also on the rise. we have been and constantly are following very closely the current crisis, coordinating with the countries and institutions from the core group. we also have urged the authorities to conduct effective and thorough investigations into crimes. the authorities must guarantee the right to demonstrate freely and peacefully, and violence must be avoided under all circumstances. i expressed this position on behalf of the 28 member states earlier this month. we also called on all actors to engage in a national dialogue to identify consensual solutions to the current crisis in its political, economic and humanitarian dimensions. let me also recall that the european union is also coordinating with other donors to provide urgent relief inside the country, because the humanitarian situation is dramatic. yet the current situation is clearly unsustainable. it’s not only a matter of humanitarian aid, it’s a political process that can create the conditions for the international community to support the country’s long—term development. signora presidente, mi consenta, per concludere, innanzitutto di utilizzare la mia lingua, cosa che ho fatto raramente in questo emiciclo, per ringraziare di un'ottima collaborazione che abbiamo avuto lungo questi cinque anni, all'inizio di questo mandato parlamentare, in questi ultimi mesi, e i colleghi parlamentari europei che sono stati in questi banchi nei quattro anni e mezzo precedenti. ho sempre dato estrema importanza al ruolo della diplomazia parlamentare. credo che il ruolo del parlamento europeo sia fondamentale non soltanto per la democrazia europea ma anche per il nostro lavoro per la pace, la sicurezza e una politica estera cooperativa nel mondo, soprattutto in questo mondo di oggi. vorrei sinceramente ringraziare i membri del parlamento, tutti, il presidente, i vicepresidenti, tutti i gruppi politici e in particolare le due commissioni con le quali ho avuto il piacere di lavorare più strettamente, la commissione per gli affari esteri e la commissione per lo sviluppo, che hanno sempre sostenuto in modo fondamentale il mio lavoro in questi anni. grazie mille. (applausi)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european union cannot be silent to what is going on in the current days in malta around the investigations into the assassination of the journalist daphne caruana galizia, and certainly not this parliament, who’s press room has her name. this week, two ministers and the chief of staff of prime minister muscat resigned over the recent shocking developments. all these people appeared in the investigations of daphne caruana galizia before she was killed. nevertheless, prime minister muscat has protected them all this time and defended them again and again, while attacking those who wanted to expose them. the situation in malta has consequences for the entire european project. i think this parliament needs to point out, now more than ever, to the maltese authorities that the assassination of journalists with clear political links must have clear political consequences. i have always seen this parliament raising its voice very high to claim the respect of rule of law and of the freedom of the press to several governments in europe. today, it’s time to do the same in the case of malta. let’s raise our voice together. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the s&d group has always been, is and will be on the side of the rule of law. always have. without choosing who we side with when it suits us or when it doesn't. in any case, i want to make one thing clear. the rule of law works when suspects are arrested and court proceedings are opened. that is what happened last week in malta. a suspect has been arrested and a court case has been opened. this parliament must respect judicial procedures and not interfere with them, and in any case i want to make it clear that this group is always on the side of truth and justice. others should know and understand that you can't choose when you're on the side... (protests) it bothers them. well, i'm not going to shut up. i'm not going to shut up. there are people who might be bothered that i'm clarifying something here. truth and justice are not chosen. you always have to be on the same side. and we own our words and we must be consistent. the people's party here today has made one thing clear. i hope that during the next five years i will always be on the side of the rule of law, wherever it is, in whatever country it is, whoever is in power. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would only like to make clear that it is crucial to the situation in malta that this parliament sends an urgent mission in order to fact-find what’s happening. i thank mr weber for his words. it’s overdue that the prize in malta which has been decided by the last parliament is finally installed for the freedom of journalism. and this parliament has never taken side in politics in malta but searched for the truth and justice for daphne caruana galizia. this is what this is about and nothing else. (applause)
madam president, i can be very short and i am speaking as the chair of the rule of law monitoring group, which met this morning. we are planning a visit to malta, but we will be very clear: there will not be any political interference or taking sides. we are not going to interfere in any police investigation or proceedings, but we will make sure that the european parliament keeps the pressure up so that justice is done and the truth will come to light. and in that spirit, we will decide when and how to travel to malta. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, pursuant to rule 195, i would like to move for a point of order. there is an amendment that we have tabled in conjunction with some other political groups but, with a sense of responsibility towards this house, we will be abstaining on that amendment. it is amendment 11. it speaks about a climate emergency and we’re doing this because, after a meeting yesterday, we understood that there are groups that are willing to threaten the whole cop resolution because of that amendment, and we are responsible. we have a resolution now that speaks about climate emergency. we will not endanger a resolution on cop25. we want the european parliament to go strongly united, together with the ppe and other political groups, with a strong cop25 resolution. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am formally requesting that my support and that of the european conservatives and reformists group for the resolution on the climate conference (cop25) in madrid be withdrawn because of the acceleration of the goal of climate neutrality by 2050 and the increase of the 2030 emission reduction target to 55%. in addition, the parliamentary majority wants to give the green light not only to coal energy, but also to gas and nuclear energy. such targets would be harmful to the european economy and have not been agreed with the member states. it is required by the treaties.
madam president, i do not wish to prolong the sitting, but i would like to make a proposal in the interest of our visitors. we receive many groups of visitors who, when they attend the debates, understand everything without any problem, no matter where they are located. however, at the time of voting, only the visitors in front of you understand what is happening and see the pictures. i would therefore like to propose that two panels be placed in front of you so that other visitors can also understand what is happening.
(inaudible) ...voted for this new commission, and the fact that the commission is elected and remains accountable to this parliament, is vital. we voted on the candidates put forward by the elected governments of every member state, and now we have elected them, this new commission must get to work. because beyond this hall, people are waiting to be helped: people facing the danger of climate change, people facing the uncertainty of a changing economy, people feeling insufficient power in their own lives. the commission’s job is to give everyone good grounds to look forward to the next five years with hope instead of fear. if the uk makes the mistake of brexit, giving up our voice in europe, the decisions made here will still shape the uk’s future. as a british mep, i voted in this election for the commission because i expect brexit will be stopped, and this will be the commission of all european citizens.
madam president, unfortunately the european union is suffering from a climate hysteria that is far from rational, and unfortunately this climate hysteria has been unfortunately reflected in the programme of the new european commission. i cannot agree with the objectives that the european commission has set itself in the fight against climate change, i consider them to be unrealistic, unrealisable and even harmful to many european economies. i think it's going to have an impact on the energy mix in individual countries, on their industrial structure, on employment, and it's going to be reflected in the wallets of citizens as well. that is the main reason why i could not support this european commission by voting for it.
madam president, i congratulate the new commission on their election yesterday, but i would not pretend that the process over these past few months has been perfect, because it hasn’t. but importantly, it has built in the chance for members of this house to change their minds. we voted back in july on the appointment of president-elect von der leyen. we then had several weeks to examine the detail of the commission’s proposed work programme, to scrutinise, to challenge nominees to the commission. we then voted yesterday in what you could describe as a confirmatory vote on whether we want to confirm our original decision of july or not. and i would suggest that the idea of a confirmatory vote, of giving people the chance to perhaps change their minds from decisions made previously, might be an important principle that could be extended to bigger questions elsewhere.
madam president, i abstained on this motion on grounds that very soon this will be none of britain’s business. if it were still the case that we were staying in the european union, i’d have had a lot to say about the individual merits and demerits of some of these candidates, and i’d certainly have had a lot to say about the appointments process, the concentration of executive and legislative power in the hands of 28 officials who are immune to the ballot box and invulnerable to public opinion. but happily, this is going to cease to be our problem, so i instead wish you every success and look forward, instead of being a difficult member, to being good neighbours. ¡ suerte! viel glück! bon courage!
madam president, i voted against the investiture of the von der leyen commission because i believe that it will worsen the situation of france in three essential areas. firstly, it is in favour of an organisation of immigration in europe, whereas i expect something else: a policy of resolutely combating the flood of migration. secondly, it wants to strengthen european integration, whereas the french people have put a party - the national rally - which advocates respect for national sovereignty, in the lead in the european elections. finally, it wants to continue the insane policy of global free trade which has ruined our agriculture. phil hogan's promotion is the sad symbol of that. for these three reasons, i will be determined to oppose the von der leyen commission throughout my term of office.
madam president, i voted against the new commission, because to say it was elected is a misnomer. it is not accountable to each and every voter in any of the european countries. it undermines national sovereignty and is an assault on each and every voter. but many here snidely dismiss national sovereignty as reactionary, nationalist, xenophobic and far right. what a slander as a way of de-legitimising voters. i am an internationalist and on the left. i believe real european solidarity is to respect the voters of each and every european country, and i urge my fellow democrats who are here as meps not to pretend that this place is a place of democracy but to stay true to their voters and to respect their votes – and they can have nothing to do with recalling or holding anyone here accountable. don’t let’s con them.
madam president, i voted in favour of the commission. i did it for a few very good reasons. firstly, i think the european parliament has done its part by removing the weak spots of some commissioners from the commission. those who had unresolved financial issues, conflicts of interest or had weak spots in their history. all of this was important to me, because it makes the commission credible to me. the european commission's programme is credible to me for other reasons too: it responds to the urgent challenges of our time, it does not hide the fact that climate change is happening and it wants to respond appropriately, proportionately and rationally. digitalisation a key, long-term issue and, of course, social justice, are all reasons that led me to support the commission. i ask: what would the other way be if the commission had not approved? the chaos? another six months of delay? that would be a full year out of the entire election cycle. i think we cannot afford that, which is why i supported the commission.
madam president, i voted against the new commission because i believe the appointments reinforce my view that the european union is institutionally racist. ten percent of europe’s population comes from a racial or ethnic minority, but there’s never been a black commissioner here. there’s no one of any colour in any senior management role; no black person employed by the eu has ever spoken to this parliament. this is not europe united in diversity; it’s an apartheid. here, black europeans are not segregated by the bus they travel on, they are segregated by time. during the day the eu is for white people. at night, we let the black people in to wash the floors and clean the toilets. ms von der leyen could insist her commissioners hired people of colour, as she has done for women. she could instruct the commission to change its employment practices and hire and recruit more black people. the president boasted in her speech yesterday about changing the face of the commission, but only, i believe, as long as those faces are white. the eu is institutionally racist and i won’t vote for those white slave masters.
madam president, as a british mep i am proud to be part of a sovereign nation that works alongside our partners in europe to tackle climate change. throughout europe, governments and local councils have been declaring a climate emergency, but today this parliament became the first parliament in the world to declare a climate emergency across a continent. we must take urgent action to reverse the damage done to our planet before it is too late. time is running out. it is imperative that we all reduce our carbon footprint in every aspect of our lives. from the food on our plate to the technology we use, from the exploitation of our oceans and the imports from trade outside our block, we will work together to reduce our footprint, not just in europe but also across the globe. change starts here!
madam president, i have just criticized the european commission for its climate policy, and now i must commend it for its plans for the next financial period with the european budget, particularly as regards the shift of funds from the 'eating', the direct sponsorship of the common agricultural policy or the cohesion policy to the promotion of innovation, science, research and technology. unfortunately, this has not yet been reported in the press, where everything remains the same, and i think it would be good to send a signal to the new european commission that we are counting on the commitments made by its president in her opening speech yesterday. i could not therefore support this report in this vote because it does not correspond to what i would like the next european budget to look like.
madam president, i was happy to support this resolution. in the last election, we had many discussions about the situation in bolivia, about where president morales is taking this country, and we expressed our concern about the situation in this country. at a time when there were great doubts about the regularity of the elections in which president morales was to be re-elected, the fact that this dictator finally fled the country and that at this moment both chambers of the bolivian parliament are preparing new, free presidential elections should satisfy and fill us with joy. on the other hand, we must do everything we can to ensure that these elections are conducted properly and that the situation in this very impoverished country begins to improve.
madam president, i don’t believe the resolution that we passed today to declare a climate emergency would have happened had it not been for the campaigning and the pressure of those thousands of young people in all parts of the world – those young people walking out of their schools and colleges as they did in leicester a few weeks ago, when i was pleased to join them. but they’ve done that not to demand of us that we pass resolutions or adopt encouraging words. they’ve done that to demand real, meaningful, decisive action, and that’s what we must now deliver. that’s what the new commission must deliver, that’s what our national governments must deliver, and it’s what we as a parliament must ensure is delivered. because if one thing is clear from those young people, from greta thunberg when she spoke to this parliament a few months ago, words are not enough. they want action and they are right to demand that action of us.
madam president, i voted against the climate and environmental emergency motion because i’m really concerned at the hyped-up anti-science scaremongering that’s terrifying young people, telling them that billions will die, that there’ll be a collapse of civilisation, a lot of the rhetoric coming out of extinction rebellion and echoed in the debate over the last few days. i think that the fact that we voted against an amendment today that said that we should be committed to bringing environmental subject back to rational discussion, and we rejected it, admits that actually we’re having an irrational discussion. this becomes advocacy and propaganda, rather than science. there’s no scientific evidence from the ipcc or anyone else about the extinction of humanity, and we should be very careful about claiming that anthropological climate changes cause floods and droughts, which we have been doing quite casually during the last few days. in fact, the ipcc says that such issues are probably caused by socio-economic conditions, and we forget socio-economic conditions too much and demand, in fact, as this parliament has done, decarbonisation, which will lead to eco-austerity, massive price hikes in energy, and ordinary working people paying the cost for scaremongering and... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i’d just like to reiterate what my colleague said. i also rejected the cop24 resolution. i may not be an economics professor, but i do profess to understand economics. they also call it the dismal science, but when it comes to the climate emergency, i would describe the apocalyptic forecasts as nothing but science fiction. the adoption of these policies today, and the aim of carbon neutrality by 2050, is nothing short of reckless and the most extreme example of economic illiteracy i’ve ever seen. the fact that amendments were rejected demanding a full impact assessment shows rank indifference to the cost and practicality of aggressive climate policies. one thing i can say for certain is that the impact of net zero makes the consequence of any form of brexit look puny by comparison. dieter helm, professor of energy and economics at oxford university, was right when he said: ‘we should be honest that it is a huge industrial undertaking, and it will have significant cost. these are enormous industrial activities, there is nothing in history that looks like this outside of wartime.’ in my own country, our own chancellor has put that cost at over one trillion pounds, or almost 2% of gdp per annum. it is an insane policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i really like being european here today. this is a good day: an ambitious action programme by the european commission in parallel with the madrid climate conference. that's good, and it's also right not to be put in the crosshairs. strong climate action is the key to jobs, competitiveness and innovation, not the other way around. we can't let the constant bickering here slow us down. i'm more concerned about whether this agenda is social enough. it's true that we need strong energy taxes, that we need to reform carbon trading. but given the great inequalities in our societies, the proceeds of these taxes must be paid back per capita to the citizens, otherwise we will not win the support of the people. and such a strong social dimension is missing from your proposals. we are also supporting your proposals in a constructive way. we want more ambition in trade policy, in agricultural policy, in chemical policy. but we're on the right track together. let's get down to business.
president, vice-president timmermans, colleagues, it is now clear that further steps are urgently needed to achieve a sustainable future. but what we need today most of all are concrete, workable and affordable solutions. the main source of these will have to be innovation. you are indeed proposing an integrated plan that takes account of climate, economy, entrepreneurship and innovation, which is very positive. your emphasis on the circular economy is also very commendable. what is lacking, however, is a concrete, clear and sound financial basis. by approaching it that way, you run a double risk. on the one hand, you risk not achieving your objectives in the end. that certainly increases the risk. on the other hand, you also run the risk of losing the confidence of the citizens along the way. finally, i would like to point out that europe accounts for only 10% of co2 emissions. it's a very unheard of thing around here. you want to be a geopolitical commission. then please take that on that geopolitical mission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we can be proud: today we have an ambitious roadmap for a climate-neutral europe by 2050. but we cannot, for all our ambition, change abruptly the objectives we have already agreed upon. planning security is the a and o for the continued commitment of all sectors and the technological leadership in the world. in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it is particularly important to me that not only reduction but also storage potential is used to the maximum. i therefore welcome the fact that the new european forestry strategy should include incentives for sustainable and active forest and land management alongside a reforestation strategy. agriculture is less part of the problem than a substantial part of the solution. the farm-to-fork strategy is also considered positive. but we must have a precise impact assessment so that we do not make the wrong decisions, for example, on the use of pesticides.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with my colleagues in the bureau of the socialist and democratic group, i am returning today from madrid, where the international climate conference, cop25, is taking place. can we say we have eyes on him? that europe has its eyes on you? they look to the green new deal not only the new generations, the ones who are marching in the streets all over the world because they are demanding a cleaner planet and more attention for our planet, but also the economic world looks to the green new deal as a lever for the competitiveness of our industrial system. then we must get down to business. we know the determination of vice-president timmermans, the determination he has put into working on the circular economy and the fight against plastic pollution, and so we are very confident. i would like to make two quick points before i get to the facts. one is resources. if we want industries that pollute less, cleaner transportation in our cities, buildings with solar panels and products that are recyclable, reusable and repairable, we need a lot of investment. without going into detail, this means a multiannual financial plan that meets the challenge... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, this green deal can be the start for a whole new economy in europe. rightly handled, and if we are able to manage it working together, we can create new jobs, we will create new industry, new technology, it will create the start of a new era – the green era, where we’re moving away from the fossil-based economy to the green economy. that is why i’m a bit concerned that still lacking in the documents i’ve seen so far is the whole part on the bioeconomy, which provides us with a huge opportunity to move away from chemicals and fossil-based materials towards the green-based materials. that is a huge opportunity, creating jobs all across the european union. this might also help us to get a new boom in the european economy. some say that we have to decrease our economy. this proposal will actually increase the economy with new jobs and new industries. rightly handled, we will take the lead globally to show that a modern, industrialised economy is possible to do in accordance with the biological and physical laws that nature has given us.
(inaudible) by electing a record number of green meps. across the world we are mobilising in our millions to protect our planet, led often by young people themselves, and as a result, the european commission is following our lead and now talking the green talk. it is down to us to make sure that their green deal walks the green walk, because their green deal is anything but new. but it’s not too late. commissioner timmermans, you have the opportunity before you to tackle head on the three crises facing europe: the crisis of inequality, the democratic crisis and the climate crisis. a genuine green new deal rises to these challenges. it engages with unions, bringing everyone with us on this exciting journey through citizen-led assemblies and, crucially, raises the standard of living and creates new jobs. we have just 10 years to curb the worst effects of the climate crisis. this green deal must not be yet another greenwash. it must deliver a positive reality for all european citizens.
madam president, the eu’s climate policies have failed. they have resulted in energy prices substantially higher than america, where energy costs are 80% lower than europe. it’s no wonder america is having an industrial renaissance at europe’s expense. the renewable energy directive has led to perverse incentives and environmental damage caused by expensive wind farms that kill migratory birds and bats and harm our precious marine resources. they have created a crony capitalist subsidy-seeking climate industrial complex that has now a vast lobbying base here in brussels. biomass is the most egregious renewable that illustrates the idiocy and hypocrisy. drax, for example, generates electricity by burning wood chips imported from virgin forests in louisiana and shipped to the uk. for this they receive a subsidy of 850 million from the british taxpayer. it’s a blatant transfer of wealth from the poor to the rich. the commission’s new green deal will result in massive de-industrialisation. the destruction of nature, let alone the destruction of economies of europe, is on your hands.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, these measures were urgently needed, because online vat fraud is currently costing the eu 5 billion euros a year. online shopping is on the rise; this is something that will get even bigger and that we need to address. we want to highlight the cooperation between tax administrations. this is really important when we have an internal market like the eu with many cross-border transactions. tax administrations need to be properly staffed to be able to fight tax evasion, and unfortunately this is not always the case. this reform is part of a series of vat reforms to improve our vat rules in the european union. but one very important issue that is not covered by this reform, but which the eu needs to look into urgently, is the exemption of vat for the aviation sector. it is not coherent to exempt the aviation sector from vat when other sectors are subject to it, especially when the commission presents a green deal and needs to make all its legislation aligned with the commitments taken during the cop21 in paris.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr gentiloni, we welcome you to the european parliament, since this is your first time here, but since we are talking about a large scale tax fraud and tax evasion, what the european parliament is asking the commission to do is to speed up the effectiveness of curbing this widespread tax fraud. the figures are alarming, very large, 137 billion a year for the european union, as you calculate in the commission. this tax fraud is being carried on the backs of the conscientious and honest taxpayers, it is leading to cuts in the welfare state and it is also violating fair competition between businesses because it favours the fraudsters and punishes the conscientious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it needs more and better europe, and to do that, it needs laws and regulations and money. i also want to cauterize the absence of the council. the commission is asking for things, the council is not present, and moreover the finnish presidency in its recent proposal for the new multiannual budget proposes a cut in the budget for the cooperation programme to combat tax fraud of 40% compared to what parliament is proposing and 20% compared to what we had in the previous budgetary framework. we are not only talking about the future, we are also talking about the future.
madam president, any decision about vat will affect any free trade agreement agreed between the eu and the uk. on thursday, the people of the uk voted resoundingly for brexit and they voted overwhelmingly in favour of a canada-style free trade agreement with the eu. they also voted emphatically against the customs union, against staying in the single market and against the european court of justice having any jurisdiction in the uk. everybody agreed that this election was a brexit election, so the will of the people has been heard for the second time, may i say, on the issue of brexit. and the people have yet again told us that they knew what they voted for in 2016. this general election has proven that, when given the choice, the british people choose free trade and cooperation and not a political super-state. will the remaining eu citizens ever be given this choice or will they drift further and further into the federal states of europe? the citizens of europe should be given the choice and if they choose, like the brits, we should roll back federalism and start co-operating again like nation states. it is called democracy. it might seem strange to many of you, but not everyone subscribes to a centralised monolithic form of politics. some of us actually believe in democracy. to quote rabbi sacks, ‘every one of us counts, every one of us has a voice’. you lose that, you lose everything, because then it becomes a game for the rich and powerful. (applause)
mr president, this may be my last opportunity to speak here on behalf of the north-west of england, and i want to say thank you to the eu for standing up for us when no one else did. you provided a safety net for us when our government didn’t. you gave us power and freedom to shape our own lives. you connected us to the world and expanded our horizons. you invested in us, giving us trams, buses and trains, doctors and nurses, culture, arts and peace. you pushed for cleaner air. you gave us tougher carbon targets to try and protect us from dangerous climate change. you stand up for us on the global stage. and most critically of all, when the north-west was starved of opportunity you believed in us. we are grateful. we know the good that you do. this is not the end. the north-west of england is still best served by living in an open, tolerant country, working with our neighbours and the eu, and it breaks my heart that we’re walking away from all of this.
mr president, the repeated wishes of the european council do not stop turkey's aggression and violations of the sovereign rights of neighbouring states, as the arbitrary turkey-libya pact shows. on the contrary, the ongoing bargaining for refugees, the sale of arms by germany and other states to turkey, the assurances about a strategic partner of the european union, all this is undermining it. given the attitude of the united states, nato and the un in the role of 'pontius pilate', the complacency cultivated by the new democracy government and syriza, and even more so the euphoric government climate, is unrealistic and dangerous. the euro-atlantic approaches to co-management in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean will sharpen the contradictions and further complicate the situation. the interests of the people are opposed to those of the groups. the answer is to intensify the popular struggle against foreign bases, bourgeois classes and imperialist associations, so that the peoples can live in peace with their own power, with respect for sovereign rights.
mr president, allow me to make a brief review of the european green deal and its role in shaping a different europe. i will continue in croatian. zeleni plan bit će ključan za budućnost europe i svijeta. svjedoci smo velikih promjena u svijetu. požari, razine mora i oceana rastu iz godine u godinu te prijete brojnim otocima i gradovima. prošlog je mjeseca u splitu, drugom najvećem gradu u hrvatskoj, izmjerena najviša razina mora od 1955. hrvatska se suočila u dvije godine s jednim od najvećih požara u povijesti, a poplave su u 60 sekundi odnosile domove i ulice pred našim očima. ovome sam i ja svjedočila. borba protiv klimatskih promjena pokrenuta je na jednom od 1244 hrvatska otoka, otoku zlarinu. više neće koristiti jednokratnu plastiku te su uveli takvo pravilo čak i prije europske komisije i odluke o njezinoj zabrani. zeleni plan prilika je za stvaranje novih radnih mjesta, poboljšanje kvalitete života i gospodarski rast. zaključit ću s riječima ban ki-moona: „posljednja smo generacija koja može poduzeti korake kako bi se izbjegao najgori utjecaj klimatskih promjena. buduće generacije neće nam oprostiti ako ne uspijemo održati svoje moralne i povijesne odgovornosti.”
mr president, last week the first euro-latin american parliamentary assembly we held during this mandate was held in panama city, panama, and i had the good fortune and privilege of being able to co-chair it. during this very important meeting, but especially relevant now that the region is suffering from serious turbulence, we europeans wanted to send a clear message of support for bilateral relations, of a framework, already established, of a strategic partnership that we want to continue and work on during the next five years, and with recipes for the problems the region is experiencing. what are the recipes? institutionality and the fight against inequality. the need to have strong institutions that digest the demands of citizens, while making social cohesion the cement for our democracy. at the same time, we members from both regions are sending a clear message: we want the eu-celac summits to return and we want the first-level summits between the prime ministers and presidents of both regions to return.
mr president, commissioner, we have had to come to this house many times to denounce the abusive and discriminatory attitude and practices of a low-cost airline, ryanair. this time it has occurred as a consequence of preventing a young woman, belén hueso valenciana like me, who is prevented by a degenerative disease and who needs to move in an electric chair because her arms prevent her from moving the manual chair. but the ryanair company has considered that she had no right to fly, that she had no right to go with her wheelchair and has left it on the ground. the wheelchair is your arms and legs and without them you cannot exercise the right of mobility that protects you. so i wonder how much more has to happen, how much more has to be done by ryanair in breach of european labour law, how it is using its workers and how much more has to be done to denigrate its passengers for this commission to take action. i beg you, inspector, please take interest. let this be the last case.
mr president, unlike the labour and liberal democrat parties, the eu should not hide its head in the sand about the british general election. this is not the result of stupid british voters or the media or fascist racists or climate deniers. it’s not because of vladimir putin or donald trump or little green men from mars. it’s because at every step the eu has chosen to give less when it could have offered more. instead of being generous to david cameron, theresa may or margaret thatcher, john major, or even tony blair, it has chosen to make life difficult, and the result is that the fifth largest economy on the planet, a permanent member of the un security council, a founding member of the council of europe, is leaving. german, french and scandinavian taxpayers will now have to pay more. many eu members will get much less. european influence in the world will decline. mr johnson looks forward to negotiating a fantastic deal with the eu, but the eu again wants to offer less, restricting trade and self-determination. please learn the lessons of brexit. our nations and citizens have always achieved most when we’ve embraced a free-market free-trading culture. so be generous, do a fantastic deal, support my constituents’ democratic wishes in the east midlands, and in return the uk will support our european friends to be greener, safer, richer and happier.
that concludes this item.
the debate on the commission statement on the rule of law in malta following the recent revelations about the murder of daphne caruana galizia (2019/2954 ((rsp)) follows. i remind everyone that it is possible to apply for the cards for the 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' procedures either through the traditional registration or through the electronic system. as is usual, i did not consider the blue card in the first round of group interventions, but the blue card procedure is open for subsequent interventions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to thank you for putting the situation of the rule of law in malta on today’s agenda. it is essential that all eu institutions contribute, within their respective roles, to upholding the rule of law in the eu. in this regard, the recent visit of parliament’s delegation to malta and today’s debate are of great importance. as president von der leyen made clear, she is concerned by recent developments in malta. the commission has been following the developments in malta very closely. the commission condemns the assassination of the journalist daphne caruana galizia. her murder was an attack on the free media and is of grave concern to europe as a whole. media freedom is the foundation of our free and democratic society. journalists must feel safe to work in europe. if not, democracy as we know it will be under threat. it is not the commission’s role to comment on ongoing national investigations, but we have said very clearly, many times, that we expect a thorough and independent investigation, free from any political interference. i repeated this message directly to the maltese ministers i spoke to recently. europol is in malta and has supported the investigations in malta as a top-priority case, with experts on the spot and from europol headquarters. the support activities are ongoing and will continue. it is crucial that all those responsible are brought to justice as soon as possible. the people of malta – and first and foremost, the family of daphne caruana galizia – demand truth and justice, and we stand with them. i also made this very clear during my visit to malta in june 2018. our role – the role of the commission – is to address more structural and systemic issues, in particular in the area of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and money laundering, and we have done just that. the commission has already been clear on the issue. there are a number of structural reforms that malta is undertaking or needs to undertake. this was clearly stated in the european semester country-specific recommendations, which were adopted by the council on 9 july 2019. the commission also brought infringement procedures regarding the incomplete transposition of the anti-money laundering directive and adopted an opinion on measures to be taken by the anti-money laundering supervisor following the adoption of a finding of breach of union law by the european banking authority. and we are not the only ones on whose advice malta can rely. in its opinion of december 2018, the venice commission and, in its evaluation report on malta in april 2019, the group of states against corruption of the council of europe also raised a number of concerns in line with those of the commission. the commission is in regular contact with the maltese authorities and will continue working with the authorities to accelerate these reforms. i will, in particular, highlight the following priorities for urgent action. one of the top priorities for malta is to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, in particular the safeguards for judicial appointments and dismissals, and to establish a separate and fully-independent prosecution service. there is also a need to strengthen efforts to detect and prosecute corruption and the enforcement of the anti-money laundering framework. i am aware that the maltese authorities have, on several occasions, expressed their intention to proceed with the necessary reforms in the areas of concern i have mentioned, but there is still a lack of significant progress. the latest developments show that no further time should be lost. the commission has underlined that any reform must comply with eu law and european standards relating to the rule of law. we have strongly encouraged malta to properly consult the venice commission. as regards the prosecution services, malta adopted the state advocate act in july 2019 and appointed its first state advocate. however, concerns remain as regards, among others, the lack of checks and balances in the appointment procedure of the attorney general, which, in practice, is still under the power of the prime minister. the commission expects the maltese authorities to implement in full the recommendations of the venice commission and to follow up on the findings and recommendations of the european commission. we are in contact with the authorities. commissioner reynders and i both talked with justice minister bonnici last week, and we will continue to insist on the need to accelerate the reforms. just yesterday, commissioner reynders sent a letter to the maltese authorities outlining the concerns and need for speedier reforming. let me emphasise that the rule-of-law issues are european issues. the eu is built on mutual trust among its members, and each european citizen deserves justice. this is why we will continue to closely follow the situation. we stand ready to work with the maltese authorities on all these aspects and to provide support where necessary. more generally, we will soon put in place a new rule-of-law mechanism covering all member states, including malta, to improve prevention, dialogue and monitoring. this will cover judicial independence, as well as anti-corruption and aspects of media pluralism relevant to the rule of law. honourable members, i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to take measures as necessary.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, daphne caruana believed that there was no place for injustice, abuse of power and impunity in malta. she believed that no one was above the law, not an ordinary citizen, not the wealthiest and the powerful, not even the prime minister. she fought until the end for what she believed was right. those who planned her assassination may have silenced her voice, but they inspired thousands of people to speak out, and thousands can’t be silenced. something is wrong when those who promised to serve the people use the institutions against the people. something is wrong when a democratic government is under suspicion of covering up the assassination of a journalist. something is wrong when the freedom of expression is not freedom anymore, but a deadly risk. the union cannot afford a country in economic ruin. how can we afford a government in moral ruin? from here i call on you directly, prime minister muscat: the eyes of all journalists across europe are on you. i call on you directly: every day that you remain in office is a shame for democracy and an offence to the memory of daphne caruana. i call on you directly: every day you are in power is a slap in the face of thousands of maltese people asking for justice and truth. prime minister muscat, if your office – the office of the prime minister – has been involved in a murder, what else do we still not know? you must step down, prime minister muscat. this is not about you anymore: it’s about malta. in this dark moment of the history of malta, the european parliament and the epp stand together with the maltese people. you are not alone. truth will be revealed. justice will be done.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in malta, the investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia, who was murdered because of her investigation, is still ongoing. this murder has shocked us all deeply and there can be no doubt that the perpetrators and the accomplices must be prosecuted in a strict manner. the commission is also concerned about corruption and the state of the rule of law as a whole. the venice commission's opinion, in particular, made it clear that the constitution, laws and procedures for appointing public officials in malta since independence need to be revised to ensure the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. a difficult task in a country of about half a million people, where close ties between officials are almost inevitable. the developments of recent years have created a deep distrust among some sections of the population. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the investigation and to provide the necessary information to the public. however, there are some initial successes: the perpetrators have been arrested, a suspected intermediary and the man behind the murder, or at least one of the men behind the murder, have been identified. the assistance of the maltese authorities by europol, the fbi and the dutch authorities was and is welcome and helpful. the reform of the constitution and the judicial system is also now beginning to make positive progress, involving the government, the opposition and the civilian population, and accompanied where possible not only by the venice commission but also, of course, by our european commission. what's next? the investigation into the murder and in particular the connection with corruption, sale of citizenship is far from complete and must continue intensively. because malta is currently seen by many as a symbol of corruption, and it should be our collective responsibility to change that, which should not be happening in the middle of europe. the investigation must continue, objectively in tone, consistently in action and always in compliance with all the rules and rights of the rule of law. in addition to the ongoing investigations and proceedings in malta, we should also use the experience to critically examine the sale of citizenship in other member states in a preventive manner. of course, we need to finally get the go-ahead for the eu-wide rule of law mechanism for all states and finally, last sentence: re-strengthening trust in democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that must be our common goal.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner. we are here today not just to condemn a murder, but to discuss the response of the eu institutions. and in that context i note that once again the council is absent, and that is significant – they’re not taking responsibility for any of this. we visited malta two weeks ago and what we saw has not reassured us; it has basically fanned our concerns. i’m also deeply concerned about the lack of urgency that i sense in the council in particular, and to a lesser degree in the commission. i welcome that this commission is at least taking steps – in contrast to the previous commission that was completely silent – but we have to realise that we are dealing here with hard-nosed criminals who are literally ready to kill. they’re not going to be terribly impressed by a bureaucratic response, or by the venice commission, or by infringement procedures. they are criminals: that’s what we’re dealing with. and what is more worrying are the connections between those criminals and politics, all the way up to the office of the prime minister. that is what we are talking about and this is part of the fabric that is the european union. now the question is, at the end of this will we be able to look ourselves in the eye? will we be able to look into the eyes of the family of daphne caruana galizia and say that we have done everything in our power – everything? yes, ms sippel, within the limits of the rule of law, but the presumption of innocence should never become the pretence of innocence. first of all there is the immediate term, and that is to safeguard the integrity of the murder investigation. i note here that, although it is not our task to call for the resignation of the prime minister – that is the duty of the maltese parliament and it should not be absolved of its responsibility – i do think that we should point out here that his continued presence in the office of prime minister is cause for grave concern, because if there is a risk – real or perceived – of meddling with the investigation, basically we are eroding trust in the investigation, trust in the authorities and trust in the rule of law. therefore, i would like to really urge the european commission to immediately start the dialogue in the framework of the rule of law, and i’m glad that the commission sent a letter yesterday. the council should be deeply ashamed of itself – the government leaders who are sitting at the table with the prime minister of malta refusing to even discuss what is going on. it is deeply shameful. they should take responsibility for the integrity of the european union. of course, in the longer term, there is the rule of law reforms, the constitutional reforms, banning corruption, money laundering, ending the sale of passports and all the rest of it, but, in conclusion, we have to recognise that this is not a technocratic issue, nor is it just a legal issue: this is an issue of taking political responsibility for the health of the democratic rule of law in the european union as a whole, because if we don’t – and don’t now – this disease will spread. so let’s act now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we were in malta with a group of members of parliament two weeks ago and what we saw was progress in the murder investigation, but at the same time an alarming stagnation in the investigation and prosecution of money laundering, corruption, all the way up to the highest levels. we cannot afford a culture of impasse in the prosecution of corruption and money laundering within the european union. the weakest link in the union is always our common problem. it is therefore essential that the european commission now uses all the means of the rule of law to change this situation, which we see not only but in particular in malta. i warn you against one thing: we should not be blinded by the arrests and the progress in the caruana galizia murder case. what we see in malta is a long list of high-level corruption allegations, all the way up to the office of the president, in the area of corruption and money laundering. we see no consistent investigation, let alone any arrest or conviction. the commission is therefore now called upon to put the measures we have in place legally into effect: the european union is a community of law and must itself abide by the law when circumstances in the member states change. but we can do much more than the old commission did. the old commission basically laid hands on the ground and did little, despite two important resolutions of the european parliament. what is preventing you from initiating article 43 infringement proceedings against all the countries selling passports for refusing to cooperate in good faith with the member states? what is preventing you from ensuring that, in a member state like malta, where public procurement systems are regularly used for corruption, infringement proceedings are brought in europe for breach of the procurement rules? what is preventing you from ensuring that the planning law in malta, which is also destroying the environment, is finally tackled in the area of corruption? what is preventing you from initiating infringement proceedings in the field of anti-money laundering policy, not only on specific issues but also on the systematic failure to apply the law? so we have a long list of possible infringement procedures, including in the area of the violation of the separation of powers, where the current maltese government is not seriously implementing the recommendations of the venice commission. so initiate infringement proceedings and ensure that the first steps are taken in the rule of law process, which systematically addresses the rule of law issues in malta. so it is up to you, the european commission, to help change things in malta and elsewhere.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, a terrible crime has been committed in malta, and the responsible for the crime must be brought to justice and the political responsible must also resign. so mr muscat, with his chief of staff being allegedly involved in the crime, must go right now, because we are afraid he’s going to put obstacles in the investigation up to the moment when he wants to leave in january. for once, we agree with the epp that mr muscat must go, but i hope, dear colleagues, that you will display the same straight courage and you will be as adamant as that when we will speak about mr orbán and the violations of rule of law, not only about malta anyway. because in malta, a crime has been committed, but this is not the only place that crimes are committed. it is not the only place that there is corruption. it is not the only place there is a fiscal paradise. no, please let me finish. i hope you will display the same straight and adamant character when we will talk about violations of the rule of law in hungary and other countries where governments of yours are in place. so, there is a problem in different countries. malta is not the only fiscal paradise in the european union; there are a lot of them. it is not the only country that is giving golden visas and golden passports. no, there are other countries. there are other countries that, at the same time, are denying the refugees and immigrants visas while the rich people from everywhere can have a visa and a passport. that’s the same. that’s against the values of the european union. malta is the symptom, not the cause. something is rotten in the kingdom of the european union, and we have to correct it.
mr president, in malta you may well be right to say that the independence of the judiciary needs to be protected. you may well be right that the outgoing prime minister should in fact be outgoing right now, rather than next year. our hearts should, must, and do go out to the family of daphne galizia, and maltese internal democratic processes need to stop governments from covering up. but be careful. history teaches us that whenever the european union sits in judgment over its member states, it almost invariably makes things worse. just in the last few years the eu has messed up its response to catalonia, poland, hungary, and of course my own country, the united kingdom. funny isn’t it? when a member state shows self-determination, whether rightly or wrongly, the eu applies pressure and interference. when an eu27 interferes in an eu1, it rarely ends well. merry christmas!
madam president, daphne caruana galizia had a family and friends who mourn her and who must feel a pain that no one should ever have to experience. some may say that this murder, in which it is alleged there was state collusion, is a matter for malta only. they are wrong. the rule of law is vital for the freedom of every person. a threat to freedom in one place is a threat to freedom in every place. no country is immune to corruption, whether financial, violent or interference in criminal investigations. daphne caruana galizia was investigating money laundering, tax evasion and other evils. her murder was barbaric and futile because others will surely take up the challenge of exposing wrongdoing and there should be eu law to protect journalism. it is clear that the mission from the european parliament has taken the quest for truth forward. this should not be the last time the parliament take such action. the eu is a set of promises, including a promise to the people of europe that the rule of law will be upheld. it does not matter which member state. it does not matter which political family politicians may come from. the only things that matter are truth and impartial justice.
madam president, firstly might i congratulate our parliamentary delegation to malta for ensuring that the corruption, scheming and impunity in that country is held under a spotlight. these things that undermine our democracies and the legitimacy of our political systems flourish in darkness. all involved have done well to shine a light on malta. parliament has done well to force the council and the commission to take note, but we must ensure that the council and the commission take firm action to guarantee the integrity of malta and of all our democracies. as a former journalist myself, when i look at the situation for independent journalism across member states, i shiver. daphne caruana galizia is murdered, the maltese government has questions to answer and the s&d conveniently forget their voices. the epp ignores and tacitly complies in the silencing of the hungarian press and earlier this year in my own country, lyra mckee, a young lgbt journalist, was murdered in northern ireland. these are just a few examples of the situation across the continent. colleagues, i urge all of you to apply the utmost passion in holding the maltese government to account, but do not stop there. ensure that no journalist, no political or civil society activist dies in vain. i urge all of you to forget political convenience, forget the difficulties of taking action against a member state and deliver strong, efficient legislation that delivers for all european citizens.
madam president, the new york times article brings shame on us all. the sale of state land to the cronies of european leaders with patchy records on the rule of law is a stain on our reputation, and it amounts to theft from small farmers and rural communities. but the common agricultural policy (cap) itself corrupts our aims. we’re in the middle of cap reforms which reduce the need for compliance checking when we can’t even adequately police corruption. what on earth makes us think that self-policing compliance is going to work? 80% of the cap budget currently ends up in the hands of 20% of the eu’s farmers. it doesn’t deliver what society wants. the current reform is mere tinkering. we must move to a system with payments linked to the delivery of public goods. the cap is the lifeblood of european farming, and the huge and continuing reduction in agricultural spending is no accident. the cap no longer commands credibility.
mr president, under the european disability strategy, many actions have been taken to promote equality for people with disabilities, but not enough was achieved. what stands out with the 5 million eu citizens with autism is their lack of opportunity for education and employment. people with autism face many challenges, starting with a lack of family and community support. many end up in institutions. they face high levels of school exclusion and university dropout. less than 10% of people with autism are in employment, mostly in low-paid jobs – far lower than for other disabilities. we must combat this inequality stigma and prejudice. any future strategy must ensure support in our communities and help for families to raise children with autism at home. sadly, my country will not be part of the next eu disability strategy. i hope that any strategy that my country adopts will at least match that of the eu.
madam president, 2019 is coming to an end, another year of record wildfires, floods, droughts and livelihoods destroyed under our watch. another year of discussions on measures to stop climate change. yet the cop25 failed to deliver on international trading rules. but we also failed to deliver on adaptation, on loss and damage, on reaching agreements to reduce vulnerability and increase resilience against the future natural disasters that the world will face. discussing the outcomes of the cop25, let’s not lose focus on what’s at stake here. let’s not forget who will suffer at the hands of climate change. according to the 2019 climate change performance index, there is today no country on earth that is heading towards the 1.5° target. we as brits are devastated that we will not be able to play our full part in driving forward stricter green targets within the european union, as we will no longer sit at the table. during the cop25, the gap between the reality of our climate emergency and the pace of negotiations has been clear. the time for talking is over. i urge you now, as members of the european parliament and union, to be a strong and ambitious voice in all future negotiations.
madam president, mr vice-president, both the commission's documents and parliament's position call for all measures to be taken on the basis of impact studies. i would like the inclusion of shipping in the ets, the 75% rate of transfers from road to river and rail, as you have proposed, and the 40% to 50% transition in 2030, to be based on sound impact studies. also, there should be coordination between you and all the directorates-general to take these measures, do something to have global agreements, in particular to urge corsia for aviation and try something for maritime transport. i would like to ask you, is the investment plan that you propose in your document based on new money or on the transfer of other budget lines?
madam president, was the madrid conference really for nothing? we have heard a lot of disappointment here because the desired success was not achieved. but i still think the conference is worthwhile. sometimes it seems to those who have children that they cannot hear what we say, yet somehow, somewhere, that speech is also reflected in their behavior. i am so convinced that the european union must not give up, but must continue on its path, implement the green deal and prove that these measures are feasible to make climate action a reality. the countries that pollute the most are also the ones with the greatest problems, and the situation will force them to take urgent action, perhaps too late. europe must set an example.
madam president, it’s a tragedy that 30 governments failed to reach an agreement on carbon markets at cop 25. it’s a tragedy for small island developing states, for indigenous people, for young people. it’s a tragedy for the natural world. yet there is consensus that we need an energy transition, as well as nature-based solutions with a focus on oceans and forests, to balance our global climate. cop25 was a historic opportunity for collective action on the key issue of our time. the climate emergency will not go away: it will become more lethal. and whilst i welcome the green deal proposed by the commission, i know that if we really want to address the twin crises of climate change and poverty, we must be honest about the failure of neoliberal austerity policies. the green new deal proposed by diem25 is a far more holistic and realistic plan, which recognises the links between the climate emergency, poverty and migration. millions of young people all over the world are fighting for our planet. they’re declaring we have one home, we share it and we must protect it.
madam president, as a british green i have experienced two significant disappointments in the last few days: first of all, the result of the british general election and, secondly, the failure of cop25 to make sufficient progress. that is an especially bitter disappointment because of the unprecedented green wave of protests that we’ve seen over the last year calling for unity around the science, and those citizens are disappointed. as mr timmermans said, our task is now more urgent than ever and we in europe have a particular historic responsibility. i am actually tired of hearing excuses from other members of this house about the responsibilities of china and so forth. we owe a carbon debt to low-income countries, in particular, for the loss and damage caused by climate change. we need to put our own house in order; we cannot keep kicking that can down the road. now my country, the uk, is hosting cop26 next year and i have a message to boris johnson, our new prime minister: ‘the world is watching. will you sell out climate change with a race to the bottom trade deal with trump or will you step up?’ the world is watching, not waiting. we will continue to mobilise until action matches the urgency of the climate crisis.
president. - mr president, this is a list of all the vessels that have left midia for the middle east and north africa this year. it is about 200 ships, or millions of animals. ships like the al shuwaikh, which last summer transported over 70 000 animals to the middle east in temperatures of up to 46 degrees. ships like the queen hind, which recently capsized in the black sea, killing 14 000 sheep. when will the infringement procedure be opened against romania? because these are not incidents. every day in europe animals are transported by ship, lorry and airplane. these animals are mistreated and crammed into small spaces and often succumb to the extreme temperatures. it is unacceptable that european rules have been violated for years. the european parliament should set up a committee of inquiry as soon as possible to investigate the failure of legislation and enforcement. finally, i believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, i very much associate myself with many of the remarks that have gone before me, but i would like to ask a more fundamental question – not so much what the measures should be to give a greater guarantee of animal welfare during live transport, but why is it necessary to have live exports at all? one of the big benefits of brexit will be that we will no longer be tied in the uk to the single market rules which actually prevent individual states from banning live exports. following an incident in the english port of ramsgate in which 40 sheep died, the local council did impose a ban, and that was ruled unlawful under eu law. defra in the uk has now announced that it is considering a ban, and so i say that on 31 january all the animals in the uk will be cheering.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, while the heads of state and government were meeting in brussels last week, the cop 25 in madrid was stalling. so maybe, next year, it would be a good idea if the heads of state went to glasgow – to the cop26 – to show the importance that they give to the topic of climate protection (if indeed they do). in light of the disappointing outcome of madrid, it’s good to see that there was an agreement on climate neutrality in 2050 at the summit. this is a very important step, but of course it can only be one step forward: 2050 is quite late, and setting targets is only half the battle. what really matters is less the targets set for later on – they are important sure – but rather the actions you take today in order to achieve those targets. and for those concrete actions, the discussion on the long-term budget – the mff – is the perfect opportunity, because the eu budget needs to support the climate targets and not undermine them. right now, the proposals that we have on the table are not doing that job; they don’t match the climate talk. there are still too many harmful subsidies that are being dished out; too little going into the protection of climate and biodiversity. so i hope member states will start to walk the walk when it comes to climate and budget. it was disappointing to see that the polish government would isolate itself by not agreeing to the target. let’s not forget that 70% of the poles themselves are supporting that target, so i really hope the polish government will change its my mind: the later you start the transition the harder it will get, and the climate crisis does not stop at any one country’s border. brexit is – and remains – a tragedy, but this is not the end. we will never give up on our british friends. we will never forget them, and who knows: one day we might be able to say ‘welcome back, uk; welcome home’. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank him for that again. there is now a second belgian president here and i would like to spoil the fun by welcoming and cheering him here. you all listened to mr. macron. as you know, the spitzenkandidaten process was abandoned and replaced by candidates whose common characteristic was above all the knowledge of the french language. he has therefore appointed a french-speaking renew member as president of the council. as with the previous chairman, you have probably all thought: belgium is a complicated country, let's take the belgian prime minister, who will be a good manager of the european union. but that's a mistake, too. i am here to tell you that belgium is one of the most deplorable member states of the european union. mr michel has presented a budget for 2020 with 11 billion in debt, a deficit between that of greece and italy. so don't have the illusion that belgium is well governed. the citizens of belgium do not think so, because belgium has been left in political chaos for more than a year now. we celebrated yesterday 365 days of the belgian government crisis. no one in the belgian political elite knows where the next belgian government will come from. we have had elections, which are now replaced by the analysis that there should actually be new elections. nobody knows what's going to happen. meanwhile, the remnants of the michel government rule: 38 members of the house to 150. belgium is thus a minority regime which is actually governed in an almost dictatorial manner. the only consolation you have is that you have identified a multilateralist, an almost blind worshipper of the european union and of the ever closer union. - you did good. you also named someone who is a staunch supporter of mass immigration. because he has deliberately let his government down over the possibility for himself to go to marrakesh and sign the un immigration pact there. so, my dear colleagues, speaking as a citizen living in belgium, i can assure you that your so-called president of the council is not a unifier, but rather a source and a warning bell of political chaos. we, of the id group, are in favour of a european cooperation but firmly against your ever-closer union state. thus, the id group hopes that charles michel will be as disastrous for your european union as he was for belgium.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the council discussed many important issues last week, but may i just focus for a moment on brexit. indeed, the conservatives won a historic victory last thursday. 365 conservative members of parliament were elected, giving an 80 seat majority over all other parties. above all, this was a huge vote of confidence in boris johnson as prime minister and a mandate to get brexit done. it was also a total rejection of the command socialism being offered by the main opposition party. i hope there will no longer be a willingness in the eu institutions to be taken in by a few people waving blue flags or of past political leaders coming to brussels to peddle false messages to what became an echo chamber of self-delusion. the united kingdom and the european union will move ahead quickly in developing that ambitious, broad, flexible partnership, with a comprehensive free trade agreement at its core and many other areas of cooperation, so that we can together build a new partnership of friends and sovereign equals in tackling the great threats and challenges that affect us all. this is the great project for 2020, fuelled by the warmth expressed by the british prime minister for the other nations of europe, and i thank president von der leyen for her positive remarks and, indeed, the positive remarks made by a number of other colleagues. it’s in all our interests now to expedite the withdrawal agreement. it will be voted on in the house of commons this week so that we can leave without further difficulty on 31 january. provided there is efficiency, good faith and goodwill, we can then make rapid progress with negotiations on our future relationship so that a good free trade agreement and other arrangements can come into force by the end of 2020. this must be our joint aim. i know michel barnier approaches his task with this positive spirit and is ready to do all that is necessary to meet the timelines, and i trust that this house will be helpful in the process, and i wish you will a very happy christmas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr michel, i welcome you to the european parliament, since this is your first time here. my political group has major differences with your policy, but i must admit that the harsh attack you are receiving from the far right here in the european parliament raises the bar for the expectations we have of you. and i would say that the first problem you have to solve is to stop the council blocking things that the european parliament is asking for, things that the times require and things - at least some of them - that the commission is supporting and which are being blocked in the council. i start with a subject that is of great interest to our group, but it is of great concern to me as a greek. it is not enough, mr michel, to condemn in words the aggressiveness of the erdoğan regime, which threatens peace and stability in the mediterranean and the aegean, which threatens cyprus and greece and which threatens to set fire to a sensitive area. it is not enough to condemn in words! they want sanctions. the council decided to impose sanctions in june and october, but it must activate them. so i would like you to tell me why you are not activating these sanctions. secondly, the objectives that you and mrs von der leyen have set out - on climate change, social cohesion, rural policy, technological innovation - require money. and the european parliament, by a large majority, has come up with a proposal that says that to achieve these objectives we need at least 1.3% of european gdp. my own political group would like to see more ambitious targets for the social agenda, for the climate, but at least. that is what the european parliament is proposing by a large majority. so what's up? the council, acting under the finnish presidency, is proposing, in relation to the european parliament's proposals, cuts of 13% in regional development and cohesion, 27% in investment for people and social cohesion, 25% for life, for climate, 30% in the horizon programme, 48% in the erasmus programme, 35% in the connecting europe programme. at the same time, if we compare your proposals for the new multiannual budget with the previous one, you propose a 132% increase for immigration and border management and 650% for militarization, defense and security. what citizen can you convince with this policy? how long will you delay and postpone what is needed? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. i would like to have answers to your second question.
mr president, i stand today as a very proud englishman – proud of nigel farage for battling for brexit successfully after so many years, proud of my brexit party colleagues for steadfastly defending british democracy. and most of all, proud of the british people who, when asked at the general election, yet again, gave a very strong backing to leave the european union. i know some of you. you’ve been lied to. you were spun a myth that the british people had changed their mind. no, we have not. and now we seek to usher in a fresh chapter in the history of our great nation as we take back control of our borders, our money, our laws – free to forge global trade deals and govern our own country without restriction. the future is bright for brexit britain. now is our time. prime minister boris johnson, please do not let us down. it is time finally to take back control.
mr president, dear colleagues, it would be good to hear from you one day. where is your political space? where will you go when you leave the parliament? since thursday night, we have clarity with regard to the withdrawal of the uk. our british friends will leave the eu in an orderly manner at the end of january and become a third country. this is once again a moment to repeat: we respect but we regret. i’m sure existing friendships will last. the european parliament is prepared to finalise its part of the withdrawal process in time for the deadline. as much as i am sad to see our friends leave, we must now look to the future, and we take note of the strategic choice of the uk’s prime minister to limit the transition period by domestic legislation. we take this choice seriously, but of course we regret that, through this act, a provision in the agreement we jointly negotiated and agreed will be blocked. so much for negotiating in good faith. the eu has prepared extensively for the task ahead, and we are looking forward to constructive negotiations, as we want to conclude an ambitious agreement. our mandate for the negotiations will be based on the political declarations jointly agreed between the eu and the uk, and i hope that, with this declaration, we will be taken to the most unprecedentedly deep and diversified agreement we ever had with a third country, hopefully allowing us to tackle global challenges together while respecting european level-playing-field measures and the interests of the union. let me finish by saying that we must not forget that, in parallel to the negotiations, this house will spare no effort to ensure correct and full implementation of the withdrawal agreement and will monitor closely the enforcement of citizens’ rights.
there was a blue-card request from ms grapini. however, i am going to at this point say that we cannot take blue cards. i am under pressure to finish. ms grapini, i’m sorry, there are no blue cards, we are running out of time, so therefore i’d ask you to be very clear and stick to your time. we may even have a problem with catch-the-eye, but not for now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard important words from the president of the council here, particularly on the green deal. we welcome the fact that the council has committed itself in its conclusions, despite poland's opposition, to supporting the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 in line with the paris agreement. we are convinced that the green deal is a landmark not only for environmental protection but also for economic growth, competitiveness and the quality of life in europe. meanwhile, the green deal has already achieved one first result: the commission's proposal is to put the needs of citizens, the real economy and infrastructure back at the centre of european policies, after years of debate almost exclusively on the deficit and debt ratios in the budgets of individual member states. but the european council has shown some light and some shadow on this subject. the shadows? investments and their financing. we cannot be convinced by words alone, mr president michel, we need facts. we expect the council to make a clear commitment to the resources to finance the green deal without going around too much. a multiannual financial plan to meet the challenge we face and we must necessarily tackle the issue of the stability and growth pact and give member states the possibility of decoupling from the deficit/gdp ratio the investments that will help us achieve the objectives of the green deal. president von der leyen has shown courage and vision, but if the heads of state and government do not support her, her path and above all the path of european growth will be uphill.
madam president, the first thing i want to say to mr annemans is that what he has said is a scandal. i’m proud that a belgian is president of the european council, instead of all the stupid things you have said. and if you don’t know, dear colleagues: if there is a minority in belgium, it is the separatist of mr annemans who is the minority in belgium. to mr farage and his troops, i want to say that they make a lot of noise for having zero seats in the british elections. everybody said here: ‘we will miss our british colleagues of the lib dems, of labour’. well, i will not miss the brexiteers going out, i can tell you. i will not miss them. saying that, dear colleagues, there is a consent to be given by this parliament. and i know that everybody says and thinks: ‘oh, this consent will be given automatically, because it’s like that’. we have foreseen that this consent procedure will end in plenary on 29 january, but in the meanwhile, there is a problem to be solved. i have received, since the elections in britain, hundreds and hundreds of letters and emails of british citizens living in europe, panicking about their status. i have received hundreds of mails of eu citizens living in britain panicking about their status. and i think we need to solve that first, before we give our consent on this brexit treaty. why? neither citizens, british or europeans alike, can be the victims of this (in my opinion) not very intelligent choice of brexit. and i want to appeal to the prime minister of britain, to boris johnson, to be generous in his victory and to give to all the european citizens – and the british citizens alike, living on the continent – the full rights as they have today: automatically, to all of them, no ifs and no buts, as he always says, to do so. i want also to tell you that more and more people are coming back to another (and i will conclude with this) issue of european associated citizenship for british citizens who want to continue to feel that they are european, and i think we have to be open to that request.
madam president, and first of all, president charles michel: welcome, and congratulations on your first council. with the conclusions, for example, on your almost unanimity on climate neutrality, but we call it the unanimity – right? but it’s also very clear that a very important discussion is ahead of you on the mff, on the budget. and maybe this is also something for some of the countries that are always talking about climate action and climate ambition, and one of those countries is my own –that may be climate action also means that you have to do something with money. so maybe the netherlands, but also denmark and sweden and austria, and probably finland when they’re not president anymore, translate your ambition also into a higher budget that can help those countries to have a just transition on climate. second point, and that is a question to you, it took you now, and well not you, but the council, more or less one and half years to get to an agreement on a 2050 target. we only have one year until we go to glasgow to agree on a 2030 target, and in between, in september we have a very important eu-china summit, where europe needs to be ready. how are you going to make sure that the council is ready for an increased climate target 2030 before we have on 13 september in leipzig an eu-china summit? that i would like to hear – because that’s the real challenge – and i hope i can congratulate you on that outcome in june.
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, we are witnessing today the dance of the bad losers. everyone from the epp to the socialists, and guy verhofstadt to the present, regrets the choice democratically made by the british people. the verdict of the ballot box is a setback for you, who here in the european parliament, in the european institutions, have multiplied the manoeuvres to try to prevent brexit from taking place, you too who have sometimes tried to get a text adopted at any cost which is objectively contrary to the will of the people, a text which is contrary to the interests of great britain and, of course, unacceptable to the house of commons. however, with these results in the legislative elections, it is a double victory for boris johnson. first, a democratic victory. he has upheld the 2016 referendum, he has upheld the sovereign choice of the people, he has completed the negotiation and he will formalise the effective withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. but it is also, of course, a political victory. he has brought the people together, he has given his political family its biggest electoral success in over thirty years and he has freed himself from the big dogmas: lax migration or globalism as an insurmountable horizon. in the negotiations which will open the day after 31 january, because boris johnson will be able to defend british interests with the pugnacity that we know him for, we will have to defend the interests of our nations, be able to have a relationship with britain, a great friend, ally and partner, but also be able to defend the interests of european nations and not be afraid of competition, because competition also exists within the european union itself, between our countries.
madam president, i would like to thank you. one of the most hot political issues right now, it's the environment. the debate is both infected and emotionally driven, when it should be driven by facts and serious action. unfortunately, the focus is on punishing ordinary people who use cars or airplanes. in sweden we often beat ourselves up, and it is often pointed out that public transport is largely run on environmentally friendly fuel. what they do not say is that sweden only has a domestic production of environmentally friendly fuel that corresponds to 10 percent. the rest of the fuel is imported and contributes to a deforested amazon rain forest. how environmentally friendly is that? if this institution were serious about its environmental commitment, it would immediately put an end to this mad circus of moving to strasbourg for 12 weeks a year. well, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about environmental gain. the private jet they use and have increased funding for could also be stopped. if you are not prepared to do that, then frankly, it is nothing but populism and hypocrisy that you are engaged in.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european commission and commission president von der leyen have put forward a very ambitious programme. that is exactly what we need, namely courage, guidance, ideas and leadership. i am grateful to mrs von der leyen for her suggestions. this is precisely what we need in europe and what europe can do. but we have the advice on the second page. mr president-in-office, in the last term of office jean-claude juncker also had many great ideas. the problem we have is how many projects were not completed during the last parliamentary term because the council was unable to take decisions? how many delays have there been because individual member states have blocked and because they have not dared to take majority decisions in the council? how many farmers in our country have to worry because the council has again failed to adopt the budget in time? how many researchers can't plan their research projects? how many tons of co2 can't be saved because we don't have all these programs right now? i therefore urge you to remain ambitious and please bring movement to the council. we need this movement in europe urgently.
madam president, all eyes were on eu leaders, hoping that they would commit to a climate neutrality target by 2050, but poland refused to sign up and that’s not unanimity, even if the council tries to call it so. i hope it’s only a question of time. most importantly, i hope that all eu member states will actually be committed to this away from fancy headlines and away from fancy quotes to newsrooms. i hope that you will have the courage to push concretely for this transition with ambitious measures as of now and not let a couple of bigger member states bully their way through when push comes to shove. the european green deal is a step in the right direction, but if the member states believe that this is the way forward, then they need to put money where their mouth is. yes, we all know that there are challenges, but with challenges come opportunities if we are united in devising a strong way forward, the three institutions and all the member states together.
madam president, sadly, for all of us who think the european union offers the best future for the uk and the rest of europe, we now have to face the reality of brexit. last week, the european council reiterated its commitment to a level playing field in standards and regulations in trade between the eu and the uk, but the new uk government already threatens to break its commitments. we in the uk now have a serious risk to workers’ rights and environmental protections, to parliamentary scrutiny of trade deals, and therefore a risk – again – of the possibility of a no-deal brexit at the end of next year. this parliament, elected on proportional representation, demonstrates all that can be achieved by nations working together in cooperation, representing citizens against global corporate business interests and confronting the global challenges of climate breakdown, social injustice and the ecological crisis. citizens of europe look to their governments to protect them against the vested interests of financial and property millionaires and corporate power. many of us in the uk will continue to look to the best in the eu to lead in overcoming these challenges.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression, listening to your remarks, that you do not believe that there is a monetary crisis in europe despite zero and negative interest rates. there is no labor crisis, there is no economic crisis, there is no migration crisis, there is only the climate crisis. well, let's talk about the climate crisis, which you described last time in strasbourg as an emergency. i think it's a completely exaggerated and hysterical action. but either way, there's a majority for it. what you don't understand is that a good part of the european nomenclature is getting on the plane and then flying straight to madrid to continue to be squadroned, which is your business. where you could deliver would be, for example, this single-seat debate, reducing these two seats to one, namely in brussels or strasbourg, and not keeping the travelling circus. but i'll give you another example of dishonesty: go into the garage of this building and see how many six-cylinder and eight-cylinder engines are in the mep garage. it almost feels like they're doing another episode of the fast and the furious, but it's not an honest majority of people who are committed to climate change.
mr. michel, we know each other. you were very disappointed with the madrid climate summit. i can understand that, but with a crowd of 27 000 participants, you can never have a good meeting. it's going to be a mess. it turned out that way. and what is the ecological footprint of that climate summit? according to the guardian, 60,000 tons of co2. we're seeing these climatic peaks becoming more and more like a traveling circus. next year is the climate summit in glasgow, and then in the next few months there are interim summits in vancouver, durban, cali, kazan, edinburgh, kyoto and so on. it seems, ladies and gentlemen, to be the pace of formula one. the difference is that the co2 emissions of the formula 1 race are much lower than those of the climate summit. formula one wants to be climate neutral even by 2030. that's quite an accomplishment. so i call on the climate change assemblies in this room: stop with these expensive conferences that cost 100 million each, and take an example of the climate performance of formula one.
madam president, after three and a half years of deception and dishonesty, we will be leaving this prison of nations at the end of january. and we won’t become a third country, as i’ve been hearing this morning. no. we’re going to become an independent, self-governing nation. and you can delude yourselves this morning inside this cathedral that all is well, but it isn’t. it isn’t. people do not want to be run and governed by faceless bureaucrats like michel and von der leyen. did you hear them earlier? dull as ditchwater. you’re being rejected, and it’s great news that in poland, opinion polls now show a majority of poles think they’d be better off outside the european union. brexit is the beginning of the end of this project. we are giving leadership and will take it to a europe of sovereign states working together, being friends together, but not being run by the gang down at the middle there.
it is not a great way to make friends if you describe them as dull as ditchwater. a little bit of respect for members of this house and for our teams here. (applause)and as i have the chair, we all have faces, and the ones you describe as ‘faceless’ have been the most out there dealing with brexit. so i would just defend this institution and my colleagues. (applause)
madam president, i just want to say that i’m from poland and i’m quite surprised at what i’ve just heard about my fellow citizens in poland – that they want to leave europe. this is quite new. maybe i live in another country. pani przewodnicząca! panie przewodniczący! trzy uwagi. po pierwsze, chciałbym bardzo podziękować panu przewodniczącemu za to, że wczoraj wieczorem wyraził gotowość do rozmowy z nami jako negocjatorami wrf. uważam, że to jest bardzo dobry krok. bardzo dziękujemy za gotowość do współpracy, która na pewno będzie współpracą trudną. po drugie, chciałbym również wyrazić zadowolenie, że rada nie zamknęła drzwi negocjacyjnych po zobaczeniu negobox prezydencji fińskiej, bo to może być jakiś punkt wyjścia, ale na pewno to nie jest baza do dalszych prac w sposób taki, jak wskazała prezydencja fińska. to dobrze, że rada nie zamknęła tego etapu, tylko powiedziała, że będzie kontynuować prace. i po trzecie – przed nami jest bardzo ważna decyzja polityczna. brexit jest albo szansą, albo trudnością. myślę, że najwyższy czas na trudne decyzje finansowe.
madam president, with the results in the british elections, it is now clear that there is in the house of commons a sufficient majority to approve the withdrawal agreement and conclude brexit by the end of january. this is, of course, a sad moment in the history of europe, but it is also a democratic choice that we must respect. but it also proves that mr farage is wrong in saying that europe is a prison of nations. our duty now is to concentrate on our common future, and that means to negotiate with the united kingdom sound and friendly economic and political future relations that can serve our common interests and that can safeguard the integrity of the single market and our high levels of environmental, social and labour protection. this is the key for successful negotiations, and only by the end of 2020 will we know if the ‘no-deal’ brexit scenario is really off the table. in concentrating on our common future, we also have to address the expectations of our citizens, the idea of a conference on the future of europe, and the green deal. these are all very important, but there are shortcomings regarding the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, the conclusion of the banking union and the euro, which should remind us that we should do better in order to answer the challenges of brexit.
madam president, as many have said, the uk election has given a tragic clarity on brexit. johnson did not get a majority of the votes: many more uk citizens voted for parties opposing his brexit. however, our system has given him a large majority and brexit will now take place on 31 january. i’m deeply grateful for the efforts of the council, and mr barnier in particular, to keep as close a relationship as possible. i’m particularly concerned about the impact on cooperation in scientific and academic research. partnership between european countries has been incredibly beneficial in advancing scientific and technological knowledge for the benefit of the whole world. i know that european institutions are concerned that the uk will try to undermine standards on workers’ rights and environmental protection and we share those concerns. we will try in the uk to do all we can to maintain those crucial workers’ rights and environmental protections. finally, thank you all for your support of those of us in the uk who have fought to remain. we continue to believe that the uk would have a better future within the eu. mr farage is wrong. the future is in fantastic democratic institutions like this and i hope that one day we will return.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your europe is increasingly enslaved by the banks and the interests of france and germany. the new commission and the last council are there to prove it. franco-german europe wants an italy invaded by illegal immigrants. the famous malta agreement on immigration does not exist. it's a piece of junk, it's a big bluff. the french-german europe wants to impose the esm to steal money from the italians, with the complicity of the pd and five star government, an abusive government, built and imposed by europe on the head of the italian people. just like you imposed the monti government in 2011 to put your hands in the pockets of the italians. but who gives you the power to trample on democracy and the popular will of the citizens? dear bureaucrats of brussels, pack your bags, because very soon, very soon, the italian people will send you home, forever.
chairmen, colleagues, the philosophy behind the green deal deserves support. we need a sustainable, realistic transformation to address the climate challenges. the council rightly concludes that this requires research, development and innovation. commissioner vestager said it well this week: technology is not a nice extra to tackle climate challenges, technology is essential. but the green deal stands or falls with the funding and there are still many unknowns, of course also linked to the multiannual budget. the green deal requires additional resources on top of the €260 billion already committed to meet the 2030 targets. i look forward to those funding measures. on the multiannual budget, president michel said that he was 'looking for a compromise in close cooperation with the commission'. i would remind the president that parliament too needs to find that compromise.
madam president, as sure as eggs is eggs, this is probably my last speech and i want to say: i am scottish, i am british, and i remain a european. and you may sit there with your fixed expressions casting doubt upon all i say, but i was a courier of samizdat material to the soviet union and its underground. i supported members of solidarność in the 1980s. i worked for the fall of the berlin wall and the iron curtain. this place is the antithesis of being a good european: it works against the diversity of our cultures and our economies. this jumped—up virtue-signalling student union is not even about a united states of europe. instead it works ceaselessly – ceaselessly – to merge everyone into one homogenised blob of central control. the uk wants no part of it. we are leaving, and good riddance. we are leaving not because of dan hannan or dominic cummings, but because nigel farage and richard tice set up the brexit party that rebooted brexit. i encourage all – all – true europeans to ... (the president cut off the speaker)(interjection from mr monteith: ‘freedom!’)
madam president, after the failure of the cop 25 in madrid, europe seems to be one of the few places willing to undertake the fight against climate change. this has to change. we must do more to encourage others outside europe to do their part. for instance, china should no longer be defined as a developing nation. europe will not save the planet alone. the czech republic is willing to do our part for the climate, but we will need help. the proposed just transition fund should not just be the cohesion fund rebranded. there must be new funds. equally, while a green investment plan is a nice idea, without the private sector these funds would certainly not meet the needs of industrialised countries, such as the czech republic, slovakia and other countries in the region, which face a far greater challenge to meet the climate goals while maintaining their economies.
madam president, well i see the european parliament has already started to cut its emissions: there’s more people in the gallery than in the chamber, and you lot are actually supposed to believe in this project. what a joke! for three years, most people in this building have been in complete denial. you hoped by bullying the uk and conspiring with brexit naysayers in our own parliament, the great british people would be worn down and change their minds. how wrong you were: voters don’t live in your eu bubble. they don’t want lives run by unaccountable eu fanatics, and despite your best efforts, brexit will be a massive success. the uk now has real leverage in negotiations, and i hope boris johnson will tell you lot to forget your level playing field, ditch your regulations, and we will embrace full-fat freedom. we won’t just survive; we will thrive. rather than fight the inevitable, the eu should watch and learn as the uk becomes truly democratic and global, because if you do not – mark my words – the federalists will see your stupid project relegated to the dustbin of history. merry brexmas.
okay, the amendments have been withdrawn. we shall therefore begin the vote with paragraph 23 of amendment no 8.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, the following comments have been made by members of the polish lgbti community: ‘now it’s cool and trendy to be anti-gay, we don’t feel safe here’. pis’s new focus on countering western lgbti ideology has largely replaced its prior rallying calls against migrants. i see my colleague is no longer in the chamber for me to call her out on her anti-sub-saharan phobia, because it is the nature of phobia that you just choose another group to speak and act against. a pis member of the regional parliament who led the campaign for the lgbt-free-zone declaration said recently: ‘for us, the whole lgbtq thing is something abnormal. we feel it is a sick minority trying to impose itself on the healthy mainstream of society’. we were told in the debate that the poles tolerated homophobia. they do not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of hatred fostered by the polish authorities towards the lgbti community and the attitude of those who justify violent verbal and physical attacks is unacceptable. when the fundamental rights of european citizens are being violated, the european parliament does not stand by and watch, but the commission and the council must also condemn them. that is why i am in favour of this motion for a resolution. that is why the process for the directive on non-discrimination and violence, which has been blocked in the council for 11 years, must be completed. the legislative gap in protection against offences arising from prejudice based on sexual orientation and gender identity should be closed. the rights of lgbti persons are fundamental rights, which the european institutions and the member states have a duty to respect and protect in accordance with the treaties, the charter and international law. motions like this make us realize that we are still in danger and that therefore rights, even the right to love, must be defended. europe, then, is not homophobic, get this through your head.
mr. chairman, i have an understanding of the rights of the disabled, of course, but also of the rights of all minorities. i'm all for everyone's rights being generally guaranteed. i'm against discrimination against lgbt people, of course. it should be recalled that such discrimination is contrary to the fundamental constitutional principles and the documents of the european union. i also believe it's against the constitution and the law that poland provides. the declaration of lgbti-free zones that is happening in poland could really lead to hatred and homophobia, and therefore i cannot agree to something like that. but i think that's a problem that poland has to solve. i believe that polish citizens will stand up against inciting hatred against their fellow citizens, whatever their ideology. that's why i stayed.
mr president, once again we have a resolution called a ‘resolution on motherhood and apple pie’ that then turns out to say we need a common european policy on maternity and we need standardised european patisserie. i’m a libertarian: i’ve always found it utterly bewildering that governments should wish to discriminate against their citizens on grounds of sexual preference. i was an early supporter in my country of equality of the age of consent and of civil partnerships, but that isn’t what this motion’s about; it’s about the abuse of power to ‘europeanise’ something where there is absolutely no basis in the european treaties for brussels involvement. and the reason these motions are repeatedly put down is solely as a sort of exercise so that virtue—signalling halfwits can then put out a press release saying: ‘x or y voted against this and therefore doesn’t care about homophobia’. that is not the case. we care about due process. it is perfectly possible to believe in equality and dignity for all citizens, but also to believe in the sanctity of the ballot box and the democratic process.
mr. chairman, i voted strongly, convincingly against the resolution that supports and calls for lgbt propaganda and ideology in fraternal poland. the union must understand that there are still countries in europe, such as poland, hungary and bulgaria, where citizens believe that the family consists of a voluntary union between a woman, a man and their children. there are still places where people want nothing to do with the propaganda of depravity and want solutions to the real problems that concern them. the european union has much more important things to do than tell people how to live. let's discuss them, let's let the people who believe in family values and traditionalism decide for themselves where, with whom and how they want to live. the violent imposition of lgbt ideology, as well as the different strategies for the child, which are already reflected in the neighboring building of the court of human rights in strasbourg, reminds of the turbulent totalitarian times when the last word was with the citizens, not the dictators. with such resolutions on christmas eve, the dictatorship returns, and that is unacceptable.
mr president, lgbti isn’t an ideology, it’s who people are. the point i want to make in my explanation of vote is that this resolution talks about homophobia in sport, and sadly, on occasion, and in places, that happens. what the resolution doesn’t talk about, though, that i want to mention, is the important role sport can play in tackling that homophobia. we’ve just had another very successful stonewall rainbow laces campaign in football. i’m a member of the british horseracing authority’s diversity and inclusion steering group, and there’s really important, valuable work going on in british horseracing at the moment across the area of equality and diversity. so let me just make this point: unfortunately, sport sometimes is the arena of homophobia, but it’s also the place where we can help win the race to full equality and kick the homophobes and those who make homophobic abuse off the pitch for good.
mr president, i abstained on this motion because it centres on criminalising hate speech, which is problematic and censorious. who decides what’s ‘hate speech’? for example, in the uk, many of those labelled ‘transphobic’ are lesbians and feminists who won’t conform to the new intolerant transgender activists and their orthodoxies that actually demand that we women deny our bodies biologically and our autonomy. secondly, the eu’s attempts at disciplining other nation states and their democratic decisions because they won’t fit in with your orthodoxy does not win or help the arguments for equality. bureaucratic imposition is not political victory. passing motions is not winning hearts and minds.
mr president, i support this cross-party resolution on public discrimination and hate speech, whether online or not, against lgbti people and express my solidarity in the ongoing fight for lgbti rights across europe and the globe. tolerance and inclusiveness are the foundations upon which the eu was built and continues to build. we must work together in the fight on the ongoing backlash against lgbti right across europe. there is no room for lgbt-free zones across europe or the continent or the globe. we must strongly support the role of education in promoting healthy relationships, self-respect and human rights and dignity. that’s particularly the case for girls across europe. we must also protect the freedom of movement of lgbti families through concrete measures and protection of the core eu rights as enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, and we must not only defend them but expand them. so for example, in any free trade agreement, we must have an equality and human rights impact assessment, and if it fails, there is no deal.
mr president, i am pleased to express my strong support for the resolution we’ve passed today in this parliament against public discrimination and hate speech against lgbti people. i have to tell mr brudziński and his conservative colleagues that it is right, i’m afraid, to highlight the cases in poland – cases which now include the extraordinary case of bishop szymon niemiec of the reformed church in warsaw, who is facing prosecution simply for conducting services of prayer and support for the lgbti community in warsaw. this is the kind of prosecution that completely fails to respect the underlying values of the european union. lgbti rights are human rights, and they must be respected.
mr president, it seems that we are faced with a dilemma here: either free trade or environmental protection. and in my opinion, this dilemma is false. ultra-liberals believe that climate change is not true, or that climate change is not caused by human action, so any free trade agreement, with or without precautions, is welcome. the manual greens believe that any trade agreement is a license to do what you think is right, without prejudice to what happens to the environment, and cite bolsonaro as an obvious example. in my opinion, the dilemma - i insist - is false. what we have to do is to harmonize environmental protection with the opening up of frontiers. that is, to go to sustainable development. and in my opinion, the agreement does that well. the agreement says that all environmental agreements are respected, that the paris agreement must be implemented, that illegal deforestation is condemned and that member countries are obliged to carry out substantial reforestation. it mandates corporate social responsibility for private companies. it lays down a specific procedure for the settlement of disputes. and it sets very clear standards for food safety. i would therefore like to reiterate that my group is in favour of the mercosur agreement, believing that the mercosur agreement respects the commitment we have to honour in the european green deal on environmental protection.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the european green deal means that the european commission is finally taking a holistic approach and proposing a strategy for the structural change we so badly need. the green deal is a game changer, and it feels like it. and that's why i ran into this debate. because i really didn't want to miss this. i would also like to say that although i had very high expectations, i really feel with all my heart that the european commission did everything to show that it is broad and that we will take action for the whole of the policy, with new proposals, but also put a very massive emphasis on existing legislation. this is a great victory for us social democrats who really want to see this change for europe. it gives hope to a young generation who have been out in the streets, who have pushed this parliament and shown that we want change for the whole of europe. the green deal means we show that we are serious about a sustainable future. but with all this praise for the commission, i would also like to declare that the green deal is of course also binding. it will not be a sunny red carpet being rolled out, or a green carpet for that matter, but it will be a constant dialogue with parliament. on our part, there are several aspects we must take into account as we now switch jobs. the world is watching our work very closely, and that's why it's so important that we get it right. we must show, with a successful green transition, that we will take the lead in making glasgow the success we need for the world. europe will not be able to do this green deal on its own. and that is why it is important that we also build up relations up to glasgow, which means that all countries are now stepping up their efforts. we need to use them much more strategically.
madam president, the central question here is consistency. is our trade policy consistent with our climate goals? with regard to the eu—mercosur deal, the answer is clearly ‘no’. it is, of course, true that trade can be beneficial for both parties. any child can tell you that, exchanging cards in the playground. but not all trade is good trade, and so—called free trade has hidden social and ecological costs. we all pay the price for destruction of forests and for climate change. exporting more fossil-fuelled cars from europe in exchange for more beef grown on land that was previously the amazon is making no sense at all. minister tuppurainen, commissioner hogan, you both mentioned the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter. minister, you called it ‘robust’. i actually initially heard the word ‘rubbish’, and i had to step back and question myself for a bit. it’s not rubbish, but let’s be perfectly honest about it: there is nothing in that chapter that will put a brake on bolsonaro. commissioner hogan, you also referred to the commitment on article 5, but it could not be clearer that president bolsonaro frankly does not give a toss about the amazon or about the climate. his obstructiveness at cop 25 last week was yet more evidence of that. some of my colleagues elsewhere in this house have claimed that we will have more leverage if we sign this agreement. there is no evidence whatsoever that this will happen. the point of leverage is before signing. we need evidence of concrete change and improvement and also evidence from our side that trade policy is compatible with our climate and biodiversity goals. i call on you to ensure that.
madam president, this parliament was promised a radical green deal. european citizens and young people around the world who look to european leadership on the environment were promised a radical green deal. but if it is to mean anything at all, this green deal must cover all aspects of legislation, including every single trade deal negotiated here – not just mercosur. commissioner, our leverage is strongest before we sign any deal, and the paris climate targets have to be more important than the prospect of brazilian beef on our supermarket shelves. europe exports its values through trade, and we must use new trade agreements to guarantee that strong environmental legislation, democratic safeguards and good law and governance are respected. the mercosur deal is the best opportunity we will ever have here to win guarantees on protection of the amazon. if we mean what we say about wanting to prioritise climate targets, then it is high time that we followed words with action. trade can be a force for good, but in the time it’s taken to negotiate this deal, the climate emergency has become urgent, and that must now be our priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my closeness to the nicaraguan people, who, as you know, are going through a dramatic political and humanitarian crisis. over 300 dead, maybe more, thousands injured, mostly protesters. this is the tragic measure of the crisis that has been gripping nicaragua for the past 18 months. the strategy of suppression of peaceful demonstrations, ostensibly directed at the highest levels of government, has led to a cruel and systematic assault on the right to life, political pluralism and freedom of expression, which are essential pillars of democracy. the serious and continuous violation of human rights and the abuse of power by president ortega and his family regime violates the constitution and seriously affects the democratic order of the country. prisoners are living in inhuman and unacceptable conditions. we therefore call on the authorities to assume their responsibilities, to guarantee the exercise of fundamental rights, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, we must immediately apply individual sanctions. only through dialogue between the parties and the respect of the agreements reached at the table will it be possible to find a way out of this dramatic crisis, and we will support you in this, mr high representative.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you very much to all of you. for sure, a peaceful and democratic way out of the crisis requires meaningful electoral reforms in order to let the nicaraguan people decide their destiny. on that, i think everybody agrees. but i don’t think the fault really lies with the cia or the banana company. we are facing a situation of repression and violation of human rights by the ortega regime, and the fact that ortega was for a long time a guerrilla fighting for the freedom of his country doesn’t change anything about the current situation. every one of you wishes the best for the nicaraguan people. me too. but politics is not just piling up wishes. what can we do? some have proposed suspending the european union-central america trade agreement with nicaragua. i think the suspension of the trade part of the eu-central american association agreement could create hardship for the nicaraguan population, not only in nicaragua but also in the rest of the central american region. and i do not think this is a good idea. why not suspend eu cooperation? we haven’t suspended eu cooperation, once again, to avoid harming the nicaraguan population. our cooperation activities have been screened to ensure that they do not benefit the regime directly and our financial instruments have been used to support human rights defenders and the nicaraguan refugees in costa rica. why has the european investment bank not suspended its operation? for the same reason. we are sticking to our contractual obligations. should we call for early elections? well, during the demonstrations in mid-2018 the opposition insisted on bringing forward the elections, a request that president ortega fiercely rejected. i think that if electoral reforms are not adopted beforehand, then the electoral process would be of no help. our priority should be the implementation of electoral reforms on the basis of the recommendations made by the european union in the last observation mission. why haven’t we sanctioned ortega or vice-president murillo? well, the us and canada have adopted individual sanctions against vice-president murillo and members of the ortega/murillo family. we haven’t done it yet. this is something the member states should be reflecting upon. i don’t exclude it, but sanctions are meant to create incentives for a change. that’s why and how we have to calibrate them. are we expecting to send an electoral observation mission to nicaragua? well, in the current situation of repression and failure of the rule of law, i do not think it would make any sense. what we have to do is put our political and diplomatic pressure in order to release the prisoners, not only the belgian lady that has been mentioned, there are many others. i have to inform you that our head of delegation in nicaragua has been visiting the families of these prisoners and in particular, the father of amaya. we will continue putting political pressure, because i think that there we really have a systematic violation of human rights and there is no excuse for it. it’s not a matter of multinational injuries, it’s clearly a matter of a regime which doesn’t pass any kind of test about their behaviour with respect to their people’s rights. i have mentioned the desirability of adding names to the list of individual sanctions. this would require a discussion at the level of the european union foreign affairs ministers and then agreement by unanimity. we will discuss it and i really ask for your support in order to face the situation in nicaragua, which is, as i said, as bad as in venezuela, but we don’t talk about nicaragua as much. today is a good occasion to do so.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, you are all aware that iran is in the midst of an extremely serious economic crisis with shortages of basic supplies, including medicines, a high level of inflation and unemployment leading to protests. i and my service have followed the developments around the recent protests very closely. since they began on 15 november, one month ago, we have been trying to obtain reliable verified information on the number of deaths, injuries and arrest. we have also seen, as i am sure you have, video of snipers shooting at protesters and seen official confirmation of at least 7 000 people arrested. this underlines the severity and the magnitude of what is occurring, what has occurred, what is still happening. we have not been silent in response to these developments; on the contrary, we have responded both privately and publicly. indeed, my first statement as high representative on behalf of the 28 – still 28 – member states on 9 december was about the protests in iran. in that statement we clearly stated that despite repeated calls for restraint, the iranian security forces’ disproportionate response to the demonstrations led to a high number of deaths and injuries, and once more i want to emphasise that whether in iran or elsewhere, the widespread use of force against non—violent protesters is unacceptable. we have urged the iranian authorities to ensure transparent and credible investigations to clarify the number of deaths and arrests and we expect all perpetrators of violence to be held accountable. i’m aware that this crackdown also extended to access to the internet and that iranian citizens were prevented from accessing global networks, which severely impacted communication and the free flow of information. we are committed to pursuing a balanced and comprehensive approach with iran; a balanced and comprehensive approach with iran with a view to addressing all issues of concern and this of course includes our long-standing concerns regarding the human rights situation. in the context of the regular eu-iran high-level political dialogue with iran – with the adoption of the iran nuclear deal, the famous jcpoa – we have raised human rights issues and cases. we have also regularly engaged with the authorities to demand progress on several important human rights, including the use of the death penalty, the rights of women and iran’s practice of detaining dual nationals. this has also extended to demanding such improvements in international fora such as the united nations human rights council. i fully understand the severity of the situation with regard to the protests, and we will continue to address this response and urge concrete actions as part of our diplomacy with iran, which is not limited to the nuclear problems still. we firmly believe that the iranian authorities must live up to their international obligations, including both the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. rights such as freedom of expression and assembly must always be respected and i am looking forward to working with you to promote better respect for these rights across the world. today we have analysed several cases of this situation, which require a stronger stance from the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, following our last resolution in september about the detainment of eu-iranian dual nationals, including my constituent, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who is facing her fourth christmas in a jail in tehran when she should be at home with her family, the iranian government has shown a further flagrant disregard for the rights of its own people. last month saw the biggest protest since the 1979 revolution break out in response to a 50% increase in fuel prices. this peaceful protest was followed by a brutal crackdown by the iranian authorities, involving the arrest of up to 7 000 individuals, hundreds of people being injured, and according to amnesty international, at least 304 people, including children, have been killed. freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are recognised as fundamental rights by the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which iran is party. the protestors in iran had a legitimate reason to be protesting, yet the iranian authorities responded disproportionately and inflicted harm on them. it is the duty of governments to protect their own people. these actions are a far cry from that. furthermore, the nationwide shutdown of online communications by the government has made it difficult for iranians to tell their stories. this is an infringement of their free speech. such behaviour is set against a backdrop of an increasingly repressive environment in iran, which has seen human rights defenders, independent media, lawyers and online activists targeted for speaking out about what is happening in the country. the eu must act now. this resolution, which will be discussed tomorrow, demands that the protesters be freed unconditionally; calls upon you, mr borrell fontelles, as the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to continue to raise our concerns about the human rights situation in iran; and asks that the un human rights council conduct an investigation. the rights of the iranian people and dual eu nationals cannot wait.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, more than 300 people were killed and thousands arrested during last month’s protests in iran, following a brutal crackdown by the iranian authorities. however, the iranian government has not provided any information about the protests to date and continues to deny the grave human rights violations perpetrated against those protesters. the official death toll as well as the whereabouts of many detainees continue to be unknown. there are also credible claims that those who have been held in detention have been subjected to ill treatment. journalists, students and human rights defenders have been among those detained and killed for defending their rights. we therefore have to call on the iranian authorities to put an end to the ongoing crackdown on protesters and to ensure that a prompt and impartial investigation, led by the united nations, is carried out to clarify the facts and hold accountable all those responsible. the eu and its member states should join this call and ensure proper scrutiny of the facts by proposing an independent inquiry into those human rights allegations. the economic situation in iran has been worsening as a result of the us sanctions, and the recent protests are a reflection of this economic unease. that is why i want to celebrate the efforts made by the high representative in order to continue boosting the joint comprehensive plan of action, the jcpoa, which remains the most important tool that we have to stabilise the region and also the most important tool that we have to have a proper dialogue on human rights with the country. we need, as europe, to continue towards that path, to make sure that everybody respects that framework. and for that, i think that your efforts will be extremely necessary and important.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, even the lowest, most cautious number of victims of the recent crackdown in iran against peaceful protesters means an enormous death toll – a shocking death toll. thousands are being kept behind bars. thousands have been injured. in view of this situation, we have to raise our voice. i’m very grateful to the european parliament that, across political divisions, we are able to prepare a joint resolution condemning the regime for the killings, asking the un to independently investigate the issue, requiring the regime to publish reliable numbers of the victims, releasing bodies to the families of the victims, and putting an end to the continued impunity of those responsible for the crackdown and the violence against society in iran.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not firstly, let us be clear: human rights are universal, no matter where or under what circumstances. they are non-negotiable! in other words, for the violation of human rights, for the imprisonment of people, for the killing of people, there is no relative explanation - there can be no such thing - and therefore there is no other way than to stand behind the protesting iranians and support their demands. today, as we awarded the 2019 sakharov prize, i naturally call on the iranian leadership again and again to finally release nasrin sotoudeh. secondly, it is absolutely not serious not to address the fact that the us sanctions are hurting no one more than the iranian people. these sanctions must be removed, and this must be made clear from here. the worsening of the social situation in iran is not only made in iran, but also made in the usa. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the fact that the united states is not a party to the conflict. anyone who thinks that more and more repression will lead to regime change is really naive. the only ones who are really benefiting from the current situation are the hardliners in iran. but they are precisely the ones most responsible for the human rights violations in iran. but they're supported by it. i ask you to consider this connection. we should not be petty, we should not be naive and we should address things as they are, and i believe that is why we are here.
mr president, like the others, i deplore the recent deaths and human rights violations in iran and the continued imprisonment of political prisoners like nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe who should be freed immediately. but the number one policy aim in iran is to stop it building a nuclear weapon and destabilising the middle east, but it is now reinstating uranium enrichment. the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) nuclear agreement offered hope, but we must brace ourselves for its failure and urgently look for a plan b. the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex) – the eu plan to circumvent us sanctions – is taking too long and offers too little. the fact that the us is the eu’s largest trade partner, a thousand times greater than trade with iran, speaks volumes to the eu’s priorities. its plan to route iranian oil through russia won’t help. the eu’s attempts at foreign policy in this area are in a mess. iran is now threatening reprisals against the eu members. it is right that a coalition of member states and other global players is part of the solution, but without the active involvement of the us, the eu is whistling in the wind. many people in this parliament deny president trump. i’ve lost count of how many virtue-signalling meps have tried to score cheap points by insulting europe’s greatest protector and ally, but if we want to keep the middle east nuclear-free, resume trade, and support the human rights of iranians, only the americans have the power, relationships and influence in the region to make this happen. the eu needs to urgently restore friendships and influence in washington, not tehran, and i’m certain that brexit britain’s special relationship with the us can help.
madam president, i would like to thank the minister and the commissioner for the time given to this issue. we know that fgm is a global issue, and we know it happens in every country around the world to girls. we also know that girls living in the eu have been cut, including about 2 000 in wales, the country that i represent – and it’s a pretty small country – yet prosecutions are really low, alarmingly low. earlier this year, the uk saw its only prosecution for fgm, 30 years after it was first made unlawful. this demonstrates how little attention is paid to the grave consequences for the girls and women involved. last year wales opened its first clinic for specific medical and psychological help for survivors of fgm. specialised services like these are vital, yet it’s exactly these services which are most at risk after brexit, because of key eu funding being lost. strong legislation is essential in protecting and empowering women and girls in holding perpetrators to account. the istanbul convention and cedaw – and we celebrate 40 years today of cedaw – are two powerful tools tackling violence against women and girls, including fgm, yet these remain largely unimplemented in the uk. we must use legislative tools like this as part of a holistic approach, and i just mention a couple: community and youth engagement, tackling disinformation, discrimination, protection of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, training, funding and education. let’s make this the last generation of girls to face the cruelty and human rights violation of fgm.
madam president, although one of the first un resolutions against female genital mutilation was adopted in 1952, more than 200 million women worldwide are still subject to it and 3 million more are at risk of becoming so every year. this is a clear indication of the ineffectiveness of international action in what should be a priority fight for women's rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. this is a reflection of immigration, of course, but it is also the result of religious obscurantism, particularly in some muslim communities around the world. a 2008 usaid-funded study recognized this outright. the identification of the real causes and those who are really responsible is a first, decisive and salutary step in the struggle which is now being waged on our soil. i wish i didn't have to take any more moral lessons from mrs. 123, who is no longer here i don't think she should be giving me any lessons.
madam president, every year thousands of women and girls are victims of genital mutilation all over the world. the practice amounts to torture and violates the physical and psychological integrity of women. it is time to take concrete action to end this scourge. we cannot accept that on the basis of custom, tradition, culture or religion, this type of behaviour is perpetuated. it is essential that the international community has zero tolerance for the thousands of acts perpetrated annually, inside and outside the union, which constitute a serious violation of human rights. fundamental rights, the dignity of the human person and equality between men and women are core values of the european project. it is a crime in all member states, but only a handful of cases have been convicted. increased capacity of member states is needed to protect women and girls at risk. it is essential that those responsible for these crimes committed in the eu and outside the eu are brought to justice and that communities are involved in education and awareness raising about this scourge. only then will we achieve the united nations' proposed goal of completely eradicating the practice by 2030. i hope that this will be a priority for the new commission and that the eu will be at the forefront of this fight.
madam president, commissioner, i listened with interest to your speech and to your initiative, which i am sure the european parliament will support. i'm glad that most of the speakers see this violence against women as a great danger. i personally see two planes of this problem. first, the violence that is happening here in europe, and then the violence against women that is happening in third countries. you need instruments for both, but different ones, i guess. i believe that the european commission should develop programmes that are clearly directed against this violence here in europe. it is a shame that there are still tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of cases of female circumcision in europe, especially among migrants coming to europe. we must make it clear to these people: you come here, you work here, but you must accept and respect our european values. and that is the protection of human rights and equality between women and men. i think we have a lot to catch up on here. it is necessary for the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, the criminal authorities to cooperate so that these acts are really severely punished, including by the courts in the individual member states. i think that there is not much cooperation between the individual member states and that we know of tens of thousands of cases. let's be realistic: how many people in europe were affected by this kind of behaviour? how many people were convicted? here's your role, where you can make an impact. in addition, of course, there is the need to operate in the third world, where the work will be longer, more demanding, but i see the primary problem and your role at this moment right here in europe. here we owe it to those who live here or who come here and want asylum, dignity and protection of their human rights.
we have said a lot about female genital mutilation, this barbaric act, and you have said a lot about it, and in this regard, i would like to emphasize the importance of prevention rather than monstrosity, in the face of this terrible barbarity. so let's look at what we can actually do about prevention. today was a very good example of how, at the initiative of my colleague mr kanko, we were able to welcome a group of young kenyan girls called 'the restorers' - others have mentioned this - and really engage with the younger generations. let me remind you that in africa alone, on the continent that i love so much, 42 percent of the population is under 14 years old. we need to do much more, much more effectively, with the new generations growing up on the youngest continent, but this can only be done through dialogue and education. we need to stand up for women and girls in conflict areas, who are among the most vulnerable. when we talk about tradition, tradition, it has nothing to do with religion. education is an essential tool for gender equality and the empowerment of women. according to unesco data, more than 18 million young girls in sub-saharan africa are not in primary school. we need to change that, work with local agencies, governments, churches.
madam president, i fully agree with my colleagues who spoke here today. female genital mutilation is a barbaric practice, a crime indeed. i don't know any justification by any social norms, cultural norms or any customs. it's just a crime, and that's what it should be called. i feel a great shame that this debate is also on the rise in the european union, in our area. we've been talking about this repeatedly since the last term, and it's really striking that in the european space, this practice is on the rise. yes, they're closed communities or communities of newly arrived refugees, but clearly the control file is failing. those who are supposed to oversee this act in terms of criminalizing it, they turn a blind eye. the lack of investigation is, i think, a very sad picture of our particular world in the european union. we should all condemn that unequivocally. first of all, to sweep our own doorstep and, of course, to make an effort to persuade, to make a diplomatic effort towards our partners in third countries. i think the european commission has put forward a good initiative, and i fully support it. it should be accompanied by a diplomatic effort to persuade, to look out for those other countries. millions of women, female circumcision is really worth our activity and i thank you for it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the presidency for their contribution to this debate and to thank all honourable members for their interventions, which reflect a shared commitment to fight against female genital mutilation. i am emboldened by the fact that we are all together in this. i will take your ideas into account in the development of the new gender equality strategy and throughout my work in the european commission. i am grateful for the dedication and support of this parliament towards this cause and i look forward to continuing with our collaboration. as mentioned by quite a few of the honourable members here, i hope that the remaining six member states will ratify the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention requires that the state parties criminalise fgm, including coercion or procurement of this violation. i will work so that the eu will manage to ratify the convention during this term, but i count on your support to convince the remaining member states. we must all keep in mind that women and girls should not be made to wait.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, 2020 will be marked by a line-up of important milestones in regard to gender equality, such as: the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action; the 5th anniversary of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development; the 20th anniversary of the un security council resolution on women, peace and security; and lastly, the renewal of the eu strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019. in february, we will indeed celebrate the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation (fgm). ladies and gentlemen, let’s now put an end to fgm once and for all. all women and girls should be allowed to live free and safe, as whole individuals. in the light of the proposed accession of the eu to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the istanbul convention, the finnish presidency calls on all actors to devote special attention to ensuring coherence between internal and external eu policies and action. combating all forms of violence against women and young girls is a core element of the respect for human rights and fundamental rights. our finnish presidency has continued working on the eu accession to the istanbul convention, and we have encouraged those that still have not ratified the istanbul convention to do so. i have no doubt that, among those actors, the european parliament – you, as representatives – will continue to lead on those issues that are at the heart of our common eu values. thank you again for this very important debate, and it this indeed a great honour to conclude the finnish presidency with this important topic. president, allow me to thank you all for this extraordinary autumn. it has indeed been a tremendous time with you here in the parliament, debating all kinds of different topics. i’ve spent hours representing the council and the member states in this plenary here in strasbourg and in brussels, and it has been worth every minute. thank you so much. thank you all. our presidency eventually comes to an end, but the fight for human rights, democracy and the rule of law continues. thank you all, and i wish you all a merry christmas. i hope you all can spend some time with your families and your loved ones.
in writing. – all forms of gender-based violence, no matter in the eu or around the world, are zero-tolerant. i strongly support the council and commission’s commitment to combatting gender-based violence, putting it as top priority in the eu gender equality strategy and, in particular, to working collectively to eradicate female genital mutilation (fgm). fgm severely violates the fundamental rights of women and girls worldwide and has serious life-long consequences on women’s health, physically but also psychologically. we must strengthen the data collection at the eu level for mapping women victims in the member states, enhance supportive measures, in close collaboration with national authorities, health professionals, and civil society, and accelerate the eu’s ratification of the istanbul convention. effective measures on eliminating the barriers of reporting fgm and successful prosecution are also urgently required. at the international level, the eu should be more active in supporting the implementation of cedaw, the un convention on the rights of the child, and other international instruments. a long-term strategy for eliminating gender-based discrimination and ensuring long-term sustainable cultural change must be explored.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on violations of human rights, including religious freedoms, in burkina faso (2019/2980 ((rsp)) *.
author. – mr president, no one should be subjected to violence because of their religion or any other aspect of their identity, ethnicity, sexuality, political beliefs. no one, never. sadly in burkina faso such targeted violence has been increasing, with over 750 people killed this year and hundreds of thousands displaced, resulting in an unprecedented humanitarian emergency. but burkina faso has a long history of religious tolerance, something to be celebrated and supported to the utmost, and i’d like to pay tribute to all of those brave people in every community who are drawing on that tradition, working to resist any attempt to provoke inter-religious conflict, because human security is not bought with weapons. indeed, we’ve seen in burkina faso that the government strategy of executing suspects simply causes further radicalisation. the forces of law and order in burkina faso must always respect human rights if they want to create security rather than fear. but beyond this, human security means guaranteeing people’s right to a decent livelihood and basic services. extremism doesn’t grow in a vacuum, it grows where there is little hope. multiple pressures, including climate change, are contributing to the erosion of livelihoods in burkina faso and indeed eu agricultural policy is part of the problem, with subsidised milk powder eroding the foundations of the local dairy industry. so we must ensure that the european response to human rights abuses in burkina faso is coherent and rooted in a broad concept of human security and we must support all those working to resist extremism and help them to build peace through dialogue.
mr president, other colleagues have spoken about the situation in burkina faso and that it is known for its religious and cultural tolerance. i want to congratulate those colleagues and the country for that. these attacks are absolutely terrible, but we have to think about it in the context of a much broader agenda. first of all, i want to give my condolences for everyone who has died, to their families and friends and for the suffering that they have endured because of attacks. it doesn’t matter where in the world. i’m not just talking about burkina faso. as far as i am concerned, suffering violence is a virus that reaches dark and deep into our countries, into our democracies and into our very hearts, and that’s something that we have to try and stop at all cost. so what do i mean by that? i think no country is immune from attacks and we have to think very carefully about what we do in the africa—eu strategy that is coming up and how we address the situation. my view is that we need to show solidarity, cooperation and friendship, and of course funding, but positive rather than negative steps to make sure that we are one world and one human race, not divided.
author. – madam president, there’s nothing more integral to democracy than free speech, and nothing more important to europe’s security than democracy in europe and around europe. our largest neighbour has taken another step that causes concern. russia will require journalists, bloggers and others who share news to label themselves ‘foreign agents’ on pain of criminal punishment. the term is clearly pejorative and intended to make people say, ‘don’t believe me’, and will be used against those who criticise the government. this law must go. we wish for friendship, not hostility, with russia, but we see in russia a regime that stifles criticism and without the frequent change of who is in power that characterises democracy. we have learned that states that suppress free speech become a danger to their own people and to their neighbours. we wish sincerely to cut back the jungle of mutual suspicion. on behalf of the renew group, i say please let us have more free speech, not less.
madam president, yesterday this house awarded the sakharov prize to ilham tohti and welcomed two distinguished runners-up for that prize. today, we register concern about russia’s new ‘foreign agent’ law, which threatens journalists and ngos. these neatly illustrate two complementary halves of a commitment to defending those who fight for freedom of thought in countries not fortunate enough to belong to this alliance of free nations. i have been honoured to play a small part in this work, at a time when freedom of thought and expression grows more precious the more intensely it is threatened. yesterday, i also noted the unanimous absence of the brexit plc members from the sakharov ceremony. colleagues will also be aware that boris johnson has found new ways to delay releasing the report on russian interference in uk elections. i say no more. (applause)
madam president, it’s right to condemn russia’s law dubbing independent bloggers and journalists as foreign agents. it’s a scary and dangerous threat to media freedom and whips up xenophobia in russia. however, i’ve listened to so many debates in this chamber that also cheaply blames foreign interference for everything, and there’s a danger of the pot calling the kettle black. if the eu wants the moral authority to criticise russia, then it better clean up your own house first. how many times in this chamber have meps, commissioners and motions labelled people who don’t conform to the eu’s agenda as foreign agents of putin or insinuate that it was russian bots that controlled the voting habits of the public, for example in the uk’s referendum. and what’s your answer? always censorship and bans. and all those fashionable accusations of foreign collusion can amount to whipping up anti-foreign xenophobia in our own nation states. it also strips our own voters of their agency, as though they can’t make their own mind up unless it was the russians what did it. it prevents self-reflection on the reasons for popular discontent, instead lazily blaming foreign subversion. we should be relentless in criticising putin’s iron grip over the russian people and these attacks on democracy and freedom. but sadly, the eu itself shows too little regard for press freedom and popular democracy, instead scapegoating your own failures on foreigners. beware, look to your own house.
madam president, i voted for the resolution condemning the violent crackdown in iran. i think i join with my mep colleagues in absolutely deploring the deaths that have been created there and also the imprisonment of political prisoners like nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who should be freed immediately. but i would say this: gestures like this resolution will only go so far. there’s nothing better that my mep colleagues really like than virtue-signalling about the us and particularly president trump. but america is the only nation that has the power, the resource and the relationships to help us achieve what we want to achieve through this resolution. so going forwards, i would respectfully ask my colleagues to respect what has been europe’s greatest protector and ally for many, many years, and if we want to make a difference in tehran, we need to start in washington.
