mr president, on behalf of my political group, i too would like to join my colleagues in speaking out against the death of the mayor of gdansk and the murder of the italian journalist a few weeks ago in strasbourg. i think that, regardless of our political differences, all the wings of the european parliament must be united in defending democracy, tolerance, the rule of law, pluralism and against hatred, violence and racism.
madam president, ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health is a key objective of the european union. this means taking measures and, above all, applying the precautionary principle, which, as we know, is a fundamental principle of the european union and is provided for in article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in addition, there must be transparency in the adoption of measures, the study must be carried out by an independent authority, decisions must not be taken which are essentially in the interests of the chemical industry. besides, we had the glyphosate scandal. we have a decision of the citizens of the european union, who have acted on a european initiative. but i would like to raise a serious point, commissioner, mr andriukaitis: there are imports of agricultural products from turkey. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. so what will happen to imports of turkish agricultural products grown in turkey with banned pesticides and yet imported into the european union, imported into greece and dangerous to the health of citizens? i want to see action on this.
madam president, the opening up of the market is bound to lead to problems. it will lead to unfair competition, it will lead to the closure of small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, of the freelancers who are currently operating road transport enterprises, especially in greece. this will mainly help the large firms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. there's a problem with the fees. we must have a much greener approach, so it is better to strengthen rail transport. he needs driver training. i think that specific measures, like the percentage of cars that can be used or the credit life are decisive. i would point out that in greece what is happening is that we have hundreds of bulgarian trucks coming into greece and doing mainly internal transport. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views expressed by the honourable member.
madam president, what does it look like we're doing here today, a revolution? wouldn't you say? and yet, the first revolutionary thing anyone can do is always to proclaim loudly what is happening. it was rosa luxemburg who said it. today's report speaks loudly of a reality that most people do not imagine is true in the european parliament: inequality! how many seats in the european parliament are held by women? just 36% of the time! and not to mention gender that's not even represented. we urgently need balanced representation of candidates in elections and high office, education and awareness of impartial and non-stereotypical behaviour towards women and the lgbt community.
your honor, god created man and woman in his own image and likeness. we did not wait for outsiders to preach to us the equality that ancient greek literature and greek orthodox christianity have taught for millennia. it is a paradox that the bureaucrats in brussels, who are so concerned about diversity, are trying to convince us of the absolute equality and elimination of all natural differences. fundamental rights and basic rules of morality are being used as a vehicle for political exploitation to promote a particular rhetoric. yes to equality, not the annihilation or abolition of the two sexes. yes to equal opportunities, no to institutional discrimination and the codified acceptance of racism and sexism. yes to meritocracy, no to extra favouritism for a select few. the formal achievement of objectives and the procedural fulfilment of criteria is not progress. we insist on making real progress, on eliminating exploitation, abuse and sexual harassment through sensible and effective action.
madam president, first of all we must say that gender equality is a social issue and that social policies are therefore needed to achieve gender equality. of course, there are also ideological beliefs and stereotypes that must also be addressed. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i shall stick to the question of ballots in the run-up to the european elections. in greece, it is stipulated that at least one third of the candidates must be of one of the two sexes. this means that there is a possibility of more representation. the report does, however, contain a proposal for a list which says that the order of the two sexes should be alternated. i would say that the list is undemocratic behaviour and undemocratic regulation. it is right to have at least a third of the representation of either sex or even 50%, but from then on they will elect on the basis of a system of cross-preference whoever the voters themselves prefer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, in the last century, gender equality has become a reality and women have taken their rightful place not only in the field of work but also in the field of politics, as well as in the field of every other social activity. many women, even today, have held and continue to hold with great success high-level positions in enterprises, various organizations and other bodies. i would also remind you that many women have been and are still prime ministers and presidents of their countries. so, then, equality exists. as far as the european parliament is concerned, we have equality here too, because 55% of the staff are women, and as far as the issue of women's representation at the top levels of the hierarchy, both administrative and political, of the european parliament is concerned, we must not treat the issue as a question of quotas and statistics but as a question of merit. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. if we do not see this in the light i have just mentioned, then the whole affair will simply be an expression of unsatisfied desire.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is certainly playing an important role, and this shows that investment in the knowledge economy is very important. of course, we must be careful not to run out of budget. we know the procedures and the whole experiment are not easy. we know that there are often many problems, but on the basis that we can really persevere with this programme and, above all, in a way that does not escape economically but at the same time contributes to the development of the technology itself, it will be something of particular importance. in this context, i would say that for some aspects of this programme funding could also be given to greek research centres and universities so that they too can contribute to this joint effort.
madam president, first of all i would like to point out that the reform of the public administration of the member states is a matter for the member states themselves and the european union has no competence in this area. i say this because the troika for eight years in greece has been imposing violent reforms on the public sector, intervening in areas where it had no jurisdiction and all this by blackmailing the greek government into not giving loans. in relation, of course, to the 9 billion which the european union is giving for public sector reform, i think that these should be used in the best possible way, not be used as an excuse for the european union and, in particular, brussels to intervene with its own choices, to put great emphasis, in particular, on the use of new technologies, to include not only central administration but also local government, to have an important role for national parliaments and to have an exchange of best practices.
madam president, freedom of religion and freedom of belief must be protected both inside and outside the european union. this means that the various financial instruments available from the european union, such as the european development fund, the development cooperation mechanism, the pre-accession assistance mechanism, must be made conditional on the fact that the states outside the european union which receive these funds will respect the principle of freedom of religion and freedom of belief. this is not the case in albania, where the rights of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus are suppressed, where they are not allowed to exercise their religious duties, where churches are demolished, such as the church of st. athanasius. it means that the european union must stop all funding to albania until it respects the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus.
madam president, those who claim that history is repeating itself should feel justified. eighteen centuries after the end of the persecution of christians, it is sadly being repeated in modern times by various states in the middle east, asia and africa. christians are persecuted for their faith, and more than 215 million have suffered all kinds of humiliation and persecution. even today, sadly, there are women and girls who suffer sexually for their faith in jesus christ. in greece, where 95% of the population are orthodox christians, there have been more than 556 incidents of attacks against religious places, i.e. places of prayer. the european union must put a stop to this phenomenon, not funding countries which suppress religious freedom and not accepting countries such as albania, which is a human rights violator, as members.
madam president, tax policies affect the income of citizens and of course they also affect gender equality as women are much more vulnerable in the economic sector. the first thing we need to see is that we need to stop aggressive tax planning because this is the way that the various multinationals do not pay taxes where they make their profits but in tax havens. the second issue is overtaxation, and this is particularly true of greece. huge tax rates and tax looting on the part of the troika in order for greece to achieve the famous surpluses. that is, to give 3% of greek gdp to the lenders every year until 2022. in addition, an increased value added tax on basic foodstuffs, especially on the aegean islands which are far away from mainland greece. the result is that poverty and social exclusion are actually being reinforced, and much more so the social exclusion of women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you for placing the issue of gender equality and taxation on parliament’s agenda. as was mentioned many times, taxation is a key element of public policy and is central to securing an efficient and stable economy in a fair and inclusive society. fairer taxation in the single market has been at the core of the commission’s mandate. also, gender equality is one of the fundamental values and objectives of the european union. the current strategic engagement for gender equality includes a strong dimension aimed at mainstreaming gender policies throughout other union policies, including taxation, without calling into question sovereignty and subsidiarity in this sphere. parliament’s recommendations on how to take the gender perspective into account in taxation matters will contribute to modern tax policies capable of responding to the common challenges of an increasingly integrated economy with a clear social dimension. the importance of tax disincentives has been highlighted, especially in the commission’s communication on work-life balance which was adopted in april 2017. as set out in the communication, the commission has included the issue in the annual tax policy survey and considered it in the context of the analysis of labour taxation and its impact on inclusive growth. supporting gender equality is an important element of the european semester tool which is discussed in depth in many country reports. several member states received country-specific recommendations to tackle gender gaps in terms of employment rate and pay and pension levels. this also covers addressing disincentives for second earners, usually women, to work or to work full time, including through taxation. this is currently identified as a challenge under the european semester, notably for germany and belgium, to be specific. taxation has furthermore a role to play in supporting gender equality, for example as a funding source of essential public services. in that context, we appreciate the support of parliament. direct tax policies cannot be based on the belief that households always pool and share their funds equally. on the other hand, indirect taxation depends on consumption patterns. it cannot be the aim of vat or excise duties to encourage or discourage the consumption of specific products just because they are consumed more by either women or men. female hygienic products are obviously an exception. they are only consumed by women and they are a necessity. therefore, member states have the possibility to apply a reduced vat rate to them, as they can do for food or care services. that being said, the gender gap is often caused by a lack of adequate care services as well as working time arrangements or family leave, which allow those with care responsibilities to combine work with private life. also, it is important to ensure an equal sharing of care responsibilities between men and women. therefore, more needs to be done beyond tax policies to tackle gender equality. a comprehensive approach is needed based on a combination of legislative and non-legislative measures, and this is the approach of the commission, for instance in our work-life balance package and the strategic engagement for gender equality. let me conclude by emphasising that the commission in its actions remains committed to promoting equal economic independence for women and men, closing the gender pay gap, which is still quite high in several member states, advancing gender balance in decision-making and gender-based violence and promoting gender equality beyond the eu. taxation is one of the important areas for achieving this.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european parliament, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. the european union is obviously in competition with the united states, china and japan, which are moving faster towards autonomous driving. on the other hand, we must bear in mind that there are also very significant collateral losses, mainly social, mainly in the field of employment. all of this needs to be taken into account in order to provide social support for those who, as technology develops in the field of autonomous driving, may lose their jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping industry is not compromised. so yes to technological progress, yes to progress, but in a way that is safe and socially just.
madam president, the rapid development in the fields of robotics and artificial intelligence gives us the ability and the possibility to exploit and implement a vision that has existed from the past regarding the automation of movement. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but beyond that, there are also problems, difficulties and risks to be addressed, such as safety in driving, cybersecurity, security and protection of personal data, as well as the possibility of controlling people's private lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union must therefore implement and develop a comprehensive programme of automation.
madam president, chancellor merkel's visit to athens has provoked the greek people both by her refusal to pay german reparations and by her pressure to implement the debased prespa agreement, an agreement which sells out the name of our macedonia and our history and which reinforces intolerance and deliberate redemptionism. the greek people cannot tolerate humiliation and are reacting en masse as they see mr tsipras methodically forming a rotten parliamentary majority in order to obtain a vote of confidence and ratify the prespes agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he is considering ratifying the prespa agreement with various political parties and 151 mps, whereas according to the constitution 180 votes are required for ratification as this agreement grants sovereign rights to the skopjeans. but mr tsipras is planning without the greek people who will unitedly send a decisive message en masse, peacefully and democratically at the rally for the constitution on sunday 20 january.
madam president, the european union, although it was aware that the countries of entry, spain, italy and greece, did not have the necessary facilities, nevertheless tolerated the long-term stay in these countries, and in particular in greece, of hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants seeking asylum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, now that things have reached the impasse, the european union is trying to convince us that it will solve the problem by proposing some reforms to the asylum institution and, in particular, to the dublin treaty, which is outdated. but these reforms will not succeed, and they will not succeed simply because, as things stand, no state is going to implement them and they will remain a blank slate. because which state will actually be responsible for examining the asylum application? but the state of entry. how will the secondary movement of these people within the european union be restricted? but of course by staying in the state of entry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in greece is not so bad as it is in the community. the european union must therefore put aside its hypocrisy and its impulsiveness and let the member states protect their borders and work together to solve this problem.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to speak truthfully. the commission has made a very important effort and we, as parliament, have taken decisive decisions. the fact that the dublin proposal, which was perfectly balanced, remains an open question for the council, however, shows the responsibilities of the governments of certain member states. we must prove in the coming elections - there is enough time - that solidarity and equal sharing of responsibility is an obligation for all member states, because the fact that we are experiencing an inefficiency in the management of the crucial issue - without responsibility, i repeat, of the commission or parliament - is undoubtedly throwing water on the mill of populism. the next challenge we face is to prove that democracy can defeat populism in the european union. i come from greece, which you all know was the first gateway because of its geographical location, and the dramatic flows of 2015 were regulated very significantly, but the problem is always there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
madam president, four years after the outbreak of the migration crisis, we are still arguing about how many refugees and migrants each state will accept on its territory, not to make them citizens, but to consider whether they are entitled to asylum. it is a shame for the presidency and the council to tell us that the problem is secondary flows and that solidarity is not the fate of desperate people. what is solidarity, madam president? giving money to build camps? secondary flows will continue as long as the door is closed and we don't stop the wars. it is very bad to hear the phrase "illegal refugees and immigrants". people can't be outlaws. war is illegal and arms trade is illegal and we don't even discuss these things. how many more children and women must die before we can stop the wars?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr kurz, i'm sorry to disappoint you. i don't subscribe to the climate of self-congratulation and self-praise. i think it is a disgrace for the european union that austria, as the president of the european union, refused to sign the un convention on migration in marrakesh. a treaty signed by 150 countries from all over the world, moderate, balanced, in which you had a hand. i would like to ask you to answer your second question: why did you embarrass the european union as president by refusing to sign this document? i am not the only one to say this on behalf of the european left. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also done nothing for the european social pillar, nothing substantial to promote the dublin reform package, which we have long since agreed on, the european parliament and the commission. you're stalling and blocking it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the taxation of the internet giants, nothing specific. for the multiannual financial framework, your job was to speed up the convergence so that we could have an agreement before the european elections, because delaying decisions on this issue is damaging to the european economy. i am very much afraid that your co-government with a far-right party, which was founded by nazi sympathizers in the second world war, is having a decisive effect on you, and that is why i think it is very worrying that such a right-wing-far-right alliance could also be created at european level after the european elections. because i've been so critical of you, i'm gonna close with a positive note. i think it is positive that you and the council and the commission and all the wings of the european parliament unanimously support the prespes agreement. it is a positive agreement for greece, a positive agreement for north macedonia, a positive agreement for the balkans, a positive agreement for the whole of europe. it is one of the good news we have, unfortunately few at the moment, and i would like to assure you that in the coming days the greek government, the tsipras government, is determined to ratify the prespes agreement in the athens parliament despite the petty, demagogic reaction of the new democracy and pasok parties, which, unlike the political groups of the epp and the socialists, are opposed and refuse to ratify the prespes agreement.
in writing. six months of austrian eu presidency has shown that a far-right government has pushed forward the eu's anti-worker strategy just as liberal and social democratic governments are pushing it. with the abortion law for 12 hours a day, 60 hours a week, work until you finally fall down based on the eu directives. the same is true of orbán's hungary with the "slave law", salvini's italy with the law-blackmailing the unemployed to keep them on unemployment benefits. the austrian government, with the agreement of all governments, has further intensified the militarization of the eu and the repression and deportations of uprooted refugees and migrants. what's the conclusion? whatever they call bourgeois governments, "progressive", "conservative" or "far-right", they all worship the same god: the profitability of their bourgeois classes, which is incompatible with workers' and popular rights and their crushing presupposes strong communist parties fighting for the abolition of capitalist exploitation and liberation from imperialist organizations, as the only force that can make a real difference.
mr president, madam prime minister of romania, i will refer to the issue of immigration, because we are again in the same play as spectators, with the council being unable to assume its responsibilities, as certain member states continue 'business as usual' and refuse to change dublin iii which has turned greece and italy into repositories of souls. greece can no longer tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the aegean islands have been swamped by migrants and increased inflows, which now include land on evros. the famous solidarity of the european union remains a blank slate. so the relocation must be carried out. it was only thirty percent executed. i propose to change the asylum system, to abolish dublin iii and the first-member state regulation, to allocate asylum applications and refugees and migrants among member states on the basis of area, population and gdp. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. we are waiting for your presidency to take action.
mr president, dear madam prime minister, it's a pleasure to see you here again. in 2018, you participated as an mep in the event i organised with two colleagues from your political group, mr pirinski from bulgaria and ms grapini from romania, to look for new ways of working together in the balkans. i hope that you will now do your utmost to promote cooperation in the balkans. we are concerned, however, when we hear that romania is a very bad example in terms of labour relations, wages, social security and rights. is that so ? you have worked with us for four years and you know the priorities of the european parliament: the social pillar, human rights, the revision of the common european asylum system. he should be your priority too. i wish you a good presidency and all the best.
mr president, despite the triumphal songs about the european union economy, for example the alleged reduction of unemployment by the generalization of parttime work, you cannot hide your fears. anemic growth, slowdown, imbalance, protectionism, trade wars that often turn fierce with thousands of victims, brexit, political turmoil and fear of a new and worse crisis. this is the european union and capitalism. you make recommendations and threats: continuation of anti-people reforms, tax exemptions for capital, tax hunting for the people, wages at will and capitalist profits, abolition of collective agreements, survival on meager benefits and banks that you control by laying off, for example in greece at least fifteen thousand bank employees in the next two years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the false dilemma of "conservation or progress" is meant to hide the unified strategic assembly of the far right, conservatives, social democrats, neo-leftists like tsipras who congratulate merkel and trump. the difference is in the organized struggle of the people and the strengthening of the communists to overthrow this barbarity.
mr president, mr draghi, behind your own institutional stature, the real culprits in this shadow theatre are your commissioners and those national leaders who - surrendered to promises, ephemeral profit and temporarily cheap money - surrendered sovereign rights, mortgaged citizens' property and sold off national savings. you're a central banker who controls the money supply but isn't in charge of stimulating demand. responsible for price stability but not for the strength of the economy, maximising healthy employment and boosting wages and purchasing power. you offered everything for a union on demand and for the exclusive benefit of germany and her satellites. for a germany that, since 2008, has saved, thanks to your low interest rate lending, 368 billion euros. your every act demonstrates the distortions of the structure due to political and biased decisions: a central bank of an imperfect union with limited liabilities and no mandates.
mr president, mr draghi, the eurozone needs immediate changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ecb must be transformed into the lender of last resort for the member states and the european system of central banks must be decentralized, the member states must regain their monetary sovereignty, and the central banks of the member states must be able to conduct an independent monetary policy up to the amount corresponding to their percentage share in the capital of the ecb. the ecb must stop serving german europe, a europe in which germany is accumulating trade surpluses and the european south is accumulating deficits and debts. finally, mr draghi, the ecb and you personally must make a big apology to the impoverished greek people, to whom you imposed memoranda as troika to save the foreign banks, as mr dijsselbloem himself has admitted.
mr president, we are discussing the banking union, in which the european central bank plays an important role because it has taken over the supervision of the systemic banks. and yet mr draghi, who was here, has left. the commission has not been able to take part in this debate to hear the european parliament's observations, although it has said that it is interested in being consulted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and yet he, as the european central bank, is pressuring the banks in greece to sell off the red loans, to sell them to the crows at a price which, of course, is very cheap and then the crows will take over the homes of the greeks, while there is a solution to this issue. there is a solution, which we have proposed: the creation of a borrowers' rescue fund so that the greeks do not lose their homes. unfortunately, mr draghi did not stay here to listen to our concerns and to be able to give us specific directions. he's made his decisions on the red loan issues, too.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, as commissioner katainen has said, we need to increase investment. we are still well behind the pre-crisis level of investment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new proposal, and it is a new proposal. i do, however, see some negatives and some dangers. there is a risk that investeu will take funds out of the cohesion fund and that will be unacceptable when we already have a reduction in cohesion funds in the commission proposal for the new multiannual financial framework. the second danger is that the real smes will be left behind. we will insist on more investment and particularly in those areas which have the greatest disinvestment and in those areas which have suffered the most from the recession.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european investment bank is a very good one. firstly, the outermost regions, and in particular the aegean islands, must be supported. secondly, to support the peripheries and not the centre of the eurozone's hard core. thirdly, support for small and mediumsized enterprises. these are the conditions for us to be able to take a different direction. the areas we must deal with are certainly culture, environmental protection, and the promotion of employment. the money must not be used to further militarize the european union and, above all, we must not follow the example of the juncker plan because in greece the money that came in on the spot was used to buy the greek regional airports by fraport and, secondly, to finance cosmote, which is a german company. let the money come to greece to support greek businesses, not multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, we are discussing the european union's trade agreements with the latin american countries and association agreements, but it is a given that these countries must respect certain standards, certain clauses. the first is environmental protection. secondly, to ensure the protection of human rights. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. these are matters which must be taken seriously. the european union must also insist that the indigenous peoples be protected, that their land not be taken away, that there be a limit to the unfairness of multinational companies, and of course that we send a message of protection and gender equality. it is clear from the views expressed that there are also negative effects on the european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, we are discussing the fund for the dealing with the consequences of globalisation. i think he's proven that he's really contributed, he's supported the workers in a phase where we've had mass layoffs. i would say, of course, that the greek case has not been exploited to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, it is a fund which can support the regions, support small and mediumsized enterprises, enable them to make the transition, and in this context i believe it should now also deal with the consequences of automation. the measures proposed, in so far as they are purely aimed at supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and, in particular, at supporting the unemployed themselves, are therefore very positive. the fact that the threshold has to be lowered to 200 workers from the previous 500 also seems to me to be very important. let us consider reaching the threshold of 150 workers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. either we want a social europe or we don't. the budget of the european union is being reduced in its entirety for the next financial period and so is spending on social issues. at a time when we have new needs, an ageing population, our youth unemployed, migration, rampant poverty. europe must finally have a social face, or it will be destroyed by the just indignation of its people. we need specific objectives for social issues and these objectives must be as binding as economic ones.
mr president, globalisation, austerity and forced budgetary adjustment have created millions of poor and unemployed people, and it is clear that the european social fund+ with the actions it has to undertake can operate at different levels. first of all, to tackle child poverty, because child poverty has reached very high levels. the commission's proposal is to support the longterm unemployed, to support our young people who are looking for work and, at the same time, to provide them with the tools for training and retraining so that they can cope in the new globalised environment. in addition, i think that disabled people also need the support of the european social fund, which can be extended to many levels, including health and employment-related measures.
madam president, our british friends are in a state of political confusion as far as brexit is concerned. we should respond with a creative approach. first, we should offer the british more time to make up their minds. second, if they decide against a hard brexit and are reconciled with the idea of participating in the customs union, or even in the single market, we should accommodate them. after all, we too made serious mistakes, which led the british people to vote in favour of brexit. the european union badly needs the united kingdom and it seems to me that it becomes obvious every day that the united kingdom also needs the european union.
mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the house. i have some questions to ask you. what practical measures will you take to ensure that your country, spain, as well as italy and my country, greece, cease to be places of permanent residence for illegal immigrants? you said you were in favour of the creation of a european army. the european union's military capabilities must be increased by means of a european enemy, which will threaten europe. can you name this enemy and which countries are threatened? the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in cyprus and the situation in the former yugoslavia. you also said that the european union must be able to intervene beyond its borders. is this the europe of the future you envision? the role of a world policeman? you also said that the principle of unanimity should be abolished. but if this principle is abolished, then the power of the states, and especially of the small states, will be reduced. can you imagine your country being affected by its interests, being in a minority position, and not being able to defend those interests?
mr president, the globalisation fund has the potential to make a real contribution to supporting employment. because in a phase where globalisation has led to huge unemployment, to the outsourcing of businesses and to the damage to small and medium-sized enterprises, i believe that the globalisation fund can support and has supported the effort so that the unemployed can both train and of course receive financial support. unfortunately, the funds of this fund, which could have really helped to alleviate some of the impoverishment of the greek people caused by the memoranda over the years, have not yet been used in greece. the new regulation will also provide for further support in relation to unemployment caused by both automation and new technologies.
mr president, austerity and violent budgetary adjustment have filled europe with armies of unemployed and millions of poor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, the funds of the european social fund+ should be used by the regions, by the countries of the european south, should really go to supporting training and education, should support the longterm unemployed in particular, should also support the poverty which is affecting the european union, and should be used to undertake a great many actions to strengthen the social state. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on the environment, and more.
mr president, the regional development fund, as we know, supports the regions and, of course, the interreg programme has proved very important in strengthening cross-border relations and in strengthening economic relations between neighbouring member states. at the same time, however, neighbourhood can sometimes be negative for certain economies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. so interreg must now be used to support those economies which are facing unfair competition from neighbouring countries and to help countries like greece, in order to support the economies, to support businesses which are facing unfair competition because of their neighbourhood with bulgaria, which is really dumping taxation with very cheap and low vat and income taxation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate we are having today is misleading and fails to address the contemporary problems and challenges of youth and education. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. the neoliberal policies of the european union have led to the dismantling and fragmentation of education by proposing privatisation as a panacea based on market demands. public spending cuts and underfunding have devalued education systems and degraded their quality. the debate today is directly linked to this quality, content and contribution of education, which, however, in the name of the theory as it has been developed, of the two extremes, is trying to disorient, rewrite history and justify, in my view, the measures taken in certain countries against the communist and leftist parties. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. what is the historical lesson we are giving and the restoration of historical memory? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the education system in greece is not undermined by the government's austerity measures, by cutting costs and by distorting qualifications. these destructive designs serve neither the needs of education nor our societies. the militant attitude of students and teachers in this period, facing authoritarian violence, shows the way for a universal education and teachers with dignity and labor rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about totalitarianism. your aim is obvious: to equate communism with the monster of fascism, the original child of capitalist barbarity, the one you all defend. the historical truth, the red flag in the reichstag, is a living testimony to who exterminated nazism, who is still today feeding the far right, nationalism and the fascists. it is a proof of what is happening today in poland, hungary and the baltic states, with the persecution and banning of communist parties, while honours are being awarded to nazi collaborators with the support of the european union. no matter how many institutions, how many lies in schoolbooks and how many expensive campaigns you fund, history was written and is being written by the people in their struggle against the rotten exploitative system. socialism's achievements in education, health and the elimination of unemployment are historic. the european union and capitalism are not a one-way street. the peoples can, with their own power in their own countries, fight for a europe of socialism.
mr president, apart from the many absurdities in this report, there is one extremely dangerous proposition. i read it to you in its own words: 'preventing any erosion of the rule of law, which is not the unconditional application of laws, but the democratic acceptance of being subject to laws'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. who sets the terms under which the laws will be applied? i hope the author of the report does not think that the european institutions or the non-governmental organizations have such power. in addition, there is much talk about the rights of illegal immigrants and minorities. first, let's be clear that migration is not a human right. instead, states have the right to decide whether anyone can cross their borders. i am also opposed to any positive discrimination against minorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of minorities are respected. finally, i would remind you that this house has never condemned any of the hundreds of attacks against nationalists. as the father of a child murdered by leftist terrorists, i have the right to call you hypocrites.
mr president, although the european union is based on, among other values, respect for fundamental rights, many of its member states are violating these rights. you could say this is the dark side of the moon. the european union is largely responsible for this situation, however, because it is selectively dealing with these violations. for example, while tolerating some states that violate fundamental rights with impunity, it punishes some other states. while it is rightly concerned about the freedom of justice, it has nevertheless tolerated the imprisonment of catalan mps for political reasons and did not react when this principle was violated in greece in order to prosecute the leader and mps of greece's third largest political party, golden dawn. it defends freedom of speech but at the same time criminalizes the expression of opposing views by labeling them racist, xenophobic and homophobic. the european union must therefore rid itself of this hypocrisy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but the biggest problem is that the government owes money, because the government is the one that requires taxpayers to pay, and when they don't pay or have difficulty paying taxes - like the greeks who are impoverished by the memoranda - then the state makes seizures. he's seizing their accounts, he's seizing their property. but to this state, the greek state currently owes, as of december 2018, one billion euros to the private sector. do you know why he owes them? because he keeps the money in order to pay off the creditors, to create the famous primary surplus. the commission is aware of this, but it prefers that the greek state should pay the borrowers rather than the greek state paying the private companies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the left group will not vote in favour of the report, it will vote against it. the reason is exactly the same as that given by mr eickhout of the green group. we have made very specific proposals, mr langen, which you almost denounce, to strengthen the fight against poverty, to tackle climate change, to increase transparency, to combat tax fraud. the amendments we tabled were not accepted because the rapporteur, who is a member of the enf group, preferred to form a majority with the ecr group and the ppe group alone. it's her right. but, mr hoyer and mr katainen, i think that this sense of self-sufficiency in congratulating one another does not help the european investment bank to become better. the european investment bank has done a good job, but it needs to do a better job. why is the european union still lagging behind in terms of investment and why should europe help to develop investment beyond its borders? i 'll read you a few words: the european investment bank did not have clear measurable objectives from which to derive its purpose. those aren't my words. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr. langen, is he a communist too? green ? left ? the european court of auditors says so. shouldn't we take them into account?
madam president, mr hoyer, i will repeat what i have said to you another time. the european investment bank, as far as greece is concerned, has become the main financier of foreign companies in order to literally grab greek public property. i am referring to fraport, a company which had to pay 1.2 billion euros to buy 14 regional airports. of the 1.2 billion, 968 million are in loans. you, as the european investment bank, gave fraport eur 280 million to invest in airports. why didn't you give this money earlier to the company that ran these airports, to the state to make these investments? the commission also notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections. alpha bank took a 100 million euro loan from you. so, what are you doing? you fund foreign companies to grab greek public property? let these companies invest. not for free. not free investors.
madam president, mr hoyer, the proverb says that silence is golden. you haven't answered me about fraport that i told you about earlier. you know, foreign investors have to bring hot money to be investors, not use european funds to make so-called investments and even grab public property. the second case: athens international airport. the international investors took from you, from the eib, 250 million euros to be able to find the money to extend the contract for 20 years. tap: the french 1.5 billion euros you gave to the multinationals, to bp. and because mr. katainen failed to protect you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. greece is also a member of the efsi and a champion. you know why ? eur 280 million to fraport, eur 150 million to cosmote, that is to say deutsche bank, eur 350 million to a french multinational which bought desfa, the gas company, eur 700 million from the efsi for tap. that's why greece is the champion. because the money came and went to the corporations. that's the situation. we should tell the truth.
mr president, article 7 defines the protection of the rule of law and, of course, of the values of the european union, but the functioning of article 7 is within the framework of the functioning of the treaty itself, that is to say, the application of article 7 must respect the competences of the european union. this article will therefore operate in the area where there is european union competence and not outside it. of course, we all want fraud to be punished, and that's a given. but article 7 and the mechanism proposed as a political instrument for intervention in the internal affairs of states should not be used and thus be the expression of a neo-colonial policy. there's also bilingualism. when the troika and the memorandum governments in greece were violating the rule of law - and we have repeatedly denounced this here in the european parliament - we did not see any action taken. on the contrary, we were told that the implementation of the memoranda, although it violated fundamental rights, was legal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the 'fiscalis' programme for cooperation in the field of taxation (com (2018) 0443 - c8-0260/2018 - 2018/0233 (cod)) (a8-0421/2018)
mr president, tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud are of course on the agenda, resulting in billions of euros being lost from the public purse. of course, there are the systems we've seen, the carrousel, there's the fraud. but the european union was late because it tolerated and did not go on to crack down on tax fraud, we saw the falciani list, we did not see any significant results, it tolerated the tax rulings with special tax regulation in luxembourg and the netherlands. we must therefore take concrete decisions and change the legislation. it is the duty of every multinational to pay taxes where it makes its profits. we must close the various loopholes, because that is how tax evasion is done. and, of course, to implement this programme, to exchange good practice on the part of the tax authorities, to take measures to combat fraud, but also to change the legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs bodil valero, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the rights and values programme (com (2018) 0383 - c8-0234/2018 - 2018/0207 (cod)) (a8-0468/2018)
question with a blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for accepting my question, but i would like to ask you the following question: has the german people been made aware of this unacceptable and inhuman incident which offends our culture and our humanity? and if so, how does he react?
mr president, one billion euros from the programme will be given to support the union's values, 474 million euros to equality and rights, 500 million euros to citizens' activism. all this is aimed at empowering the citizens themselves. i believe that the best way of supporting citizens is first of all to create the conditions for work, because only then can there be dignity. the european union has given only six billion euros for the work on the well-known 'youth guarantee'. i see that the amount that will be allocated, two billion euros to ngos, will give many ngos the opportunity to make the famous 'party' as they did with the funds given for immigration. that's why there's a need for caution. i believe that the funds should go to universities, schools, municipalities, regions and, of course, be used to combat hatred against christians. let me point out that in 2017 there were 556 attacks in greece, 94% against the greek orthodox church. i therefore believe that this is a serious matter which must be included in this programme so that it is not unilateral.
mr president, at a time when all the countries of the european union are experiencing economic problems and their peoples are suffering, the leadership of the european union has decided to create and finance the rights and values programme. the report makes proposals for billions of euros to be allocated to promote and protect democracy, equality, the rule of law and to tackle all forms of violence. but one must point out to these enlightened minds of the european union that democracy, love of equality, values and respect for rights of all kinds are the result of conscience and intellectual cultivation and not the object of a speculative enterprise. as an elected representative of the greek people, i consider that i have no right to tolerate and consent to the implementation of this extravagant waste of european taxpayers' money by the european union, which has condemned my countrymen to austerity and misery. i would therefore not support the report and i would urge the same from women and from those who feel they have a responsibility to those who have honoured them with their vote.
mr president, i have studied the whole case and i am convinced that lithuania's demands are justified and that we should mainly maintain the funding ratio, that is to say 14% from lithuania. if we change this ratio, i am convinced that it can create a negative image of the european union in the region, but also in the whole country, and we really cannot afford that. i myself have noticed that the european union has been perceived in a relatively negative light in some post-communist countries recently, and i believe that the political dimension of the whole issue is more important than whether we give more or less than 200 million euros. so please, in the final decision, let's make it clear that the european union stands by its commitments in the ignalina case and that it does not change the rules of procedure for the removal of this power plant.
mr president, the dismantling of the ignalina nuclear power station is an important project because, as has been said, it concerns old reactors of the same type as those at chernobyl. the commission has already done this in slovakia. there is a procedure for the corresponding nuclear power station in bulgaria at kozlodoui, for which i read that the storage of radioactive materials will take place in bulgaria. the question is: where will the radioactive materials from the dismantling of the plant in lithuania be stored ? maybe in kosovo, or in skopje? we want an answer because it is also important where the radioactive waste will be stored. i would also like to say that i agree with mrs harms' comments on existing nuclear power stations. the nuclear power plant in akkuyu, turkey, is now dangerous and the european union must do something about it. we do not want to be here again after years and have the european union pay the cost of dismantling the nuclear power plant in akkuyu.
mr president, first of all, the subject we are discussing is very interesting, but of course we do not have the necessary participation. the integration is different at the level of the european union, because there is schengen, in which certain member states participate, or the eurozone. so, then, it is something we know. secondly, we have certain states which have been granted exemptions by special protocols at the level of primary community law, such as denmark, which is exempted from specific regulations, or ireland. i would therefore say that the arrangements for countries wishing to move forward are again institutionally provided for as differentiated integration and therefore it is now a matter of political choice which countries should take advantage of this and whether they want to take advantage of this issue to move forward with cooperation on social or environmental matters. i would say, however, that we should also consider the following: some countries, because of particular problems, such as greece, which has been in a memorandum all these years, cannot easily participate on equal terms with the rest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, differentiated integration is a vague, confusing and, for that reason, incomprehensible term with which certain states of the european union and certain circles within the european union are trying to conceal a dangerous objective they have set for the future of europe. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the other states will become pariahs, will be marginalized and, if allowed, will continue on their way. the whole situation reminds me of the famous phrase from orwell's animal farm that all animals are equal but some are more equal than others. to achieve this objective, the principle of unanimity in the decisionmaking of the european union must be abolished. in other words, the power of the states will be weakened and the small states, in particular, will not be able to defend their interests. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of the dictatorship of the west, which is a dictatorship that is not in a position to be a victim of the dictatorship of the west. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) ) )
answer to a question with a blue card. the european union is based on certain principles and values, as you know, and as we all know. some of these principles are the principle of equality, the principle of solidarity and the principle of cooperation. the european union is a union of nations, and it is a union of nations. the strongest states should not impose their will on the rest. we must find a way of understanding and working together. there are certain issues which are being dealt with in the light of the interests of the big and powerful states. this can't be happening. the small states must not be left on the sidelines.
mr president, the matter we are discussing is of particular importance. in 1993, i published a book entitled 'the european ombudsman', in which i had raised the issue of transparency and how the european ombudsman can make concrete interventions. so here we have a theater of the absurd. the council has two roles: it is an executive body, but it is also a legislative body. and as long as it is a legislative body, there must be transparency. we must know all the preparatory documents, we must know what each member state says in detail, we must know what each government votes. this is important for parliamentary control, because neither members of parliament nor national parliaments know what their government votes, much less the citizens who will then be asked to vote for or against that government or that party. so, the exhibition opens up certain avenues. the work of the european ombudsman is very important in order to finally have transparency in the council, as there is transparency in parliament, and also to have transparency in the eurogroup, because it is there that important decisions are taken that determine the economy and the policy of the entire european union.
mr. president, repression is on the agenda in sudan with the notorious national intelligence and security agency arresting, brutalizing, torturing activists, students, and those who dare to protest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although sudan is a rich country, in practice the people are fighting for a piece of bread and, of course, president al-bashir, who should normally be referred to the international criminal court, is trying to extend his term, because he thinks that is the only way to escape international criminal justice. it is therefore necessary to take measures, to impose sanctions, to make al-bashir and his entourage understand that they cannot apply islamic law, that they cannot expel dissidents, that they cannot expel christian populations, and we must, mrs malmström, have immediate measures and sanctions against the sudanese regime.
in writing. for a month now, mass workers' and popular mobilizations of millions of sudanese have been taking place against the country's anti-people regime because of the new wave of punctuality and shortages of bread, basic foodstuffs and fuel. these are met with harsh repression, including the use of live fire against demonstrators, and have resulted in the deaths of several dozen demonstrators, the injury and arrest of many hundreds. the major geopolitical interests of imperialist centres, including the eu, and the competition of monopolies in africa and the wider region of sudan are paying a heavy price for the peoples of the region who are fighting for their rights. the kke condemns the bloody repression of the anti-people regime in sudan. it expresses its solidarity with the sudanese communist party and the workers' and people's struggles for economic, social and democratic rights. he demands an end to the repression and the release of the prisoners.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, my condolences to the family of pavel adamovich, mayor of gdansk and defender of open borders for refugees, who was murdered during a charity concert! enemies of democracy do not exist only in poland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. do you know that, while this agreement was welcomed by all political groups in europe, the members of parliament who supported it were accused by some as traitors? posters were posted with their faces. there were attacks by hooded men with rocks and molotov cocktails in their homes while their children were inside. the people who organized the attack on the elected mps were far-right and extreme nationalists. the politics of hate and terror is the politics of those who hate democracy. the answer is one: education and democracy.
mr president, freedom of speech is imperative. the monopoly on the use of force is, by institution, exclusively held by the state. as commissioners, rulers must realize that their words and actions can lead citizens to extreme events when they provoke public sentiment. power is not exercised without limit or control. those who foster a climate of hatred, violence and division among citizens will inevitably be treated as equal members of society. as now in greece, where a treacherous, bidding government forbids the use of the term "macedonia". history is being falsified. folk songs and hymns are censored. no more parties. educators are persecuted. the right to freedom of speech and our centuries-old identification as greek macedonians are violently suppressed. they reap what they sow, and they'll see worse in the future. the ordinary greek patriots, whom tsipras slams at foreign leaders as populists and fascists, are not going to compromise with the unconstitutional, undemocratic and illegal prespes agreement. so don't expect even a greek to sympathize with political traitors. now they're feeding the citizen reaction. macedonia is greek land and is greek.
mr president, the european union accuses the hungarian government of violating the rule of law and human rights, while it tolerates other countries behaving in this way. the real reason why the european union is behaving this way is that hungary refuses to grant political asylum to migrants who are being prosecuted for criminal offences and to others who are controlled and directed by corrupt ngos. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. but the hungarian government protects the interests of the hungarian people. it is not like the greek government, which is yielding, accepting and bowing to pressure and has turned greece into a vast camp of unhappy migrants, who are neither granted political asylum nor accepted by any country nor deported. i would like to conclude by saying that this attitude towards hungary is the quintessential example of the hypocrisy of the european union, because while it behaves in this way in hungary, it refuses to follow in turkey. )
mr president, we denounce the brutal intervention of the united states, the european union, nato and the governments of latin america in the interior of venezuela and their attempt to impose a puppet president by means of a coup d'état. and there they threaten military intervention to further their dangerous plans, as they do everywhere internationally. we condemn the attitude of governments such as germany, spain and portugal. as for the greek government, it makes no mention of the united states' intervention in venezuela and claims that the european union is allegedly unable to have its own foreign policy, while it is the european union that does not recognize president maduro and provocatively threatens with ultimatums. only the venezuelan people have the responsibility to defend their interests and elect the leadership of their country. we express our solidarity with the venezuelan people, who are experiencing the capitalist crisis and exploitation. we support the communist party of venezuela in its fight for the rights of the working class, so that the people can live without exploitation and ... )
mr. president, since 1949, when the chinese civil war ended, china has considered taiwan as chinese territory, which should be returned to the country as hong kong and macau were returned. but because taiwan wants to be independent, there is constant friction between the two countries. the european union has good relations with both countries, mainly in trade and other fields. the european union must therefore look to its own political and economic interests in this conflict. when he thinks he should merge with china, he should support the doctrine of one china. but when it considers that its interests are served by cooperation with taiwan, it must cooperate with taiwan.
mr president, i think that the debate on the social integration of the roma today is particularly timely, if we remember that a few hours ago we paid tribute to the victims of the holocaust. we must not forget that a large number, at least one million roma, were put in nazi concentration camps and executed. i think that today's debate really does pay tribute, if you will, to those who have been victims of racism. but, of course, there are social prejudices against the roma. there are stereotypes and i think that's where we need to be headed. the european union must pay attention to education and training issues and, even more importantly, give the roma the opportunity to be integrated into society, to have access to education, health and drinking water. on the other hand, i would also like to appeal to the roma community itself to take up its own responsibilities, so that there can really be a much more serious integration of the roma into society.
mr president, i have repeatedly pointed out in this chamber that the rules of procedure restrict the exercise of the members' mandate. first of all, it limits the number of questions to five. secondly, with a recent change in the rules of procedure, a member cannot table amendments except in his own committee. if a member wishes to table amendments in another committee, he must find a colleague in the committee concerned. thirdly, there are now, as it seems, restrictions on the formation of political groups. because they say there should be a political kinship. who will judge the political kinship? it seems that the major political groups want to dissolve any new groups that are formed in the european parliament in the first place and, of course, to take the resources. these are very simple things. finally, the preventive control of questions must be stopped. we put questions and the bureau rejects them on the grounds that they are outside the commission's competence or that the commission has no competence. who's to judge? we as members of parliament will be asking the questions and if the commission considers that it has no competence it will say so. the bureau will not say that, mr president.
mr president, we have honoured here today, in the european parliament, the millions of victims of the holocaust murdered by nazism. we in greece do not forget the thousands of our compatriots who were executed by the nazi occupation troops in our country between 1941 and 1944. we do not forget the greeks who were murdered in nazi concentration camps. however, the greek relatives of the victims, who were executed by the german occupation troops, are still waiting for justice, as germany continues to refuse to pay german reparations. germany is refusing, even today, to pay its debts to greece. debts including: war reparations condemned by the paris peace conference in 1946, the forced occupation loan, compensation to relatives of victims executed by nazi occupation troops and the return of archaeological treasures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to pay the damages he owes. the greek people demand it. it's demanded by the relatives of the victims of nazism.
mr president, the police, repression and persecution are a necessary complement to the anti-people political government of syriza. now, we have fast-track trials for agitating farmers, as moral perpetrators, to take over the tractor road for their blockades. the terror of the people will not pass. small and medium-sized farmers are fighting to stay on their land, against the concentration of land in a few hands. they demand the abolition of all direct and indirect restrictions on agricultural and livestock production imposed by the common agricultural policy of the european union and the syriza government. they are opposed to new cuts, subsidies and subsidies. they are fighting for lower production costs - which, along with low manufacturer prices, are leading the peasantry to a dead end - for tax-free oil, cheap agricultural electricity and irrigation water, abolition of vat on agricultural equipment and supplies, immediate relief by compensation to those affected, reduction of insurance contributions, tax exemptions, increase of the confiscation limit and no confiscation of first, second homes and land. solidarity with the right of the small and medium-sized farmers to fight, so that their extermination and repression will not pass!
mr president, on this day, 23 years ago, a turkish military force landed on the greek island of mikri imia, bringing the two countries to the brink of war, and a greek helicopter crashed in the area, killing the three soldiers on board. this sad anniversary highlights the fact that, then as now, the european union lacks adequate common border security and a corresponding common defence infrastructure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an oxymoron to talk about a union and at the same time leave its member states alone and unprotected against external threats. the greek-turkish border in the aegean and the evros is also a euro-turkish border and the containment of turkish aggression must become a common concern of all member states within the framework of european integration.
mr president, the socialist, green and gue/ngl groups have nominated mr tsipras and mr zaef for the nobel peace prize for the disgraceful prespes agreement. it's a challenge! they consider it a historic achievement that nato has imposed an agreement which has replaced syriza, the so-called euro-nato left, which is strengthening nato in the bloodied and disintegrated balkans, cultivating altruism and nationalism and putting peoples at risk by dividing and ruling. it is a question of the european union's ability to act as a guarantor of peace and security. the peoples remember nato only for wars, interventions, bombings and border changes. those who set up fake progressive fronts against the right and the far right are congratulated by trump, merkel, nato, erdoğan, the austrian far right kurz, the ultra-reactionary macron. they are literally washing away imperialism! the 'patriarch' of italian capitalism, the owner of fiat, gianni agnelli, is justified because he said: the left sometimes does the job better than the right. with such leftists, what's the right to do?
mr president, in a society without equality, really, what harmony and what beauty can prevail? "what is the meaning of life?" wondered john milton. i've been wondering the same thing. the glass ceiling that blocks the careers of thousands of working women upends their lives. women with work experience, education and training are excluded from managerial positions, paid less, 'punished' if they have or want a family, and harassed in various ways. the proposal for a directive is certainly another opportunity to redress existing inequalities. but why is it taking so long to adopt? i ask the council: what initiatives will it take to tackle the glass ceiling in business? how does she intend to promote gender equality during the romanian presidency?
the under-representation of women in society, in key positions and in the economy is a social phenomenon and obviously this must change and of course women must also be represented on the boards of companies. but the social engineering that the european union is doing, i do not think it can succeed in this area, nor can it force companies to do otherwise. but the european union can do something else, and because mr juncker is here and is listening, i say this: the budget of the european union is €140 billion a year. the european investment bank has 70 billion. the european parliament has been given a budget of €2.5 trillion by mr draghi. i therefore say that no financing from community funds or loans should be made or bonds purchased from the european central bank if the companies in question do not have women on their boards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this way we give an answer and force the companies to come to what we want.
mr prime minister, the european union is facing major problems. the most important of these is the paternalistic approach which is becoming entrenched in many european governments and institutions. the union leaders act as if they possess the ultimate truth and try to impose their ideology on the citizens. many of the decisions of leaders are irreversible, creating a sense among citizens that democratic control through elections is useless. the prespa agreement is a typical and very recent example, and was welcomed by all the european leaders. the greek people have expressed their clear opposition, but the tsipras government has been indifferent to creating a fait accompli. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i would remind you and the other leaders of the union, and in particular mr tsipras, that your power comes from the people and is valid only as long as the people continue to approve it. but you will soon find that your disparaging of the european nations will awaken the citizens and make them think nationally.
prime minister of finland. – mr president, thank you very much for the speeches. i will briefly answer the questions i picked up from the speeches. first of all, thank you, jean—claude, thank you, jyrki, for your kind words and the same applies vice—versa. it has been pleasant to work with the commission. it’s true that it will be a very challenging period of time when our eu presidency starts. we are forming a new commission, there will be parliamentary elections and we will have our own elections before that. there will be multi-annual financial framework (mff) negotiations, brexit, the economic monetary union (emu), and so on. there will be big files on our table. jean—claude, you were also right on the arctic questions. this is absolutely a key part, including with regard to climate change. we are ready for the arctic summit in a few weeks if there are circumstances available to arrange that. jyrki katainen’s investment fund is an excellent example of how we can create jobs and we have also used this tool in finland. mr weber, congratulations on your nomination. the epp meeting in helsinki was very good for me, also because i met about ten colleagues at the same time in the meeting. i agree with you about the economic principles. the mff: i have now discussed with 17 colleagues already the situation regarding the mff and i’m sure that we will find a compromise during our presidency. climate change: i agree that we have to find a sustainable solution, including so that people can live with the solutions. i emphasise that new technology can do much more than we thought. i talked about the co2 capture from the air. there is a small university in lappeenranta and i saw the prototype. they captured co2 from the air and they made other products out of that. the low price of the solar energy is a key solution for that. think about what kind of possibilities this gives to africa and for cooperation with african countries. mr kofod, you have learned finnish in your group. i think that you have some finnish members there and there is a good education basis in your group. finland is the happiest country in the world, but i have to say, at the same time, that we are the best nation to hide it also, if you follow our domestic discussions. i also mentioned the social pillar in my speech. our priorities are gender equality. we have been leaders in women’s rights in finland by being the first country in the world to give full political rights to women. tax havens: i fully agree with what you say about taxation. it should be everyone’s, all the companies, all the countries’ and all the citizens’ values and the basis for regulations that ensure that we pay taxes where the profit is made and this is absolutely the key principle for that. ms ruohonen-lerner, maybe i will answer this question in finnish. ehkä tässäkin foorumissa on hyvä sanoa, mistä tuossa taloni luovutuksessa oli kysymys. kyseessä oli tietämäni iso perhe, joka omassa maassaan oli joutunut vainon kohteeksi kahdesta syystä. ensinnäkin he olivat auttaneet länsimaalaisia avustustyöntekijöitä ja toiseksi he olivat kristittyjä muslimimaassa. näin ei pitäisi olla, että vainotuksi joutuu näistä kahdesta syystä. tämä perhe oli hengenvaarassa joka ikinen päivä. me emme voi kuvitellakaan, minkälaisissa olosuhteissa he olivat ennen pakoon pääsyänsä. tämä perhe oli tulossa talooni ja en voinut kuvitellakaan, että suomessa voisi ilmapiiri kääntyä sellaiseksi, että tuon päätöksen joutuu perumaan perheen turvallisuuden vuoksi. poliisiviranomaiset sanoivat, että tuon perheen henki on uhattuna myös suomessa, jos vien päätökseni loppuun. valitettavasti he eivät tuohon päässeet, mutta he ovat onnellisesti turvassa muualla. mr president, guy verhofstadt has already left – he’s so busy – so i will jump to ms keller’s speech on climate change. i have worked a lot on climate-change issues, including at a personal level. i have made a promise that my family will be carbon neutral at the end of next year. i have solar panels at my home, i have an electric car, i have reduced consumption and i have planted trees, so that the end result is carbon neutrality. but it’s too easy for one individual to do this, and we need common action in three forms. we have to lower emissions, and continue on that path, and we also have to increase carbon sinks. there is proof that the finnish way, a sustainable way, of managing and using the forest is the best way to handle forest, and that also has my strong support. new technology is important too: i am eager to pursue new ways to capture co2 directly from the air and use that as a source of other new products; and we also have to plant new trees. you mentioned that we have experience of cooperating with a populist party, and my message is that populist parties too should take responsibility as part of a government, in the same way that all of us have to carry responsibility and be answerable to the people. mr sylikiotis – i am not sure how to pronounce your name – the famous finnish left-wing politician outi ojala said, in the finnish parliament, that the best friend for poor people was a balanced state budget. that is the basis for taking care of everyone, in every country, every day. and that is why, in finland, social benefits are set at such a high level – besides which, we have equal education for all our citizens. ms d’amato, on the employment rate, i agree that the employment rate is the key to balancing the economy, and all your actions in support of development to that end have my support.
i would like to ask the prime minister of finland, mr sipilä, about the common defence policy of the european union. you know, yesterday was the sad anniversary of the imus. imia is a region that belongs to greece, two islands that belong to my homeland. but there are the challenges and the doubts of turkey. in fact, these days turkish warplanes patrol the area. turkey continues its violations of greek airspace and territorial waters. it threatens greece with casus belli if greece extends its territorial waters to twelve miles. erdogan wants to overturn the lausanne treaty. i therefore want a very clear statement, firstly, of greece's support in the face of the threats from erdogan and turkey, and secondly, of your position on the european union's policy of finally supporting greece in the event of a turkish challenge to its borders. the european union should support the greek borders, which are european borders. and we want a very clear position from you, mr prime minister, here in the european parliament, because it will be a message to erdogan, to the turkish threats.
madam president, after venezuela, there is also another country that is violating human rights – there is no democracy, they are oppressing women and they are cutting dissidents into pieces – and that is saudi arabia. i hope we will vote for regime change in saudi arabia … (sustained applause)after all, there is oil there! there is oil! we have to change the regime.
madam president, i should like to begin by saying, in order to be entirely procedural, that in the selimovic report my machine did not work. if it worked, i would vote no. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i analyzed that yesterday. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unacceptable and must stop.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the management of community funds and vat. in this room we have denounced the 'party' being held by the various ngos in greece, which have actually used huge funds on the 'supposed' issue of refugee protection but in practice we see that the refugees are now in winter getting cold. i have made specific complaints here in this chamber. we have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. the second issue is the fraud in the field of agricultural policy, because what is happening is that foreign agricultural and livestock products are being called greek; this is what we call 'greening'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk is not imported from albania, and that meat is not imported from skopje. mr oettinger also promised that the commission would take action on this matter. we are still waiting for action to be taken.
madam president, today the european parliament has sent a clear and unambiguous message: in venezuela, the maduro regime is killing people in the street because they disagree with his views. in venezuela people are tested by the deprivation of basic goods and freedoms. in venezuela, journalists are being persecuted and imprisoned. in venezuela our values are being tested, the european values that unite us and we are here. it is therefore necessary for us as a parliament to take the initiative in calling for the recognition of the interim president, the interim leadership, which will lead to free, fair and credible elections. it is necessary to call on the council to act immediately and consistently. no doubt, no apprehension, no affinity with the maduro regime can and must not weaken the european union's resolve. europe and maduro are not going to get along. this is something that all venezuelans must hear and feel supported by the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's competition policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the well-known shipbuilding industry in greece, skaramagas shipyards, has to pay 310 million euros in state aid. is it still forbidden to build merchant ships? to greece! when the largest merchant fleet has a greek flag! at the same time, another company, larco, is forced by a court order to repay eur 135.8 million, resulting in its closure. we believe that the policy on state aid must be changed; that greece should be given an exemption, and in particular that these companies should not be required to return these funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the greek economy is in crisis because of the memorandum. to provide for special arrangements and special arrangements for greece in the field of state aid.
mr president, the programme to combat fraud at european union level is of particular importance and measures should be taken both to prevent fraud and to provide administrative assistance and to make use of the tools available. we have two levels of fraud: customs operations and 'mainly' the agricultural sector. i think we have to be decisive here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural products are not subject to the same customs duties as those of the other member states. we have imported milk from albania and it is called 'greenized' milk. we have a total of imports of livestock products from skopje, which are being illegally hellenized. serious care must be taken and decisive measures must be taken and, of course, the payment of pre-accession aid funds must be withdrawn for both albania and skopje, because they are involved in these customs fraud to the detriment of consumers and member states.
mr president, the multiannual plan for fish stocks in the western waters is of particular importance. i think that there are various points of view which should be taken into account. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the second issue concerns amateur fishermen and was also raised by various parties. i think that the comments that we cannot have a central system but we must have regional arrangements which take account of the specificities of fishing for certain fish such as the sea bass or arrangements which relate to the specificities of certain countries in fisheries matters will enable decisions to be taken which are important and which must also take account of small-scale fishing and not just focus on the known issues. of course, there will be problems due to brexit, which need to be addressed.
mr president, the protocol on the european union's fisheries agreement with côte d'ivoire must be applied on the basis of mutual benefit. the 36 fishing vessels from france, spain and portugal are not the only ones to benefit, but the local populations are also to benefit. on this basis, measures should be taken to support the local population and, of course, to improve the status of women. i think that the measures taken are important, as are those relating to labour legislation. i think it is also extremely important that there should also be support for the training of fishermen and seafarers. interventions to support small local producers are also on the right track and the protocol as a whole can contribute to the development of the blue economy, to maritime safety and, of course, to the fight against illegal fishing.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. mr president, we are discussing four very important reports today: on citizenship, enhanced cooperation, the political control which the european parliament must exercise over the commission and the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. each of these reports should have been the subject of a separate discussion; of course, we discuss them all together. i would like to dwell a little on the subject of enhanced cooperation, which is already in place. it is for the sake of schengen, it is for the sake of the functioning of the eurozone, and it must be a process open to countries which wish to participate afterwards. i would like to point out that we should consider whether, at this stage, we should also make provision for special provisions, special arrangements, a special regime for certain countries within the european union which are facing very specific problems, such as greece, which has just emerged from the memoranda devastated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let's think about this dimension as a way of differential integration.
mr president, for the states which apply the law of origin, i.e. jus sanguinis, citizenship is a right, a privilege, acquired by birth of a person to parents belonging to the same race and nation. so citizenship is not just a legal bond of persons having a common origin; it is something more. it is a cultural, cultural and social bond based on a sense of common national consciousness. the european citizenship is therefore a vague status and is deliberately confused with citizenship, which is simply the legal relationship of the citizen to the state to which he belongs. the european citizenship was invented only to abolish and destroy the nation states. for this very reason, the left-wing government of greece is massively promoting the granting of citizenship to illegal immigrants, so that they can gain the right to vote and destroy greece.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as soon as he is here, i will thank the rapporteur, mr rangel, for his work on the report on the statute of the european ombudsman. the european ombudsman is a key part of the institutional system of the european union and an essential aid at the disposal of european citizens, who are entitled to good administration from the eu institutions and bodies. i would like to commend the ombudsman’s work in fighting maladministration, which has been highly effective. this is illustrated, for example, by the high compliance rate of eu institutions and bodies with her recommendations, which is around 80%. in this context, we welcome the parliament’s report on the ombudsman’s statute. it is, of course, essential that the outcome of this review fully respects the respective roles of the eu institutions and bodies as established by the treaty. i’d like to make a few preliminary remarks without prejudice to the formal opinion that the commission will issue at a later stage, as foreseen in the treaty. we would agree in principle to amendments that consolidate current practice, which in our experience has worked well. this includes the possibility for the ombudsman to propose solutions and for the deadline for the commission to reply to recommendations to be able to be extended by two months. extending the possibilities for the ombudsman to appear before the european parliament would also be welcome as, in principle, is the possibility for the ombudsman to refer issues to olaf and the european public prosecutor’s office. as regards the proposed extension to three years of the deadline for lodging a complaint, we’d like to better understand the reasons for such an extension. we’re not opposed in principle but, to our knowledge, the current two-year period does not seem to have raised any practical problems. in addition, the more time that has elapsed, the more difficult it is for the administration to effectively address the issue raised by the complainant. i would also like to recall that the ombudsman’s role is to deal with cases of maladministration. cooperation between the ombudsman and the fundamental rights agency on national fundamental rights, institutions and bodies should remain within that remit. these are preliminary remarks and the commission will, of course, issue its opinion on the review at a later stage in the procedure, in line with article 228 of the treaty.
on behalf of the ecr group. i think, mr president, that the functioning of the european ombudsman has proved that it is effective and that it has fulfilled its role over the years. we can of course make changes to strengthen its action. i consider the ombudsman's independence to be important. at the same time, it must now be able to carry out enhanced own-initiative research. it has become clear in practice that this is extremely important. the ombudsman also checked whether procedures were being followed at commission level, in particular to avoid conflicts of interest, did the same with regard to the ecb and intervened on issues of publicity and transparency, in particular for the eurogroup. i think we should further strengthen the role of the ombudsman, particularly in the area of public interest witnesses, and, in my view, give him the right to appear before the court of justice of the european union in defence of the rights of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the ombudsman is an institution which helps to detect maladministration. his charter's been renewed. it's been the same for 30 years. but life goes on and we have to make changes. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of sexual harassment in the european institutions. of course it's not new. it is a very old wound, but we are now better equipped to combat this phenomenon and this is where the ombudsman must help. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by me on behalf of the gue/ngl. we must send citizens a clear message of transparency and trust: that we hear their messages and can be effective.
madam president, in a democratic society, the right to peacefully protest against government decisions is not only self-evident but imperative. but because the principle that authority is corrupt and corrupt holds, that authority does not tolerate criticism - even peaceful criticism - from its subjects. instead of relying on the power of persuasion and argument, it relies on the power of the police, which it often turns against peaceful protesters. the examples of the violent repression of catalans in spain and, more recently, of the yellow vests in france, as well as the peaceful demonstrations of greeks protesting against the government's decision to give the greek name of macedonia to skopje, are characteristic. and if the yellow vests had the excuse that some protesters had resorted to violence, greece had not the slightest excuse. the government ordered tear gas and expired chemical gas to be thrown at the elderly and children. we rightly condemn these unacceptable actions, but the solution will be decided by the people in the forthcoming european and national elections.
madam president, although the right to peaceful protest is enshrined in both constitutions and international legal instruments, what is happening in practice is that governments are dispersing large demonstrations by force. a classic case: in june 2011, in the constitutional court, the greek people had risen up against the troika and the memoranda. we had a continuous exercise of violence by the then greek government. this was followed in february 2012 by a grand demonstration against the memoranda in the constitution. again violence from the government of the memorandum. and now, recently, the government is forcibly dissolving the large rallies that are being held to protect the name of our macedonia and our history. it is now attacking the great patriotic movements, the great patriotic rallies. recently, in sytytytya, he dispersed a peaceful assembly with chemicals and attacked elderly people, but earlier, in pisoedery in june 2018, he did the same. shame on you!
mr president, mr vella, the matter we are discussing is a very serious one, as you can see. the european union has indeed made an effort to promote and maintain large carnivorous animals, but you will see that the situation has now got out of hand, and this seems to be the case in all the countries of the european union. in greece in particular, we now have a huge number of wolves and bears, and as a result, livestock farmers are facing enormous problems. they cannot tend their flocks and they cannot graze, especially in forests and at places that are at a considerable height. in the countryside, but also in the cities, even in thessaloniki, wild boars have appeared, for the simple reason that the wild boars have been forced to descend to the lowlands, because the areas at higher altitude are full of wolves and bears. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the european union must respect national identities and traditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stability pact must be abolished. the policy of severe austerity must be abandoned. the european central bank must be transformed into a lender of last resort. we do not need a european monetary fund. the european central bank can play this role, as can all the central banks in the states and in the united states and england. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the single currency.
mr president, it is logical and expected that there should be discussions in this house about the future of europe, because this is a matter which concerns us, not only us, but also future generations. but i have serious doubts whether we will be able to find a solution to the problem and not just have a discussion of a literary nature. i say this because for many of us, and especially for the leadership of the european union, there are obsessions and obstructions which, although it is clear what is happening, do not allow the correct process of solving problems to be implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is the europe of nations and of homelands that will solve the problem, with the cooperation of all the member states.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fox, on his report. i think it does put matters in the perspective they should be in. first of all, we are talking about artificial intelligence and robotics, which are already developing and have created many opportunities and, at the same time, many problems. they create new jobs, but at the same time other jobs are lost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's industrial policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, such as the new generation of robots. but definitely, artificial intelligence should be in the service of man and we should have a people-centred approach and not a profit-oriented approach for big monopoly companies.
mr president, a haphazard parliamentary majority, led by alexis tsipras, ratified a few days ago the despicable prespa agreement, which is selling out the name of our country and our history. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on foreign affairs and security, which is to be submitted to the european parliament. at the same time as the infamous prespes agreement, skopje was recognised as an enclosed state and was granted access to the greek eez. moreover, the same parliamentary majority approved skopje's accession to nato, drawing greece into a dangerous game of geopolitical competition between the european union, the united states and russia. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the balkans, and we are pleased that the european union is taking action to help the people of the balkans. the greek people are united and determined and will not accept the selling out of our macedonia. because macedonia is one and greek.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, in recent years, many of the citizens of the european union have found the institutions distant, even hostile. but in our case, their desire for better protection from natural disasters was the driving force behind our effort to make the european civil protection mechanism a real instrument of solidarity by creating resceu. today, humanity and support for the less able and environmental ethics are winning. the proposal was prompted by the devastating fires in portugal. but no one could have imagined that, just before the negotiations began, a new tragedy would strike europe, this time in mati, just outside athens, with over 100 dead. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the face of increasing natural disasters due to climate change or inadequate preparation by national authorities, we are not just observers, but we are responding forcefully. together, with more organization, we can achieve more than any of us can alone. the road to political integration is long and full of obstacles set by the advocates of a europe in which solidarity is not an end in itself but a means with a cost which they do not want to bear. the european civil protection mechanism is a prime example of practical solidarity between member states. we are creating resceu, a european pool of assets, such as firefighting helicopters and planes, which will be purchased with european funding for 80 to 90% of the total costs, ensuring that no country is left behind again. the commission is also proposing to make the european union's contribution to the maintenance of national resources up to 75%. this aid is essential in countries such as greece, where the inability to recover from the economic crisis has severely limited the action of national funds. finally, we are strengthening prevention by preserving the characteristics of solidarity. we rejected the council's proposal to introduce penalties for countries which frequently request the activation of the mechanism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardized by the introduction of new technologies, and that the protection of the environment is not jeopardized by the introduction of new technologies. all european citizens, regardless of the member state in which they reside, should feel safe and know that the union can help them in a practical and effective way in an emergency.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, this is one of the few positive news items that we have produced as european institutions in recent times. we owe this to the pressure of the european parliament, to the positive efforts of commissioner stylianides and to the cooperation of the european parliament and the commission, which has overcome the objections of some member states. because the facts have come to help. the tragic events. the great fires in portugal; deadly. the fires in my home country of greece and the floods, deadly. the earthquakes in italy, which also killed people, and the major fires in sweden, which made the northern member states realize that climate change is not just a threat to the south, and that we need a european auxiliary force to support the efforts of the member states. so we have no more of this euro-pyramid and we have more and better europe. the final proposal is improved, thanks to the persistence of the european parliament, and it is moving in a positive direction and that is why i think it has a wider support within parliament.
mr president, natural disasters are unfortunately on the agenda in the european union because of the 'nature' of climate change. we have had enormous disasters: the deadly floods in the attica plain, the deadly fires in mati with 100 dead, fires - also deadly - in portugal, earthquakes with dead in italy. the european union must have a decisive civil protection mechanism which puts the principle of solidarity into practice. i think the steps being taken are in a positive direction. the member states should understand that they cannot impose penalties on countries which wish to use this mechanism, because the exploitation of this mechanism is unfortunately the result of natural disasters. i think we must take even more decisive action and support the countries affected by natural disasters, which are the countries of the european south in particular.
in writing. in recent years, europe has been tested by uncontrolled natural disasters. greece mourned the hundreds of dead from the deadly fires in octi attica last summer, as well as the floods in mandra attica. with the reinforced european civil protection mechanism we are taking a step forward to help member states respond more quickly and effectively to disasters of this kind. it is undoubtedly a necessary tool for strengthening cooperation between member states, particularly in the event of major natural disasters, in order to save more lives in the future. member states with insufficient resources, such as greece, can benefit greatly from the creation of a reserve of resources for emergencies for the first time. but above all, the new mechanism puts the fundamental values of the european union into practice, is an expression of solidarity between member states and enhances the security of european citizens by meeting their demand for more europe. in this context, it is crucial to amend the european solidarity fund rules immediately, so that compensation to victims is determined on the basis of the gdp per capita of the affected area and to avoid excluding large populated areas with low levels of wealth from the fund.
mr president, i think that the debate has highlighted the enormous problem that exists with regard to the use of pesticides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to raise another point, mr andriukaitis. we are talking about the use of pesticides within the european union, but we have massive imports of agricultural products from turkey, where the use of pesticides is uncontrolled. there are banned pesticides used in the cultivation of agricultural products in turkey and yet these products are now being imported into the european union itself. so what protection is there for the consumers themselves? milk imported from albania is being processed into greek milk. we don't have a plant health inspection there either. we have a total import of meat, illegally, from skopje and there we have no control over what kind of substances are used. so we have to look at what happens to imports of products from third countries.
the role of pesticides in european production is important, madam president, because they help to combat harmful organisms that attack plants and contribute to good plant health. but some of them enter the aquatic horizon, creating problems for ecosystems. moreover, pesticide residues on food endanger the health of people, of those living in agricultural areas, of consumers and even of passersby. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. in addition, some pesticides are suspected of causing endocrine disorders. all of this places an obligation on both nations and the european union to work together and to make efforts to use pesticides rationally. the use of pesticides must be limited and biological methods rather than chemical ones must be chosen. in addition, the european union must protect consumers from pesticides imported from third countries.
madam president, crossborder healthcare is certainly one of the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union. in the past, there were patients who could afford and made the effort to go to another eu country for treatment when it was not possible to provide it in their own country. this was the general trend, but there was certainly a huge problem as to how patients would get back the money they had paid. now the situation has changed and patients are going to countries where the treatment itself is cheaper. i think the directive should be implemented. i would like to ask you, commissioner, mr andriukaitis, about the issue of the flu epidemic in greece. we have over 39 dead. there is a huge flu epidemic and i would like to ask whether the greek government has contacted the relevant authorities of the european union, whether it has asked you for help and what will happen to the lack of vaccines to treat the flu. we want an answer to this question because it concerns the greek population.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. at the same time, the development of medical science enables many patients to obtain health care not only in their own country but also in other member states of the european union, especially in the peripheral regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected. the commission has also taken steps to reduce the number of irregular migrants, to simplify certain administrative procedures, to fix compensation, and to tackle fraud, epidemics and, above all, the health care of illegal migrants, who often gather in large numbers at the borders with neighbouring countries, as is the case in greece.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states of the european union is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. at the same time, animal products, such as meat, are imported into greece from skopje and are also named in greek. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural products are not subject to the same restrictions as those applied to the other member states. the european union's preaccession policy requires very specific measures, which are not there, and sanctions should be imposed on these neighbouring states, albania and skopje. measures are needed to tackle illegal hellenisation of agricultural and livestock products.
madam president, the european union's civil protection mechanism is an important activity because the european union, and in particular the countries of the european south, have faced enormous problems due to natural disasters. in greece, we had the deadly floods in mandra attica, the deadly fires in mati with over 100 dead and, to date, the victims have not received their compensation. it's something we should consider very seriously. the government, which has not yet paid compensation to the victims because of its perceived incompetence, should take up the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water resources of the community are not used for the production of waste water. on this basis, we should also look at how to reuse water resources, because there is a huge limitation on water resources, and climate change is exacerbating the problem. in this sense, we must look at how we can reuse water. their reuse must contribute to the development of agriculture, the protection of the environment and the promotion of public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not used for the production of waste water.
madam president, the united states is not actually withdrawing from syria. they're redeploying forces to the area and upgrading their presence. with iran always in the crosshairs, in a quagmire of acute contradictions, with the finger on the trigger and at the same time bargaining with russia, israel, the gulf countries and egypt, and with turkey, of course, in an upgraded role, intervening unhindered militarily in the region, the post-war control of the entire middle east and the south-eastern mediterranean is being planned. the european union, france, britain, germany and italy are certainly moving in the same direction, both militarily and economically. they sponsor tripartite axes such as israel/cyprus/greece, with the latter under the syriza government in a role of mediator and flag-bearer, as well as a channel of communication with turkey when bargaining becomes difficult. the european union is also calling for the immediate withdrawal of all military forces from cyprus, including those of the turkish armed forces, and for the immediate withdrawal of all military forces from cyprus. the syrian government's myth that the united states, nato and the european union are ensuring peace in the region, only rivalries, war and misery, is thus shattered.
madam president, after the surprise announcement by president trump of the withdrawal of us forces from syria, the situation in the middle east has changed and has become more confusing. the decision to leave was taken without consulting the other parties involved, creating a vacuum which everyone is trying to fill in order to serve their own interests. in the short time available to me i cannot make a thorough analysis of the situation. but i would point out that while all the players are gaining advantages on the syrian chessboard, the only one missing is the european union. the european parliament has been the guardian of the treaties since the beginning of the crisis and the war, and it is now facing two serious dangers. one is from upgraded turkey. you realise that now turkey's aggressiveness and provocation will increase. the second danger is from the fanatical jihadists of isis, who, although defeated militarily, have been rescued and are preparing to return in various ways to their homelands in europe to undertake terrorist activity. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i am grateful to the honourable member for his question and i agree with him completely. i don't want to go into any more detail, i'm just saying this: the fact is that the reality is exactly as it is presented, and that does not help the general policy, the credibility, or the prestige of the european union.
mr president, i want to support mr preda's report, which i consider to be of good quality and balanced, and i thank him for it. i am convinced, commissioner, that we must constantly and patiently offer the balkan peoples a european future. that is to say, if we are talking here about the fact that the reforms in bosnia and herzegovina are not very successful, this cannot lead to europe slowing down and limiting dialogue with bosnia and herzegovina. if we do, it will be a huge geopolitical mistake and the space will be filled by russia, which today communicates significantly with the serbian ethnic part of this state. and we simply cannot afford to do that. so i ask you, let us take these geopolitical considerations into account, and let us patiently try again to help bosnia and herzegovina with reforms that will bring it closer to the european union, so that finally this country can get the status of a candidate country. it's extremely important for us, if we don't do that, then russia, turkey and other countries will be strengthened in the balkans.
mr president, who ignited the nationalisms in bosnia and elsewhere to break up yugoslavia? the european union is a major partner in the peace process. and the situation in bosnia continues to be one of the last outstanding issues for the euro-atlantic integration of the western balkans, amid acute rivalries between the americans, nato and the european union with russia and china. the nationalist sentiments that have been cultivated are not going to go away. they are triggering conflicts and changing borders, twenty years later, as now with kosovo and serbia, opening the appetite to others who are demanding border changes, such as turkey. the shameful, nato-backed prespa agreement between tsipras and zaev is being held up as an example of a settlement, not to resolve disputes, but to assert imperialist interests in the crucial balkans. for example, the conversion 'again' in recent days of the port of thessaloniki into a nato base, making it a potential military target of rival coalitions, which contradicts the syriza myth of stability with nato and the european union. security, peace and friendship among the peoples of the balkans mean one thing: nato, the americans and the european union must leave.
mr president, the competition between the united states and russia in the balkans is exacerbating the contradictions and, of course, the problems that dayton was unable to solve, which are related to the peaceful coexistence of ethnic groups and minorities in bosnia, are intensifying. it is certain that we must repeat what we said in 2017 in this room: that there should be fair treatment of minorities within bosnia and herzegovina, that the government must address the huge problems that exist in relation to corruption and organized crime, that protection must be ensured especially for roma, the application of the rule of law, meritocracy in public administration and, in general, the protection of human rights. i therefore believe that all that we have said in the past has not been resolved in bosnia-herzegovina's path towards the european union. it is a project which seems to be unattainable.
mr president, mr conte, i agree with what you say about the course europe is taking, but europe must show solidarity and solidarity must be expressed in the field of defence and foreign policy as well as in the field of security. you know that turkey continues to threaten greece, continues to threaten cyprus, constantly violates greek airspace, violates greek territorial waters and violates the eez of cyprus. i want a statement from you supporting greece in the face of turkish threats, a statement from you supporting cyprus so that it can exploit its natural resources, at a time when the italian company eni also wants to cooperate with cyprus in exploiting its natural resources and is threatened by turkey and italy and eni and cyprus. we want a statement from you here in the european parliament, supporting greece and cyprus and condemning the threats of erdoğan and turkey, mr prime minister. the greek people expect it. we are also expecting our friends in cyprus to do so. we want a statement of support.
mr president, the eu-singapore economic cooperation agreement is leading to further growth in trade and this of course means massive imports of cheap products from singapore into the european union. because, in practice, singapore is the gateway to china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. but as far as products made in singapore are concerned, we all know that labour laws are not respected there. we have a classic wage dumping and we have, in effect, a process that violates any notion of fair trade. singapore is a region exploited by large business groups in the european union and other countries to create superprofits. i am, of course, also against the logic of the existing isds, which in practice protects investors at the expense of the states. finally, the european union seems to have forgotten that in singapore human rights are not respected, the rule of law is violated, all democratic expression is violated and the death penalty is still in force.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this disease. 26% of deaths are due to cancer. for women, it has been shown, both by discussion and by studies, that cancer is basically breast cancer, uterine cancer and cervical cancer. of course, prevention is possible and that is what we should be focusing on. we must have access to diagnostic tests for women and to treatment - and at a low cost, because otherwise access to treatment for women is prohibited. of course, the next stage is psychological support, because the interventions that are being done, especially breast cancer treatment, can lead to a survival rate of about 78% for women, but beyond that, support is needed.
madam president, sustainable development will either be people-centred or it will not exist at all. this means, then, that we must be concerned with the welfare of the many and not the few. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a lot of wealth being produced in the european union and globally, but unfortunately it is not being distributed properly, it is not being distributed fairly. there are layers of society that have been left behind and that is why our interventions must support those who are really living in poverty, in unemployment. this means interventions at the level of the economy, supporting the circular economy, supporting education, training, research and technology. it means a different model and it also means fair trade policies; that is where we have to work.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of regional development is a very good one. no cohesion fund or other fund brings about convergence. the only difference is the disparity between the states and the regions, which is an iron law of capitalism and its anarchic development based on profit. no program has stopped one crisis, nor will it prevent the next. the funding is linked to the european semester and economic governance, exploiting compliance with anti-people political reforms and duration memoranda. the key is not the absorption of funds that governments, ministers, regional and municipal authorities are proud of, but where the money goes: to support large enterprises in line with the union's priorities. the people's needs for earthquake, flood, fire, health, schools, public housing and compensation of the affected are considered costs, are downgraded and excluded. the kke alone claims these. finally, the great myth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they get off the backs of the people's heavy taxation, while the corporations get tax breaks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to meet the needs of the people.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the effective and impartial management of available resources through value-added criteria and the strengthening of actions in support of member states' priorities is not served. the amendments to these funds are supposed to reduce the administrative burden by facilitating the management services responsible. i am personally interested in serving the public and, above all, in eradicating poverty, economic inequalities and existing distortions. words such as 'synergies' and 'simplification' and 'rationalise' are used to disguise political crises and non-territorial discrimination by restricting funds for cohesion and supporting disadvantaged or lagging regions. guarantees are required to maintain the actual costs of support. the financial resources of the union, being contributions, belong to the states and must be returned to them. in fact, the report promotes the selective management of state funds for the directed waste of this public money on industries, businesses and specific interests, undermining institutions and authorities, for the benefit of a few powerful economic centers.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. secondly, the cohesion fund plays a decisive role, particularly for less developed regions. i would like to emphasize here the need to strengthen the islands and remote regions, particularly the aegean islands and the mountainous regions of greece. the next issue is of course good administration and management and transparency in the funds. simplification of procedures must serve these principles. we should also note that emphasis should be placed on local added value, because community funds are usually received by large multinational companies, which, although they receive funds, for example, in greece, do not pay taxes in greece. i think we must find a way of making local added value play a role, that is to say, of supporting local smes, so that we can have a significant effect on the functioning of the funds.
mr president, we cannot talk about fair taxation here today when the union itself, through austerity and fiscal adjustment policies, is imposing unrealistic taxes on certain member states. in greece there are many factors which demonstrate why taxation today is anything but fair. wealth production and income collapsed, but tax revenues did not. citizens see their incomes fall and most of it goes to the state. tax rates were increased, the tax-free threshold was lowered, tax exemptions were abolished and new taxes were added, e.g. enfia, solidarity levy, excise duties, etc. in eight years, the extraordinary taxes have increased by 94%. tax revenues on citizens' wealth increased sevenfold from 500 million in 2008 to 3.6 billion. at the moment greece is third in the list of the european union member states with the highest social security contributions. high taxation not only hinders growth, but also drives thousands of self-employed out of the market. in addition, the non-profitability of taxation, since after the memoranda the level of social benefits and government services has been reduced tremendously... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, fair taxation for a fair society requires the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance and the fight against tax rulings, as we have seen with luxleaks in mr juncker's luxembourg and mr dijsselbloem's netherlands. it assumes that multinationals will be taxed in the countries where they make their profits. in greece, the troika and the eurogroup have imposed austerity, forced fiscal adjustment, pension cuts and tax evasion, which has now intensified as the greek people are forced to pay 3.5% primary surpluses into the pockets of the lenders. that's through 2022 and 2% of gdp for the next 38 years. the nfia has been imposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the only way to achieve a just society is to rid greece of the troika and its usurious creditors.
mr president, health technologies are obviously supposed to be human-supporting, patient-supporting, because health is a public good. but when the whole process of health technology development is integrated into the internal market, the market is the key driver. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected. we must therefore achieve health technologies that are in favour of the patient himself and there must be cheap medicines in order to tackle the main problem, which is to support the health of the patient. in greece, unfortunately, the troika, by imposing its own policies, has removed medicines such as cancer drugs from the health system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat the spread of the disease.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the future of the inf treaty and its impact on the european union (2019/2574 ((rsp)).
mr president, the inf treaty was indeed a success, because it led to disarmament on the old continent. that was certainly at a different stage. now we have a heightened competition between the united states and russia. it is obvious that the united states has stated that it wants to denounce the inf agreement and is trying to find various ways to do this and exploit, of course, russia's own policy. but it is the european union that is paying for it, and so far i have not heard any serious initiatives from the council on this matter. what does he have to do? how will he meet the challenges? the european union is the one that will have the big problem in the end. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is clear that the united states and russia are moving towards a more general rupture and competition in the arms trade.
mr president, on october 20th, president trump announced the withdrawal of the united states from the inf treaty, which was signed in 1987 between reagan and gorbachev and ensured that the two superpowers would not use nuclear weapons. but now things have changed. the withdrawal of the united states, which has also released russia from its obligation, creates a new strategic reality in europe and lays the foundations for a strategic competition which will inevitably involve nuclear weapons. in my view, the real reason why the united states withdrew from the inf treaty is as follows: russia has deployed in syria and on its border with ukraine missile systems that prevent american aircraft and ships from penetrating the areas protected by these systems. in order to respond, the united states must attack these systems from long distances. so they must deploy long-range missiles on land, similar to the tomahawk missiles launched from submarines and ships, with a range of between 800 and 1,000 miles. the russians, for their part, have developed a land-based variant of the kalibr system that has a similar range. so, then, you will understand that the inf treaty is now definitely and irrevocably a thing of the past.
ms ward, you have a blue-card question from mr bütikofer, do you accept it?
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 february 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr franck proust, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the establishment of a framework for the control of foreign direct investment in the european union (com (2017) 0487 - c8-0309/2017 - 2017/0224 (cod)) (a8-0198/2018).
mr president, the european union's control of investments by third countries on its territory is part of a real war, an economic war. which, of course, turns into a hot war. the union is defending itself against the economic penetration of third parties: russia, china and others. against britain as a trojan horse of foreign investment after brexit. the only reason why this is not compulsory is because of internal contradictions within the union. it is a blackmail operation in the interests of its monopolies. the scope of controllable investments and the notion of security that control protects change according to its respective interests in high-tech infrastructure investments, defence and control of media and propaganda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. workers should know this: the famous freedom of capital and movement is gone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is, however, constantly and always directed against the workers and the peoples, who must turn it against the wars of the capitalists and satisfy their own needs.
it was a statement, but you could answer.
mr president, we have witnessed the greatness of the double-speak and the hypocrisy. as long as the european multinationals in the hard core bought the companies in the european south instead of a billboard, there was no problem. so now, when powerful chinese or russian or american companies appear to buy european companies, everyone protests. i did not see you protest, many of you, when the memorandum de-hellenised the greek banks. when a german state-owned company bought the greek telecommunications company or when an italian state-owned company, under the terms of the memorandum, bought the greek railways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as you can see, dear friends, capitalism takes its revenge on the capitalists themselves.
the debate on this point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 february 2019.
the next item is the report by mr massimiliano salini, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the interoperability of toll systems and facilitating cross-border exchange of information for the avoidance of paying road tolls in the union (com (2017) 0280 - c8-0173/2017 - 2017/0128 (cod)) (a8-0199/2018).
madam president, we are discussing a serious matter at a time when a debate has been launched throughout the european union on the legality of tolling. this is something that is being discussed now and in the run-up to the european elections. there are political forces, but also citizens and road users who feel that these charges are being imposed in an unfair way. we also have the day before yesterday, 6 february, the decision of the advocate general in the case of austria v germany, also on the charges imposed on foreign drivers. so i think there's a broader dimension to this discussion. it is not just a question of how the fees will be collected or how a way will be found to collect these fees by means of enforcement, but also whether this is legal, especially as regards greece, since all the revenues of the highways have been assigned by troika orders to the foreign lenders.
on behalf of the ecr group. mutual recognition of goods applies to products which are not subject to, or are only partially covered by, union harmonisation legislation. the fact that a product is already legally on the market enhances legal certainty. unfortunately, the despicable prespa agreement, besides selling out our macedonia and our history, leaves exposed greek companies that use the name of our macedonia in trade names, trademarks and brand names, such as macedonian wine, macedonian halva, etc. this is because article 3 (4) legitimises the right of skopje companies to use corresponding trade names with the name 'macedonia'. the confusion will continue for at least three years. i ask you, mr dombrovskis, how does the commission intend to protect greek companies which legally use the name of our macedonia in trade names, trademarks and names from unfair competition from skopje companies which illegally use the name 'macedonia'? we want an answer to this question, which is a very serious one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask you to give us a clear answer to this question so that there is no confusion. i appeal to you, mr dombrovskis.
madam president, i think we are discussing an interesting piece of legislation which really touches all the citizens of the european union. we've all been to other countries in the european union where there's no euro, and it's a fact that there's no transparency in the way that the conversion to the local currency is done, whether it's when you pay at a pos or when you draw cash in the local currency. i think that the measures taken in the field of transparency are very important. in addition, transfers within the european union should be free of charge. i would just like to raise a point. in greece, a particular bank systematically charges two euros for each withdrawal, as happened in my case, when it comes to a foreign card or account. obviously, these charges are illegal. other banks do not impose such a charge and i think we should look at this in detail too, mr dombrovskis. i'll send you the facts on that matter.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the mercy of the market, and that the transport sector is not left to the mercy of the market. in greece we have buses and coaches. we have the ktels, which provide very specific services and even operate routes to remote areas. the operation of these enterprises should be protected, because with the extreme liberalization there is the possibility of bankruptcy of these companies. the same applies to companies providing coach transport services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. if they are forced to modernise their buses and coaches tomorrow, it is obvious that they will close down and that will help the big multinational companies. we must take the issue of protecting local transport companies seriously.
madam president, i very much welcome this programme, i would also like to see more funding and allow me to make a personal comment. as the representative of the capital city of prague, the capital of the czech republic, a beautiful, historic city through which the vltava river flows, i know how terribly underestimated inland water transport is. how old ships are often found on european rivers and how big a problem this is in particular cities. we're working on it on a permanent basis, and if naiades ii comes along and if it has a sequel, we'll be happy to take advantage of that. this particular example from the czech republic is proof that there is a huge potential here that we are absolutely unable to exploit in europe. so the more the merrier, and i hope that this program will have followers and that we will be able to free up more money than is in this particular bill. the money is really scarce, but i very much welcome this initiative.
madam president, the naiads, according to greek mythology, were nymphs of fresh water and springs. in fact, homer mentions that they were daughters of zeus. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner, because naiades ii is linked to the connecting europe programme and because a lot of funds were cut from the cohesion fund to go to connecting europe, whether these funds will also be used to implement the well-known project called the suez of the balkans, i.e. the integration of the axios, morava, danube and rhine rivers, a €17 billion project which the united states is pursuing in order to transport liquefied natural gas from the entrance to the mediterranean, from thessaloniki, to western europe. the question is therefore whether naiades ii will finance this project, thus revealing that narrow economic interests are behind the despicable prespa agreement through naiades ii. we need an answer to these questions, mrs. bulc. tell us if this project will be funded by naiades ii. what are the conditions ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings.
madam president, competition between the european union, the united states, russia and china is intensifying and is of course creating a number of problems for european businesses and the european economy, because at this stage chinese companies are very strong and are trying to buy up strategic companies in the european union. the european union, therefore, for its own reasons, imposes restrictions on investment, even if it does not want to admit it. such restrictions may be imposed on grounds of public policy and public security. the united states has already done so on its part. so, well, this is something we discussed in the previous discussion. it is true that the reasons for technological security are there, they have been developed, and therefore the european union is developing a system to defend itself against chinese interference.
mr president, i am prepared to support this report and to thank the authors for it. for more than a year, i've been working on the problem of animal transportation in europe from the perspective of the czech republic. i am in contact with the non-governmental sector and from the facts i have, commissioner, i must say that my view is completely opposite to yours. i don't share your optimism at all. and just for your information, in 2013, 3,000 cows were exported from the czech republic to turkey. in 2015 and 2016, that number was 78,000 cows. we have seen a proliferation of cattle exports from this member state to turkey, we have clear facts and information about the non-compliance with eu legislation, the non-control of the bulgarian-turkish border. these are facts that you cannot question here. your animal rights committee did nothing. i have written to the commission many times as a czech mep about the smuggling of dogs and cats from the czech republic to western europe, but i have received no answers. so please, let's pay more attention to animal rights in the future.
mr president, the protection of animals during transport within and outside the european union has been the subject of many reports to the committee on petitions of the european parliament and is a matter of concern. and it raises concerns, of course, because there is an issue with animal health and, by extension, with human health. i therefore believe that we must be decisive and that checks must also be carried out at the border. i would also like to ask you, commissioner, to look at the issue of the transport of animals from skopje to greece. first, we have illegal greenification. the animals are presented as greek and then loaded onto trucks to be transported from skopje to thessaloniki or athens. it is a serious matter and you must intervene in it. there must be a check on this.
mr president, every year millions of live animals are transported, both between the countries of the european union and to third countries. we all know that during transport these animals suffer, suffer, risk their lives and, above all, travel for long periods in bad weather, in vehicles that are often not up to standard. you're going to tell me that the way man treats animals is a result of his character, his personality and his cultural level. but the states have to deal with this problem. they must set standards, enforce those standards and punish offenders. we must also avoid moving animals to third countries which do not meet the standards. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of animal by-products, which are not covered by the directive, and to include the use of animal by-products in the labelling of foodstuffs.
the development of the customs union is important for the european union itself. i would like to raise the question of customs fraud. at the moment, we have complaints of illegal alcohol imports from bulgaria into greece, with the result that the local ouzo and tsipouro industry can no longer operate. we have massive illegal imports, and as a result, the watermen are protesting. i've been to areas of larissa and i've received these complaints. the second point is that there must be very clear controls both at the greek-albanian border and at the greek-skopje border, because there too illegal imports of tsipoura are taking place and, of course, products are being hellenized: milk imported from albania is shown as greek. meat is grilled: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the meat imported from skopje is shown as greek. these customs fraud cases must be dealt with.
mr president, the situation in zimbabwe is explosive: the new president is continuing mugabe's policy, that is, an authoritarian policy, a clearly anti-democratic policy with imprisonment and the restriction of democratic rights. at the same time, the price of fuel has gone up by 130%, people are protesting and there are thousands of refugees fleeing the country. i think that the european union must send a strong message to the president of zimbabwe. first of all, to end the funding: the european union's assistance to zimbabwe is worth eur 234 million. it must also request the intervention of the african union.
mr president, the suppression of human rights in saudi arabia is unfortunately a sad reality, and women are the ones who suffer the most oppression. until recently, they couldn't even drive a car. and of course, those - and especially women - who resist and fight for women's rights are treated harshly by the saudi regime, where the death penalty is still in force and is even carried out. a regime that slaughters civilians in yemen, a regime that funds terrorism. i think it is time to take concrete measures against saudi arabia and to impose an arms embargo, because only then can they understand that the european union has a strong voice on this issue and will be forced and obliged to respect and uphold women's rights and human rights in general in saudi arabia.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i want to speak on the agenda and we want the committee on budgets to make the following proposal: the landslide that hit the regional unit of chania in crete on february 24-25 caused huge damage to public infrastructure and private property. i have already visited the affected areas twice and the area of the chania unit looks like a bombed-out landscape; bridges destroyed, roads opened in two, extensive landslides, agricultural and livestock units destroyed. the committee of the regions has also called for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new programme, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn. we therefore propose today, since our request was not accepted by the other political groups because the agenda was saturated, that this issue be added as the last item on monday and that a resolution be adopted on measures to support the victims of the earthquake in the regional unit of chania and on measures to repair the damage. i believe that this is a sign of solidarity with our fellow citizens in the region of chania who are suffering and i call on my colleagues to accept the request of the committee on regional policy to add the issue of reparation for the damage in the region of chania as an eighth item and to adopt a resolution. i would ask you, mr president, to put this to the vote, asking once again for the support of your colleagues.
mr president, the european criminal records information system, ecris, is a system already in place for the exchange of information relating to convicted citizens of the european union. it is therefore only logical that this system should be extended to third country nationals. it is not possible for foreigners to be treated better than citizens of the european union. the question is what will happen to those with dual nationality. i should like to point out to my colleagues that dual citizenship means dual rights, but also dual obligations. it is not possible, when you are a third country national and a citizen of the european union, to simply have the advantages of being a third country national and not the obligations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the citizens of the union are not discriminated against in the same way as citizens of other member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission proposal for a european solidarity corps, mr president, once again demonstrates that the european union uses the concepts of volunteering and solidarity only as a tool and as a euphemism. the programme was designed in such a way that the very concept of solidarity is distorted. it establishes a dangerous link between volunteering and employability, and in effect tries to impose undercover work, while at the same time promoting the participation of for-profit companies in it. the objectives of the solidarity programme cannot be entrepreneurship, profits and precarious work for young people. such a programme should enhance the common value of solidarity and not lead to its deconstruction. it should empower citizens and help young people in their personal development, not boost the profits of multinationals. the european solidarity corps, ladies and gentlemen, as it is being formed, is yet another ideological and political mechanism under the control of the neoliberal european union. the present european union has proved incapable of meeting the real needs of young people for education, work and dignity. it is unable to deal with the enormous economic and humanitarian crises generated by its neoliberal policies, policies which must be overturned and not dealt with with these patches we are discussing today.
mr president, the european union is intervening with all means against the peoples, using bombing, trade wars, tariffs, sanctions, alleged human rights clauses and threats. the european solidarity corps is another reactive multi-tool to support the multi-layered military structures of the european union, such as pesco. it is a body of unemployed, all of them by the millions caused by the policy of the european union and its governments, which will include the dead, the refugees and the wreckage of the imperialist interventions of the european union and its allies as well. from country to country, even outside the european union, they will go to collect certificates of voluntary work and a few months' apprenticeship with a small allowance for their expenses, with contractors ngos and businesses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the young workers, with a strong communist party, can give an answer to the imperialist plans and the labor jungle.
madam president, volunteering and solidarity are indeed important values in modern society. but the point is that, looking at the proposal for the famous european solidarity corps, what we see is that things are not like that, because volunteering is an activity that is done without remuneration. here we see that 1.2 billion euros will be allocated to this famous volunteering -- it's paid volunteering, that is. second, is volunteering at the heart of solidarity? i very much doubt that, because we have seen how the famous ngos have acted in relation to refugee support. we saw a big party, which is happening right now in greece and in the other countries. so the case of solidarity volunteering is being used in practice to continue the famous party that is being held in the field of refugees, migrants and other social actions and, of course, to cover up the great problem of unemployment. if we want to take action, let this money be used to promote employment for young people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate you on the negotiation and the successful conclusion of the trilogue. this is the next important step after the nis directive to strengthen cybersecurity in the european union that protects both our economy and society, but also our democracy. every day we have cyber attacks, many of which come from third countries, and our digital economy is growing exponentially, and these attacks will grow exponentially as well. it is therefore very important to strengthen the european union in tackling it with tools and policies, not just in cooperation but also in coordination between member states and in the exchange of information, because cybersecurity is a moving target. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. with the adoption of the eu cybersecurity act, it is greatly strengthened, with increased powers and staffed with experts to deal with cyber threats. however, we must continue and substantially complete investments in cybersecurity, supporting innovation and through the financial instruments of the european union we are investing around 2 billion for 2021-2027. i think that they are on the right track and i hope that the new regulation on competence centres and networks, which we are also voting on, will be completed and that the trilogue will be launched, so that with this composition of the european parliament we can actually complete this strategic plan for cybersecurity. i think we are making a lot of progress today, but we still have a long way to go. having completed the draft law on artificial intelligence, we understand that the threats are constantly increasing. thank you very much and good luck.
mr. president, we're talking about cybersecurity, the measures we need to take. but what measures, commissioner, mr anship, will the european union take against a member state which is monitoring its own citizens? because a few days ago, on 4 march, we had preventive arrests in the town of yanitsos of supporters, greek citizens, who disagree with the despicable prespes agreement. they were pre-emptively arrested by the police and the minister of civil protection, mrs. gerovasili, said that the government monitors social media, monitors facebook, gathers information about citizens and makes pre-emptive arrests and sends people to court, all the activists who are fighting against the selling out of our macedonia and our history. these are recorded. so what are you gonna do? is it possible that we have a violation of the law, a violation of the gdpr regulation, and we have a government that processes the personal data of citizens and monitors the internet and makes illegal preventive arrests? i want your opinion, commissioner. the commission is therefore proposing that the council should take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter.
mr president, unfair trading practices in business-to-business relationships in the food supply chain are on the agenda. we know that there is no such thing as fair trade in practice. we know that there is in fact over-exploitation of the peasants. it has been said that farmers themselves get at most 20% of the total price of a product, and this is because there are multinational companies, there are large food chains and food distribution, there is blackmail by the wholesaler, who shapes prices, often pays by cheque, then does not pay, and all this, of course, leads to complete dependence on the rural world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the cap. the farmers must be supported by other practices and above all by banks to give them cheap credit to meet the high cost of production.
mr president, vietnam is one of the world's largest producers of timber and, of course, an important trading partner of the european union. this voluntary agreement, if properly respected and implemented, could really help to combat illegal silos. it is clear that we must stop deforestation, rely on efforts that actually enhance environmental conditions that ensure that we address the problems of climate change. of course there are many problems, because there is illegal importation of timber into vietnam from cambodia and this is largely due to the corruption that exists in the customs, in the vietnamese customs authorities. if this is not dealt with, we will obviously not be able to have a serious and correct implementation of the agreement that we are seeing. it is therefore a matter of vietnam's compliance with the terms and conditions of this voluntary agreement.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the citizens' initiative is a concrete expression of participatory democracy and should therefore be strengthened within the european union. the fact that 9 million european union citizens have so far participated in various citizens' initiatives shows the mass participation and the fact that a legislative initiative on drinking water is already underway shows the success of the effort. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the new procedure is therefore very important, we have discussed it in the committee on petitions and of course the right of the organisers to have a public hearing and in the european parliament i think it broadens the democratic side of the operation. i support the effort to have maximum participation of young people, 16 year olds being able to participate in the whole effort. the fact that the council does not allow this is negative, but the states themselves can give this opportunity and i believe that the greek government must give this opportunity. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to say that the procedure provides for both the commission's position and the european parliament's position. but in so far as there is disagreement, i think that the authorities could have gone to the court of justice of the european union, as has been done with the other initiatives, and judged from there whether this was legal or illegal. in the final analysis, the application of legality is ensured by the decisions of the court of justice of the european union, to which the competent authorities may appeal.
mr president, it is unacceptable for the european citizens' initiative to have so much disagreement and so much manipulation by certain political groups. it is a tool of direct democracy. the european citizens' initiative will bring us closer to the citizens to hear their voices and it is our duty to respond with action. eighty days before the election, we're putting so many obstacles in the way of citizens. they want to propose that we create legislation for their problems, but what better than that? otherwise, why should they trust us, why should they vote for us when we don't care? it is impossible to vote on the text as it stands. unfortunately, the few progressive forces are not enough to reverse the result. rest assured that some of us will continue to fight and i can personally guarantee that.
mr president, conflict prevention and mediation must be an important activity of the european union, since it is an international player, a soft power, which must act on the basis of the principles of peaceful coexistence. the european union must, of course, set out its values and principles. the basic principle is, first of all, the reinforcement of the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of each member state. secondly, the mutual economic benefit. thirdly, support for and respect for international law and un resolutions. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. it is also necessary to pursue parliamentary diplomacy, because this is the way to really get closer to other countries and to start resolving disputes. but the most important thing is to tackle the causes of conflict, and of course there must be a people-centred approach on the part of the european union.
mr president, after the floods and the rain that hit the hania regional unit, there is the refusal of the eurogroup today to return to greece one billion euros of the european central bank's profits on greek bonds, thus proving once again that the harsh supervision of the troika and the creditors over the impoverished greek people continues. the european central bank speculated unrestrainedly against greece, buying greek bonds at a 40% discount and then demanding and obtaining the redemption of these bonds at their nominal value, thus gaining over eur 20 billion. as if that were not enough, draghi now demands the red loans be sold off to the crows instead of a lens board, with the result that the greeks are in danger of losing their homes. the only solution is to create a sovereign-intervention borrower rescue fund that will buy up the red loans at the price of the first offer the crows make. this is the position and it must be applied in particular to the flood-stricken regional unit of chania.
mr prime minister, welcome to the house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. can you explain to me on the refugee issue, which you did not mention, why you are pursuing a policy that is so close to viktor orbán's policy, if not similar? in a few days, viktor orbán is being discussed for exclusion from the european people's party, which is much more right-wing than your party. as the presidents of the visegrád countries, do you intend to help parliament and the commission so that there is finally this reform of asylum policies and a fair distribution of responsibilities among all european states in the refugee field? or will you, together with orbán and kaczyński, block the single european refugee policy? you have told us many fine things about europe and unity and democracy. but it's time to put it into practice in the refugee camp.
madam president, we are talking about cybersecurity at a time when there are serious breaches in certain member states. i asked the commissioner, mr anship, yesterday to confirm my complaints, because the greek government is making preventive arrests of those who disagree with the selling out of our macedonia and our history, and it has made preventive arrests in the yanitsos area. the minister of civil protection said that she knows their details because the police monitor facebook and social media. this is what is happening in greece today, and there are cases being filed against those who oppose the sale of macedonia, those who oppose the despicable prespa agreement, those who take part in the demonstrations. the government processes their personal data and intervenes and sees what they stand for and what they say on social media. the commission must take a position on this.
madam president, in order to support our farmers there must be a total ban on all unfair practices and not just specific practices as described in the report. all unfair practices must be stopped, because it is a given that producers only earn 20% on the selling price of an agricultural product. because there is, in fact, a gross profit on the part of the food distribution companies, the food chains, which in effect exploit the producers themselves by blackmailing, by lowering prices, by taking cheques and then not paying, and also the wholesalers, in fact, setting prices such that the producers themselves make no profit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
madam president, the european citizens' initiative is an expression of the principle of participatory democracy in the european union and should be exercised in the most democratic, direct and complete way, without red tape. here is a contradiction: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the european initiative, which calls on the commission to take legislative initiative. but who is to say whether this citizens' initiative is lawful? the commission. so here we have "john drinks and john buys". i mean, technically, what's going on? the commission itself checks whether the legislative initiative is correct, while the initiative itself invites the commission to take a decision. i said that another body should check the legitimacy of the citizens' initiative. in any case, we need a system that gives citizens the opportunity to exercise this right, which is a right of participatory democracy, fully.
the european union remains the main force for the defence of european rights throughout the world. the debate on creating a european mechanism for targeted sanctions against people or governments worldwide who violate human rights is a great challenge and we must all respond positively today to strengthen our credibility among the peoples who seek a europe of solidarity, democracy and humanism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we cannot be driven by political and national interests, as is often the case in this parliament as well as in the council. the european people's party and european far-right parties are turning a blind eye to the human rights violations in the middle east. the european left, on the other hand, does not believe that there is a european and humanitarian crisis in venezuela, with three million refugees and a lack of basic goods. but human rights are not a matter of petty politics. their defense must be non-negotiable.
mr president, the report reflects the real situation in turkey at the moment, namely the violation of the rule of law, human rights, arrests and torture of dissidents and non-dissidents, the manipulation of justice, the persecution of dissidents abroad and the suppression of press freedom. it also points out that turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus, does not allow it to exploit the resources in its economic zone and also constantly violates greece's airspace and territorial waters and, moreover, challenges and does not recognise the principles of international law. all of the above are not just bilateral conflicts between turkey and its neighbours. it is a direct violation of the principles of international law and, in order to force turkey to act, the accession negotiations, the negotiations on the customs union and its financing must be stopped immediately. it is unacceptable for the european union to finance the purchase of cobra ii armoured fighting vehicles from turkey.
mr president, the turkish bourgeoisie is intensifying its aggression, greying territorial waters and airspace with constant violations, illegal navtex military exercises and threats, while the syriza government is involved in the competition as the flag bearer of euro-atlantic plans in confrontation with russia, trying to wash away the dangerous role of the usa-nato-european union and cultivating complacency. the criticisms of erdogan contained in the european union's reports are characterised by the role of strategic partner they attribute to turkey, taking photographs of the euro-european arrangement in the aegean for co-exploitation, as well as a bipartisan plan in cyprus to share the energy pie. the report also makes very questionable, vague references to the settlement of outstanding bilateral disputes, unresolved legal obligations and unresolved disputes with immediate neighbours, in relation to land, sea and air borders. the peoples must be ready to fight against nationalism and the imperialist projects of the european union, nato and the bourgeoisie.
mr president, the so-called suspension, but in fact the definitive halt, of the accession negotiations with turkey. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the siemens and deutsche bank agreement for turkish railways worth 32 billion shows us the privileged sphere of relations between the european union and turkey, which some people envision, without, of course, the annoying copenhagen criteria. but others want it as a punishment for president erdogan's unacceptable violation of the rule of law. but all the democrats in turkey, inside and outside the prisons, and kavala and demirtaş, all the political parties, in a rare moment of solidarity, are asking that we not kill their country's european dream. we know better, don't we? business as usual and alleged moral advantage, hand in hand, are destroying the european perspective of a people in our neighbourhood, and the only instrument of our institutional intervention there, as the greek government rightly claims.
mr president, two years ago before this step, i had pointed out the insidious way in which erdogan's turkey makes deals. i condemned the attempt to buy turkey with a multibillion-euro package to solve the immigration problem. i was, in violation of the rules of procedure, expelled from the chamber by then president schultz. two years later, the union has wasted nearly 5 billion, yet europe is flooded with illegal immigrants. schultz went home a failure on the german political scene, but his disastrous pass remains. weber has adopted my rhetoric, and that makes me not only satisfied but, above all, entitled. i do not see the greek meps of the european people's party accusing weber of racism, as they did in my case. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the patriotic eurosceptic forces will sweep away the patriotic, internationalist and ethno-minimalist tendencies.
mr president, with my speech today i am joining the 2,500 speeches and interventions in the european parliament's plenary during this term and i consider it important that my speech concerns turkey, turkey which continues to illegally occupy 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus, turkey which continues to threaten greece and violates greek territorial waters and greek airspace, turkey which refuses to comply with international law and to allow the greeks of the dodecanese to have access to their property. the commission has, after my intervention, acknowledged the existence of the question of the so-called twelve-country assets. the only way to force ankara to comply is to impose diplomatic and economic sanctions against turkey. the european union and turkey must immediately end the accession negotiations and cease all eu funding to turkey.
mr president, turkey is not even geographically a european country, it does not embrace and does not wish to embrace the values of western civilization, it discriminates against religious minorities, including christians and alevis. the erdogan government fires and prosecutes civil servants, teachers, doctors, academics, lawyers, judges and prosecutors on a daily basis. turkey, by invasion since 1974, illegally occupies a large part of cyprus. turkey is pursuing an aggressive policy against greece, violating its airspace and territorial waters on a daily basis. it refuses to sign and ratify the united nations convention on the law of the sea. turkey supports and finances terrorism. we demand the immediate, formal and definitive cessation of the accession negotiations. we demand the complete cessation of all european financial aid to turkey and, in addition, the application of economic and other sanctions. we call for the formal renunciation by turkey of all expansionist claims against greece and for the full and tax-free release of the occupied cypriots. until then, this murderous state has no place at the table with the member states of the union. in the european union, turkey has no place and should never have a place.
mr president, only the venezuelan people are competent to decide for themselves their future and the internal affairs of their own country. we condemn and denounce the imperialist plans being promoted with provocations, contact groups and all subversive means by the united states, the european union and their allied governments in latin america, to overthrow the elected president of venezuela, putting their straw man. all of them were not overcome by the pain of the venezuelan people. their goal is to control the energy of a country rich in natural resources. we condemn any scenario of a coup and an imperialist military attack, which is called humanitarian aid or other pretexts. we express our solidarity with the people of venezuela, who are suffering from the capitalist crisis, and with the struggle of the communist party of venezuela. imperialism is not invincible. the real superpower is the people and they will win.
mr president, let us speak the truth for once in this chamber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the union itself is the source of the greatest proportion of propaganda directed at citizens. you're only bothered by anything that goes against your interests. the union is financing hundreds of non-governmental organizations which propagandize the ideologies of the forces currently in action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. on the contrary, with a paternalistic logic, you feel that only you can point them to the right view. you think the people are free to vote for whoever they want, as long as they agree with you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in our time of rapid technological development, the principles and methods of propaganda can be applied in many different ways, the most important of which is the distortion of the truth and the dissemination of false news. a basic principle for a democratic society to be able to counter hostile propaganda is to present the truth to the public and not to prosecute political opponents and journalists who criticize the government or present various scandals. at national level, objective and impartial public information is achieved by the establishment of a functioning broadcasting system. but many times, this system doesn't work right. this is the case in greece, where the national radio and television has become a party organ of the ruling party and even goes so far as not to invite the mps and meps of the party to which i belong, golden dawn, which is the third political force in the country, to the broadcasts. as you can see, with such methods there is a lack of credibility and it is not possible to counter any enemy propaganda.
mr president, we are talking here about disinformation, propaganda, fake news, but this must also be applied against the european parliament itself, because, as you all know, the european parliament commissioned a polling company to carry out a poll on the european elections, which polling company, instead of carrying out a poll, took the national polls, polls carried out for national elections and drew conclusions about who is elected and who is not elected from this european parliament, how many meps of us will not be elected and how many will allegedly be elected. this is black propaganda, on the eve of the european elections, it is fake news, it is guided propaganda against specific meps. this must be denounced and prohibited and the european parliament must put an end to this practice, because it is shameful and all our colleagues must stand up for it. we must not allow the fake news that some of us will not be elected because a polling company says so and this has been reproduced in all the media, all over europe. it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace!
mr president, monaco, andorra and san marino are three micro-states which have been and are known as tax havens, as areas where of course multinationals or the very rich go and settle, and the role they play is well known. now, with the association agreement, that is supposed to be eliminated. i am particularly concerned about whether this will happen, whether they will stop being tax havens, whether they will proceed with transparency in the regulations imposed by the european union. i ask: can one practice law in monaco? because it's not allowed. i ask: what about family law, especially in monaco, which discriminates against women? there are issues with child custody, relationships also with the operation of banks. these are serious matters which must be followed up. some of it, because there's a lot more. and around the concept of flexibility, we must not allow all these unacceptable practices.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up on the basis of the following four points: mr president, six years have passed since the commission announced the european accessibility act. today we are called upon to vote for it weakened as never before, because the voices of the disabled have not been heard. we have tried to incorporate the disabled people's proposals through hundreds of amendments, but the conservative forces in parliament voted against them. so we have no accessible, structured environment, nor an extended scope of the directive. the worst part is that we need at least another six years before we see the directive implemented. what an insult to the disability movement! but we respect the disabled and that is why we will continue to fight for the rights of the disabled until all obstacles are removed.
mr president, as has been said, there are 80 million disabled people in the european union, unfortunately, and another 150 million elderly people, and it is clear that serious measures must be taken to ensure full access to services and products. we must take seriously the fact that the disabled really have difficulties in participating in the social, economic and political life of the european union and that is why very specific measures are needed and we have a great many complaints, mr president, which we have received in the committee on petitions from thousands of citizens of the european union. i think that the following rules should be in place: no project, whether public or private, should be financed from community funds, from european union funds, if there is no provision for full accessibility. this must be a criterion for approving the various financing.
mr president, money laundering, money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance must be tackled. and after the commission has finally been persuaded to draw up a blacklist of countries which evade tax, we see that the council refuses to go through with this procedure. it actually blocks the issuing of the blacklist of tax evasion countries. why would you do that? because that's where panama is? because it is saudi arabia? beyond that, there is another issue: the issue of transparency. when we say the council, which countries do we mean? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if not, i want you to tell us which countries were the obstacles. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. we want a very specific answer to that question, mrs ciot.
you had a lot of criticism from almost all the political groups and a lot of questions. we are very interested to hear your answers.
the motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report of mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 767/2008, regulation (ec) no 810/2009, regulation (eu) 2017/2226, regulation (eu) 2016/399, regulation (eu) no xxx/2018 [interoperability regulation] and decision 2004/512/ec, and repealing council decision 2008/633/jha (com (2018) 0302 - c8-0185/2018 - 2018/0152 (cod)) (a8-0078/2019).
mr president, the visa information system really needs a lot of improvement and i think that the measures taken in this direction can really meet the needs. but mr avramopoulos, let me ask you a question, because i am afraid that soon all those of us who fly from greece to belgium will need a visa. i had reported to you the unacceptable quarantine effect which had been imposed at german airports and at brussels airport, and i had received a reply from you on 23 november that you had found it to be in compliance with the requirements. i am telling you that on 19 february and 5 march this quarantine system was re-introduced and that in one case the so-called police officers appeared and in the other the so-called customs officers. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of checks on the movement of persons, which is a very important one. is that legal? can this procedure be continued at brussels airport? we need an answer, commissioner. specific measures to be taken. soon we'll need visas from greece and brussels. (the president cut off the speaker)
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 march 2019. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs miriam dalli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the asylum and migration fund (com ((2018) 0471 - c8-0271/2018 - 2018/0248 ((cod)) (a8-0106/2019).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at a time when there are huge flows of refugees and migrants in the european union. and above all, it must support the first-host countries, the countries that are really experiencing the great flows of migrants and refugees, where the inhabitants are really struggling and supporting the effort of their countries to stand up and at the same time to host the unfortunate refugees. but of course we also have very, very many illegal immigrants flooding the aegean islands at the moment and i think it is rightly said in the report that there should be a strong emphasis on returns because we have to look at this issue decisively, particularly for the aegean islands, particularly for greece where we have thousands of illegal immigrants who are not entitled to international protection and they should really go back to the countries from which they came.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we know that at this moment moria has crossed its limits on lesvos, as has the hot spot on samos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to raise the issue, mr avramopoulos, of border control on the continent, on the greek-albanian border, because frontex is present at the moment. however, unfortunately, the illegal entry of criminals from albania continues, villages have been literally devastated, and i think that we must have a high level of security here, there must be thermal cameras and, of course, there must be cooperation with the customs authorities, because customs fraud also occurs.
madam president, the homeland security fund should focus on hitting organized crime, and especially cross-border crime. it's something we have to watch out for. i would like to suggest that there should also be cooperation between greece and bulgaria, because crossborder crime has increased very much, mr avramopoulos. in addition to the fact that we have a lot of illegal immigrants coming from turkey, bulgaria and then greece, we now have gangs of criminals and thugs who literally flood the center of thessaloniki with robberies, thefts and then return to bulgaria. this issue must be addressed. it's dominant right now. on the other hand, as has been said, the internal security fund should not be a funder of intelligence cooperation, nor should we have a kind of privatization of internal security. these are areas where we need to pay attention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it means, in effect, the rejection of any federalisation that is being planned and the beginning of a new european union, which will be reflected in the forthcoming elections. a transformation based on the rise of healthy patriotic forces aimed at the proper functioning of the union as it should be, repatriating competences under the sovereignty of the member states. the intimidation of the remaining members by the allegedly exemplary treatment of the united kingdom will collapse. the powers that be now, refusing to accept voluntary and two-way cooperation between independent sovereign states, will sooner or later be forced either to withdraw or to respect national sovereignty and the concept of the nation-state. it is time for serious people to take over, serving the people as real representatives, the fruit of a broad-based pooling and cooperation of patriotic forces in every european country. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in the world economy. it is important for everyone in the european union to realise that brexit has sent a strong message that the people of europe are looking for another way to europe, a europe of nations and homelands, a europe which respects national traditions and peoples, a democratic and decentralised europe, a europe of solidarity and not of the hard core, a social europe and not a europe of the banks. the european people cannot stand the austerity and the forcible fiscal adjustment imposed by the eurogroup and the european central bank and will soon send a strong message in the forthcoming european elections. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so.
mr president, i voted in favour of the clean air strategy despite the objections of the european people's party for two very serious reasons. first of all, the national ceilings for the six main pollutants that are destroying our health, the health of citizens and causing many diseases are being lowered. secondly, because pollution, as you know, knows no borders, knows no borders, and that is why we must insist that the international rules on transnational pollution be even more demanding on the part of the european union. but above all, we must mobilise citizens and local authorities to adopt environmentally friendly transport and replace old vehicles with the contribution of the european union. the example to be avoided in this case is the oecd model in thessaloniki. buses that pollute our air, do not serve the citizens and, instead of investing in new vehicles, only recruitment for the election.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he was celebrating a tiny increase in the minimum wage by abolishing collective bargaining. the blackmail of workers to accept full parttime work and the redundancies increased. supermarket invites workers to bless the boss because they get 300 euros instead of zero. he was celebrating the fact that he didn't cut his pension for the 23rd time. as a member of the parliament's economic committee, i asked the president of the eurogroup, mr centeno: will they cut again if surpluses are not seized? the answer is clear: silence. the european semester reveals why: the committee is here and full of anti-people measures. the main objective of the union is to dismantle public social security, which, in the name of demographic ageing, is diverting public funds from social security funds to large enterprises. competitiveness with pensions, charity, work until death, active ageing for anyone with private insurance. her reserves? free to trade through the stock exchange. the european union with neo-liberal far-right or pseudo-progressive fronts like syriza is only getting worse and more dangerous for the people.
madam president, the european semester is a system whereby the european union, and in particular the council and the commission, interfere with the exclusive competences of the member states, because economic policy has nothing to do with the competences of the european union. it is the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. does the european union have any competence in relation to pension systems? i don't know. and yet, with the directions it gives, it shapes the climate. and if there are governments that are likely to react, then they're blacklisted by the markets. it is therefore a way in which brussels interferes with the sovereign rights of the member states. it would be good if brussels exercised its own exclusive powers and left the rest to the member states, both in wage policy and in pension policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is able to compete with the rest of the world in the market for credit cards. the banking sector is an important pillar of the member states' economies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must identify the strategic defaulters and make them pay. but the banks are responsible for the uncontrolled granting of unsecured loans. millions of citizens in the member states of the union, mainly because of the economic crisis, are unable to pay their debts and are even in danger of losing their homes. the banks, through recapitalisations of citizens' money, continue to operate. for citizens facing a problem of survival due to their debts, measures should be taken, such as protecting their main residence and providing facilities for repayment of their loans, especially for the unemployed, low-wage workers and the most vulnerable social groups.
madam president, we must of course reduce non-performing loans because they are too high, 600 billion euros. but we must do so by ensuring adequate protection of consumers against speculative practices, and neither the commission's proposal does this adequately nor the joint compromise proposal between the european people's party and the socialist group. and also, if we want a sound banking system, we have to ensure that the unregulated banking sector is subject to and obeys the same rules of transparency and accountability, and that again is not guaranteed by this proposal, and that is why we cannot support it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs esther de lange, you have had the edis file in your hands for four years and you are holding up a deadline and nothing has been done and the mandate is over. the risk has been reduced, but risk sharing has not gone one step further, whereas it is proposed by the commission, and supported by the european central bank and a large section of the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, the syriza government, after having given 20 million to the pharmaceutical industry the day before yesterday, agreed to voluntary, not mandatory, taxation of the shipowners' crumbs, tax exemptions for banks and funds for eight years, is now taking the brunt of the damage on the backs of the people. it completely abolishes any judicial protection of the first homes of thousands of working class families from auctions. in 2019, they plan 20,000 auctions with the sole decision of banks and funds where thousands of loans and bank employees waiting for dismissal are transferred. one-year loan arrangements that are impossible to meet for the few who will enter them because of the strictest criteria. free auctions on the red loans from now on. the discussions in the eurogroup do not change their decision to hold 100,000 auctions in three years. and another is recapitalization of banks to fund the capital. memorandum and oversight of duration. no pseudo-progressive front can hide this deeply reactionary policy. in the case of the european union, the european parliament has been the first to express its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the slogan "no house in the hands of bankers" should mobilize working class families, become a criterion in their attitude to elections.
madam president, we are talking about red loans in the union, at a time when in greece the greeks who have been impoverished by the memoranda are in danger of losing their homes to crows. although the greek people, with their over-indebtedness due to memoranda, saved the foreign lenders and the banks, although greece was owed 288 billion euros, in the end the troika led by the ecb and draghi demand from the banks to sell the red loans to the crows instead of a billboard. the tsipras government, as well as previous memorandum governments, allowed the problem of red loans to grow. now the tsipras government is abolishing the protection of primary residence and throwing borrowers north to the usurers. the only solution is to create a sovereign-debt rescue fund that will buy up the red loans at the price of the first offer made by the crows, a proposal we put forward two years ago. stop right here and now at the prime-home auctions. no house in the hands of a banker. this should be the main slogan in the forthcoming european elections. because for greece there is another way.
madam president, banks are part of the economy of a state. it is therefore logical to take an interest in their survival, in their failure, in their ability to grant loans which will help to develop and to find work and employment. the main objective, however, is not the survival of the banks but the help of borrowers who are unable to repay the loans they have taken out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the tragic consequences of this phenomenon are felt in greece, where millions of greeks, because of the economic devastation of the country caused by the memoranda, are unable to pay their loans, which are becoming red and thousands of them are losing their homes every day. recently, two days ago, a 54-year-old man committed suicide when government officials came to confiscate his home. that must be the effort we must make. protect these people, protect their first home, and give them the ability to pay back the loans they've taken out.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, do we need a european stability fund? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i say this because in greece we have suffered painfully, on the backs of the greek people, the painful consequences of the wrong neoliberal prescriptions and the wrong multipliers of the international monetary fund. and we now need a european stability fund which, as mrs hübner said, must be incorporated into the european legal order, work according to the community method and be accountable also to the european parliament, and not just to the national parliaments, because this is not ensured by the intergovernmental method, but by the community method. and, moreover, it must not only replace the imf, but also replace the imf's recipe, the schäuble doctrine, neoliberalism. and that is why we need to make positive changes, to make it accountable not only to the european parliament but also to the court of auditors. and we need a vice-president of the commission, responsible for the euro area, not just the economy, but also social cohesion. if we do not do that, we will fall far short of the requirements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, much has been written about the creation of a european monetary fund, following in the footsteps of the hated international monetary fund, which has destroyed entire countries and societies, with its latest victim, greece, as its experimental animal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main reason is the structure and the policy of the euro area. a eurozone that has been structured to serve german interests. a eurozone that operates under the straitjacket of the stability pact, imposing austerity and violent fiscal adjustment. for this reason, the stability pact must be abolished, the ecb must be transformed into a lender of last resort, the european system of central banks must be decentralized and the member states must regain their monetary sovereignty up to their percentage of participation in the capital of the ecb.
mr president, regulation 868 must certainly be implemented, because only then will unfair competition by companies from third countries, which have actually found the opportunity, partly because of the inaction of the european union, to compete unfairly with european companies, be stopped. but there must also be competition on the inside, on domestic flights. i would like to point out once again, commissioner, mr oettinger, the issue of the airline aegean, which is a virtual monopoly in greece, and there are very expensive tickets. from crete to fly to athens, you pay more than you pay for a ticket from athens to berlin. this is also true of the expensive tickets to the aegean islands. there must be measures on these issues too. i've been reporting it since november 2018. i haven't heard back. we cannot have this monopoly regime in greece, with overpriced tickets from crete to mainland greece, from the islands to mainland greece.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. because we all know the challenges that brexit creates. but we must focus on how this budget will pursue policies that empower young people and women. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european research area. to have sustainable growth with jobs, and that means supporting youth employment. the young people, who have now come back into the spotlight as they fight for the environment. and we welcome the mobilisations of young people across europe for the environment, because they are sending a decisive message. the young people that need to be supported by horizon 2020 for research institutions, for academia, for opportunities in education, so that there can be much more funding in the famous youth employment initiative. and from that point on, of course, all european union policies must support women and we must bear in mind, mr oettinger, that we must strengthen european union policies which take into account the integration of the gender dimension. this is very important if we are to be able to move forward, at last, towards gender equality.
mr president, i want to welcome this amendment to the brussels ii regulation. from my experience as a former minister of justice in the czech republic, i remember how very different the procedures of the courts of the various member states were in cases of international child abduction. this proposal, which clarifies existing european legislation, will certainly help bring the practice of courts closer together and make it more predictable how individual courts will decide. i very much welcome the introduction of time limits for courts to decide, because different courts in different member states have decided very differently in time on similar cases in the case of children. i think that's a big change. it is good that the question of when the child is not extradited, the question of the child's interrogation and so on is specified. so as a practitioner, i say: this is definitely a good thing and it will contribute to better protection of children and it is a clear reaction to the fact that we have more and more married couples from different countries of the european union and international child abductions by one of the parents are a reality.
mr president, the revision of regulation 2201/2003 is indeed of particular interest, as it covers a wide range of family law issues. because, as we know, we have international marriages and, of course, there are often divorces, annulments of marriages and even big disputes about parental custody of children, as well as about parental obligations, such as the maintenance obligation. the process of returning children is an important process, as we often have child abduction. in many cases, we also have the placement of the child in another state, i.e. he is given to a foster family or an institution. in the committee on petitions we have had many complaints about the discriminatory treatment of non-german european citizens by the notorious jugendamt in germany. i think that all that we are discussing is interesting, it is very important, the issue of declaring the decision enforceable must be resolved and, of course, there must be recognition of judicial decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and i think the objectives, as they have been mentioned, are important, based primarily on democracy, solidarity, the protection of human rights. and the key element, of course, for sustainable growth is first of all to create jobs. because it is possible to have growth without jobs. we want growth with jobs. and above all, it must be done in a way that is resource-efficient, that is resource-efficient for the people themselves, especially the people of the developing world, in order to fight poverty and achieve social justice. in this way, the flow of migration from the developing world to europe will be reduced and democracy can be established in both the european union and the developing world.
madam president, the system of generalised preferences, with the reduction of tariffs, was put in place in order to supposedly support the developing world. but what we saw was that it was mainly exploited by multinationals, who outsourced cheap labor to the developing world, where there is no standard for protecting the health and safety of workers, nor for wages, nor, of course, for human rights. and what is happening in practice is that there is social dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. so in practice, this whole system, instead of helping the workers themselves, has actually made them poorer in the developing countries and has only increased the profits of the multinationals at the expense of the workers and the small and mediumsized enterprises of the european union.
mr president, i think that the debate has shown that there is a serious problem of protecting democratic rights in kazakhstan. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. they did not support the creation of a civil society, a place where democratic rights actually function. but on the other hand, the west has also been torturing these countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to finance its own activities. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights. this is the reality, when one only looks at how the multinationals are making a profit without being interested, of course, in the development of democracy. we support democracy and we want to support democracy, which is why we support this resolution.
mr president, everyone should now be able to understand the inherent pathologies of the so-called single market of the european union: lux leaks, panama papers, paradise papers, football leaks, bahamas leaks, camp ex and how many other financial scandals have not been revealed show the scale of the problem. the single market cannot exist as long as there are different tax systems in the member states. as long as this is the case, we shall be forced into legal tax avoidance for the benefit of the big companies and those in general who have the money and the means to do so. but the handing over of taxation to the european union would be tantamount to the abolition of the nation states, and that is unacceptable to us. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. finally, as regards the possibility of control by the european parliament, we agree and support the granting of such rights. the only directly elected body of the union is the one which has the legal right to do so. on the occasion of the national anniversary of the 1821 revolution, i wish all greeks: happy birthday and long live the nation!
madam president, even as we speak, many companies operating on the internet and especially in the area of social media are applying censorship based solely on the wishes and interests of their owners. how can private entities be justified in restricting fundamental freedoms? content marking and categorization can be used as a tool to stigmatize or expel unwanted or competing ideas and people. for example, the mere mention of my name or the posting of my speech to the european parliament's plenary session on a particular social network is enough to penalize the account holder with a penalty of being banned for a relatively long time or to have his profile closed. if we add to this already bleak environment for freedom of speech orwellian-inspired software that will detect forbidden words, we understand that we are laying the foundations for a suppression of freedoms taken from the darkest pages of history, appropriate only to soviet regimes. so i ask you: is this the future you want for the union? we certainly do not and that is why we shall vote against this report and especially against this provision.
the fight for intellectual property rights began as a technical debate, but in the process it has become a battle for the soul of europe, that is, its culture and its values. the agreement does more than ensure that artists and creators survive in the digital age. it also demonstrates something more serious: that the european union has the courage to confront the technological giants and their potential to mislead citizens and politicians. i am surprised that some colleagues do not seem to understand this. so after two and a half years of negotiations, five different committees and three votes in the plenary, we have the best possible result. it is characteristic that the directive is supported by all the official bodies of creators and artists, who have discussed it a lot. as the socialist rapporteur on the committee on culture, i would therefore urge all colleagues who are in favour of an open and free but also fair internet to support the outcome of the tripartite dialogue. it will not only be a battle for europe's present but also for its future.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the erdf and the cohesion funds to combat poverty, inequality and unemployment is a repetition of the well-known fables about the european union and its governments. this was judged in greece, where in the years of the capitalist crisis greece excelled in absorption of the euro-dollars and poverty soared, part-time or flexible employment exploded, plunging the people even deeper into the dead end. the european union's funds, all the sweat of the people's savage tax evasion, are being directed to strengthening the european union's monopolies. at the same time, flood control, fire control, earthquake control, vital health and education needs are not met by the profit criterion of the monopolies and, in addition, fines, selectivity, the bill is passed through the drains and taxation back to the people. with a strong kke the demands of the popular workers' movement will gain a stronger voice in the struggle for total upheavals, so that all these funds will finance projects essential to the relief and satisfaction of the people's needs.
mr president, today we took a very important step. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the european creators, authors, journalists must be compensated when their work is used by the major platforms. copyright can also work in the digital single market. start-ups, platforms that are just starting out, that have no life span of more than three years, that have a turnover of less than ten million, that have less than five million visitors a month, should not be subject to the same checks and standards that big platforms are subject to. however, we must all pay compensation to the creators. it's the creators who give meaning to all this effort. the digital world needs to be governed by rules. even as digital life evolves faster than legislation, we are here as co-legislators and we must give citizens the tools to protect their work.
madam president, the decisions on the allegedly free and fair elections do not serve democracy but, on the contrary, openness and party democracy. the creation of non-existent enemies is done so that the european elites cannot face the change and the mistakes they themselves have made. the answer is clear: only patriotic movements can bring about responsible governance for the benefit of the commanding citizens and a return to cooperation between independent sovereign states. i would also point out that, while you condemn disinformation, the european union is openly seeking to promote political ideas and to cultivate a particular mentality and perception. just as the paid agents of the turkish mit misinform by flooding undisturbed into the european parliament, just as the albanians so-called chamids as genuine donors serve the ideology of greater albania, just as those political traitors handed over the name of macedonia to the slav albanian skopjeans, falsifying history and distorting the truth. the european union is not a spectator but a participant in these conflicts, against the security and vital interests of member states such as greece. obviously the threat is within the walls. that is why the united kingdom is leaving and why salvini is turning his back on you.
the way in which the european union is handling the issue of brexit is indicative of the wrong policy it is pursuing in dealing with all the serious issues it is facing. instead of reflecting and trying to correct the mistakes that were made and which forced the british people to seek to leave the european union, it wishes to punish and humiliate the british people. in the same spirit, with the same philosophy, it seeks to punish hungary and poland by applying the provisions of article 7 against them, mr orbán's fidesz party, and it is also in this spirit that for nine consecutive years it has punished greece and the greek people, whom it has impoverished with the continuous memoranda it has imposed on them, and does not wish to reduce the heavy debt that the greek people have suffered. punishment then, and only punishment! this is the philosophy of the european union and that is precisely why in two months' time the ancient goddess of punishment, nemesis, will appear in this european parliament, in the presence of many patriotic parties in this area.
mr president, as you know from your mother, the ancient greeks said that there is no evil without good. so what about the chaos that brexit is going to create? we can see through this that the effects of populism are being revealed. the absolute lies that mr farage has told, the absolute illusions that his co-thinkers have told. so what's going on in the brexit chaos? we see the danger of behaving punitively towards the citizens of the united kingdom and we must not do so. we must give them every opportunity to choose. what's going on in the brexit chaos? we see the danger of hurting ourselves too with a disorderly move, with a disorderly brexit move. what do i think we should do? we must show that we are the european parliament. to give the people of the united kingdom the opportunity to behave with sobriety. to judge and decide their own future again. we should support a second referendum.
mr president, the advantages for the citizens of an acceding country such as kosovo of being exempt from the visa requirement are obvious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this respect, the government of kosovo, despite some efforts, has failed to meet most of the necessary conditions. apart from the fact that it has not fought organized crime, it has allowed the country to become a haven for isis terrorists and killers. moreover, it is provoking the neighbouring countries with its behaviour. for example, we see that there are ongoing border incidents with serbia. in addition, it imposes customs duties on products coming from serbia. it is also planning a confederation with albania, which is known to have expansionist ambitions and territorial claims on the partition of the greek mainland. in these circumstances, i think it is unthinkable at this moment to discuss both the recognition of kosovo and the removal of the obstacle arising from the need to have a visa for its citizens.
the european union, with the blessing of the european parliament, is setting up the european peace facility. brecht has long answered you: when those on high speak of peace, the common people know war is coming. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, because this new reactionary mechanism has as its mission the immediate and direct financing of military units for imperialist interventions by the european union and its governments; because it doubles military expenditure for such missions, bringing it to 1.5 billion per year; because, provocatively, in the name of equality, it invites women in particular to join these missions, which are dangerous for the peoples. seventy years after the founding of nato, twenty years after the common security and defence policy of the european union, twenty years after the murderous bombing of yugoslavia by nato, a mechanism is being set up to systematize imperialist interventions. the peoples, in their common struggle, must point out the real opponents: the monopolies, their system, their imperialist associations and governments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, and our own assessment is that erasmus+ is a programme that has been embraced by the young people of europe. it is therefore important to give more young people the opportunity to come into contact with different educational systems, with different cultures, with different habits, with different cultures. we too propose that the budget for this programme be tripled so that it can be used by more people and not just by a few. but we want to say that we are against the commission's instrumental approach to this programme in order to pass on neoliberal views in the field of education. first, the increasing link between education and the private sector; second, competition between institutions for excellence; third, the shaping of curricula solely on the basis of labour market requirements are unfortunately some of these characteristics of workaholism. so yes to cooperation and exchange, no to exploiting the future of young people!
mr president, mr löfven, you have set the right goals when you speak of the fundamental values of the european union, but in order to defend the gothenburg social agenda it must not remain a mere label, it must become binding policies. to defend the goals that greta thunberg has set, we must put more resources, as the european union, into tackling climate change. in order to deal with the violations of democracy, you must also help the council to invoke article 7 of the treaty against the governments of hungary and poland, as requested by the european parliament and the commission. you must help to revise european asylum policy, because the commission and the european parliament have approved the reforms but they are being worked out in the council. i am very concerned that in olof palme's country one in five voters votes for far-right anti-semites. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the amendment of directive 2009/73/ec on rules for the internal market in natural gas is a key element of the european union’s energy security strategy, but allow me to say that it’s time to take some distance from russia concerning the dominant role that it plays in the supplies in the eu. this directive, among others, forms a firm and clear regulatory framework to ensure affordable and sustainable energy for all european consumers. this is achieved by ensuring a level playing field for those involved in the eu energy market, as well as security and predictability for the potential investors, and this is extremely important as well. but it is not enough just to have energy security and economic and sustainable energy. investments that are compatible with the directive should be exploited and supported – supported in geopolitical terms, in geostrategic terms and in geostrategic balances. such an investment is also the eastmed pipeline, which has major challenges to face. however, a firm political decision by the eu to support it will send a clear message of european determination to promote energy security in the southeast mediterranean. beyond the ambitious plan, such as the eastmed pipeline, i should also mention the very positive development of the approval of the eur 33 million funding of the gas interconnector greece-bulgaria (igb) pipeline that will interconnect my country, greece, and bulgaria for the first time, diversifying the energy mix in the region and enhancing competition. the final beneficiaries will be european citizens. while it is worth noting that igb will also be interconnecting with the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap), widening even further the european demand (inaudible). this is the way in which energy security becomes a reality: with a robust legal framework and strong financial support, but also firm political will.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. a major obstacle to the profitability and competitiveness of capital, namely the gains in pensions and health, public social security after years of cuts are being leveled. corporations and the state not only get rid of their burden but they profit off the backs of the workers. it's pure private insurance, supplemented by state starvation pensions for work-related deaths with active aging, if you're left with it to invest in at a shrunken salary. no guarantee whatsoever that you'll get back what you gave. all the gambling reserves of the stock market, free financing of big business. another gift to these banks and private insurance companies. alert now for workers, old and new. black on the real front of neoliberal social democrats, supposedly left-wing syriza type who hide their identity here with false dilemmas and dilemmas. class struggle and strengthening of the communists is the only guarantee for social security and workers' rights.
the european union must be concerned first and foremost with respect for its citizens and their work. we are seeking to limit privatisation and to strengthen public universal social security systems. however, it is a product of a purely investment nature, which is compulsory for the member states and which will benefit from tax incentives and reductions. the principles of a fair and sustainable system are simple: compulsory insurance, a guaranteed adequate pension, proportionality and stability of contributions, remuneration of benefits, support for the continuity of contributions with redistributive conditions, long-term structured saving and the creation of reserves, so that the state pension system is sustainable and dignified for citizens. while every citizen should have the right to choose any additional private voluntary pension options, the state has the essential obligation to establish a regulatory framework with appropriate rules to avoid creating unfair competition to the detriment of the state system.
madam president, just before the elections, what message will the european parliament send to the citizens? that he wants to make, at the end of our term, the big players in the markets richer with the savings of the workers? the european council is rushing to strengthen markets with the savings of workers struggling to age. on the other hand, governments cannot even agree on the benefits workers get when they move from one country to another. i would ask you to consider and commit to strengthening public pensions by voting against the pan-european private pension.
madam president, the creation of a family is perhaps the most important moment in the life of any human being. moreover, it is the way in which the continuity of our nations is ensured. it should therefore be protected at all costs and young people should be encouraged to decide to take this big step. this is especially true of those who are working. we cannot allow the creation of a family to be punished by work or to place more burdens on one of the parents, either the father or the mother. we therefore fully support the introduction of a european-wide right to parental leave for both parents. we also believe that there should be specific and legislative flexibility and leave for parents until the age at which children can provide for a significant part of their daily needs, and specifically for us until the age of 12. finally, special attention should be given to parents of children with disabilities, as they face even greater challenges than others, and to carers' leave for workers who care for a seriously ill relative.
mr president, how do you define the word "father"? "it is the arc from which children like living arrows start to go forward", wrote khalil gibran in his poem "the prophet". the work-life balance directive is not what i envisioned when i started working on this file. unfortunately, she didn't review her maternity leave despite our pressure. the commission has also made very little provision for parental leave for working parents. but it is a first step that will allow millions of parents in europe to be in their children's lives today so that they can be in their children's memories tomorrow. we are working for that tomorrow and we will continue to work for a more social and fairer europe, a europe of the future.
mr president, i would like to ask my colleagues to vote in favour of lifting my immunity because after the murder of my son, george foudoulis, by terrorists who are still at large, after dozens of attacks and destruction of our offices with explosive and incendiary devices by left-wing extremists and the indifference of the greek police to protect us, we have committed the enormous crime of installing security cameras to .... (the president withdraws the speaker. )
mr president, the recognition by the european parliament of the genocide of the pontic greeks is now a historical necessity, and even more so this year, which marks the 100th anniversary of the genocide of the pontic greeks. in 1919, after kemal pasha's decision in the samsun of pontus, the new turks proceeded to mass slaughter and murder... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the recognition by the european parliament of the genocide of the pontic greeks is now a historical necessity, and even more so this year, which marks the 100th anniversary of the genocide of the pontic greeks. in 1919, after kemal pasha's decision in the sampsunda of pontus, the new turks proceeded to mass massacres and murders of thousands of pontic greeks; over 350,000 men, women and children were the victims of the genocide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore ask that a statement by the commission on the recognition of the genocide of the pontic greeks between 1914 and 1923 be added to the agenda for monday and that a resolution be adopted. we also call for a roll-call vote on this request and we call on our colleagues in the european parliament to support this proposal as a historic duty, especially this year, which marks the 100th anniversary of the genocide of the pontic greeks.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, the arrest of julian assange is a glimpse into our future; a future of unfreedom and repression, where any exposure of the barbarity and illegality of neoliberal totalitarianism will be considered a crime by the governments of the western world. the arrest of assange by the british government at the behest of the united states was done because the website wikileaks revealed the brutality of the interventions of the united states and its allies in the middle east and elsewhere, as well as the violation of human rights and international law. this is how the imperialist powers treat freedom of expression and militant journalism that reveals their darkest sides in the interests of democracy, transparency and truth. the arrest of assange concerns us all. we have a duty to protect those who wield political and economic power. if we want a different future for europe, a different future for our world, we must join forces with the movement in defence of freedom of expression and information.
madam president, we are discussing a very important issue, the protection of witnesses, who of course have the possibility of informing the authorities and thus clarifying the situation in cases of fraud, tax evasion, money laundering. this debate on whistleblowers has been repeated here and in the committee on petitions, and i think the steps we are taking are particularly important, because without the protection of these people, there will be no revelation of the scandals that have been. we had the luxleaks problem, we had massive tax evasion, we had the illegal operation of multinationals. all these operations and actions can only be brought to light and punished by the public authorities if whistleblowers are protected. i think that our work in this area is important.
madam president, the protection of witnesses in the public interest is a serious but sensitive issue. there is no doubt that whosoever denounces an act which harms the public interest, such as corruption, fraud, tax evasion, pollution of the environment, violation of nuclear safety, etc., makes a decisive contribution not only to the prevention of such illegal acts but also to the smooth functioning of the rule of law. that's why we need to protect the witnesses. otherwise, if their identity is revealed, they risk being subjected to threats, attacks and 'definitely' intimidation and will henceforth cease to report any irregularity that comes to their attention. however, care must be taken to ensure that protected witnesses are not slandered and blackmailed, let alone used as false witnesses in politically motivated trials. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the development of the european capital market is indeed a necessity, especially at a time when the banking system itself cannot meet the liquidity needs of the real economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in practice, they are part and parcel of what we call the 'casino economy', which is why there must be an extra check. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union.
madam president, banking reform was certainly necessary after the enormous crisis that has hit societies over the last decade. of course, the conclusion is that the taxpayers bailed out the banks and then the banks - especially in greece - are attacking the taxpayers, the greek people, in order to allegedly regulate the red loans and so the "crows" are grabbing the homes of the greek people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. i would like to see a check on the relationship between banks and the media, with those who own radio and television, especially in greece, and with polling companies. we see that in the run-up to the european elections, those who criticize the banks are excluded from the media in greece, as in the case of our movement "greece - the other way". check who has taken loans from the media in greece.
madam president, once again the european union is devising ways of supporting the financial sector by reducing the risk to banks by developing securities on the market backed by government bonds. unfortunately, gentlemen, we've seen this play before. in greece, bondholders who had invested by buying government bonds saw their lifetime's hard work vanish overnight. many greek investors saw their assets lose 53.5% of their value, while the loss today is over 75%. on 12 march 2012, with the infamous psi for the haircut of the greek debt, which was in fact done to rescue european banks, in addition to micro-investors, the greek pension funds also lost around 12 billion euros. this was the principle by which, at the suggestion of the lenders and with the cooperation of the willing greek governments, pensions, main and auxiliary, welfare benefits, stock funds and solidarity funds were reduced. the european union's wrong policies are paid for by the citizens of the european states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial crisis does not lead to a situation where the community is not able to meet its obligations. we had the infamous psi, the government bond haircut, which has driven thousands of microbond holders into poverty, who at this point don't have the money for even medical care. at the same time, the government bonds held by the insurance funds were also "dissolved". the damage exceeded 12 billion euros. but who was exempt? the bonds held by the european central bank were excluded and in this way the european central bank gained and the greek economy was dismantled. the problems of the euro area are not solved by aspirin, as this proposal is, nor by government guarantees of various bonds that banks will issue. the structure of the eurozone needs to be changed; the european union must be a eurozone which serves all the peoples of europe, not german europe.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would again like to express my thanks for the work on the proposed enabling regulatory framework for sovereign bond—backed securities. as i said earlier, i hope that this important file can gain a renewed momentum, including with the council. the commission has taken good note of the modifications that parliament has proposed. we will now study them very carefully with a view to engaging in fruitful discussions, also with the council, in the period ahead. so, once again i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fernández, and i thank you for today’s debate.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the review of the european system of financial supervision is an important building block for achieving a genuine capital markets union. therefore i am pleased that the co-legislators managed to find a political agreement on this very difficult package within just a few weeks during the trilogues in february and march. this allows this house to vote on this important legislative package still before the recess and brings much needed certainty for financial supervision in general and for the european supervisory authorities in particular. however, i must share the diagnosis that the level of ambition of the political agreement on a number of elements is indeed lower than initially proposed by the commission. nevertheless, this result would not have been possible without the very constructive attitude from parliament during the negotiations. parliament has shown in those negotiations that it’s fully aware of the key role of the european supervisory authorities in achieving real market integration. so i would like to say thank you and congratulate the co-rapporteurs, ms berès and mr karas, for this work and for this achievement. and of course i hope for a positive vote in plenary. in my view this political agreement is a significant step towards complementing the single rulebook by more convergence of supervisory practices across the eu. moreover, as a political agreement it is an important step forward to improve the eu’s anti-money laundering framework, broadly matching the ambition of the amended commission proposal of september 2018. the new rules will confer new powers on the european banking authority in anti-money laundering supervision of the financial sector. the three european supervisory authorities (the esas) have a key role in achieving convergence of supervisory outcomes and to ensure a level playing field for financial institutions and investors in the eu. supervisory convergence is a precondition for a fully-fledged capital markets union. truly integrated capital markets can only work properly to the benefit of the economy and consumers if rules are applied in a similar way in all member states. i welcome that the agreement will equip the three esas with new and improved instruments to foster convergence in how the european financial sector is supervised. in particular, i hope that the peer reviews of supervisors will be more effective after this review. moreover, newly established coordination groups will bring differences in supervisory approaches to light and will allow supervisors to cooperate in order to tackle prudential and level-playing-field concerns. finally consistent supervisory outcomes are also facilitated by some additional powers for esma, for direct supervision of certain benchmarks and reporting services. i also welcome the strength and focus of the three authorities on consumer protection, on environmental, social and corporate governance considerations in finance, and on financial technology. regarding governance, the agreement will contribute to more effective decision-making within the esas and i’m confident that the reinforcement of the chairperson’s role and powers will help to improve their governance. finally, the legislators will equip the three esas with the necessary resources for the agreed tasks, even if industry funding originally proposed by the commission was not agreed. i also welcome the political agreement reached on 21 march on the european systemic risk board (esrb) regulation. the esrb plays an important role within the european system of financial supervision in ensuring the stability of the financial system in the eu. this agreement will secure the further improved effectiveness of the esrb. the compromise found in political trilogues takes on board the majority of the amendments put forward by parliament, as well as the council. in particular, it requires the esrb to carry out public consultations on a more systemic basis and strengthens its accountability. furthermore, the compromise raises the visibility of the esrb by giving a stronger role to the vice-chairs and the head of secretariat in the external representation of the esrb. and as requested by parliament, the new regulation also strengthens protection for whistle-blowers. for the anti-money laundering (aml) part of the reform, i would like to hand over to my colleague vĕra jourová.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission considers it a priority to put in place all remaining building blocks for a capital markets union and to complete the banking union. an important element of this picture is to have a working solution to many of the problems witnessed in the prevention and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in the financial sector, given the serious cases we recently had in europe involving european banks. as you know, this proposal of 2017 was further developed in september 2018 with a distinct element to better address anti-money laundering and redefine the role of the three supervisory agencies in this respect. we are very pleased that political agreement was reached on this very important file. the new rules will ensure that powers related to the prevention and mitigation of risks of money laundering in the financial sector will be centralised at the european banking authority. the new legal framework will strengthen its mandate for collecting, analysing and further disseminating information to ensure that all relevant authorities effectively and consistently supervise the risks of money laundering and that they cooperate and share information. the authority’s power to act where union law is breached has also been clarified and enhanced so as to guarantee that action can be taken immediately when anti-money laundering rules are broken at national level. this agreement required very intense work and a strong commitment by all the parties. i would like to thank the european parliament and the romanian presidency for their efforts to reach an agreement in such a short timeframe. it is indeed reassuring to have seen the three institutions united to achieve improvements in this very important field.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr karas referred earlier to the report he had drawn up two or three years ago - perhaps even earlier - on the role of the troika in greece, and i think that was an important report. however, the conclusions reached had no tangible effect, since the troika continued the same work in greece and, at the same time, there was no compensation to the greek people for what they suffered. the damage that even mr dijsselbloem admitted in a question i asked him, when he said that the measures taken in greece had in fact saved the euro and the foreign banks, not the greek people. it is clear that there is a need for supervision and there is a need for measures, as the commission has said, to combat money laundering. there's the key. we must confront all these practices if we want to have democracy in the european union, if we want the supervisory system to work seriously and if we really want to stamp out this scourge called dirty money.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my sympathy to the french people for the blow that france - and indeed all of humanity - has suffered with the catastrophe caused by the fire at notre dame de paris, a monument of european heritage. the debate we are having today on the prudential supervision of investment firms is important because it brings order to the matter and measures are being taken to ensure that there is supervision. supervision of particularly large investment firms, which may also involve systemic risk and where rules are correctly applied which are related to - and would seem to be similar for the most part - to the rules on banking supervision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that is where we are right to take these measures. however, we must also take brexit into account, because most of these businesses are based in london. it takes regulation and care in this matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you use the minimum to justify the worst. you don't give rights to the worker; you give rights to the employers. as long as they inform, of course, by passing a little book about the conditions of the working jungle. you are legalising the most brutal forms of work, such as zero-hour contracts, protecting the flexibility of employers, as you say, and excluding thousands of domestic helpers, ship-workers, etc., even from that. the european social pillar, which syriza, new democracy and pasok voted for, is here. the european union is only changing for the worse because the monopolies that established it are not changing. in the forthcoming european elections, the people's discontent should not be trapped in promises of improvement by social democrats like syriza and others, nor in eurosceptic nationalism for the interests of the exploiters of each individual state. the people must find their own way, their own class way, with the support of those who are aiming at the heart of the beast, capitalism, its european union, the monopolies in each state, and with the support of the communist party of greece.
madam president, how can we have safe and predictable working hours in the european union if we are depriving millions of workers of information? that is what we will do if we vote for the outcome of the trialogue. we will legalize unsafe work, because the text with the council's proposals does not enhance the protection of workers but only flexibility. why does it deny them the information they should have about their working conditions and pay from the first day of their employment? he is completely unaware that many self-employed people are actually employees. the council has understood nothing of the uprising of the yellow vests in france, it has understood nothing of the voice of the precariat that is gradually growing stronger throughout europe. we here have to listen.
madam president, we are back in the same play, spectators. what we are seeing is that, in the end, the european union is confirming its policy, that is, it is practically leaving industrial relations in the realm of flexibility and informal forms, and in essence it is not ensuring either permanent employment or - above all - arrangements which actually support the employment of workers themselves. and that is a major shortcoming of the legislative initiative we are discussing. i would also like to point out that the over-exploitation of substitute teachers and assistant professors must stop. thousands of teachers are currently held hostage in greece and their relations are not regulated by directive 1999/70/ec, i.e. by ensuring specific rights and the possibility of appointment. it is a serious matter, which we have discussed in the committee on petitions and which must be regulated.
madam president, in order for the labour inspectorate in greece to inspect all workplaces at least once, it takes 13 whole years. the european union and governments have also dismantled these few and inadequate state control mechanisms. the aim is for the employer to have a free hand to unhinderedly sweep away the workers. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the new euromechanism is intended to increase the mobility of workers, because, as the european union provocatively points out, only 700 000 workers move from one country to another every year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the replacement of collective agreements with labour rights is being promoted even further down the road, in the nadir, where there are minimal rules. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. that title sounds really cool. but what about the thousands of workers who work without pay, without social security, often without occupational health insurance? the citizens are being victimized by the thousands in modern slavery in the european union and they do not need our good words; they need the right measures. when will a new labour authority be worthwhile? when it is not only concerned with monitoring and recording violations, but actually protecting workers from employers looking for their victims in cross-border employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, instead of supporting the effort to create a european minimum wage, instead of introducing a european minimum unemployment benefit, instead of tackling the violations of labour law in the member states - a classic case of breaching directive 1999/70/ec on informal employment relations - instead of stopping the hostage situation of thousands of teachers, substitute teachers and teachers in greece, the european union is embellishing the situation and telling us that a european labour authority should be set up. it is a new bureaucratic mechanism; an attempt to take over the responsibilities of the member states. the european union must look at the violations that are being committed every day and take action.
mr president, government-guaranteed bonds are a mechanism which cannot solve the problems of the euro zone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr draghi has unlawfully excluded greek government bonds from the quantitative easing regime. in the same way, it has also excluded the bonds of greek companies from the quantitative easing, with the result that there is no increased liquidity in the greek economy itself. an economy that was dismantled by the troika. at the same time, other arrangements should be made so that countries like greece, which are in trouble, can breathe. that is why our movement, greece - the other way, proposes that there should be a special relationship for greece within the european union and the eurozone.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we are familiar with directive 1999/70/ec, which lays down conditions for the protection of workers in informal employment and those working on fixed-term contracts. the 1999 directive insists that fixed-term contracts should be converted into contracts of indefinite duration in so far as they meet fixed and permanent needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system of substitution is not abused, and that the system of substitution is not abused. the greek state must finally implement the 1999 directive and appoint teachers and teachers working as substitutes.
mr president, instead of considering the creation of a european labour authority, the european union should examine, 'in particular with the commission', the application of existing legislation and refer to the court of justice those states which are in breach of european union legislation. i would like to return to the implementation of council directive 1999/70/ec for the eighth time and call for its implementation, as i have said in previous speeches. i would ask that this directive be applied to substitute teachers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly created system of schooling is not used as a pretext for the creation of new jobs. these people can't be under pressure to get rehired next year. there must be a final settlement of this case.
madam president, the developments of the last few weeks in libya have once again highlighted the flaws in the european union's foreign policy towards that country. the eu member states, which together with the united states overthrew gaddafi in 2011, have failed to help the country. she was left at the mercy of isis, resulting in a long and dangerous crisis. after five years of fighting, general haftar's forces managed to capture the last isis stronghold in the town of sabha in late january 2019. however, peace was not achieved, because on april 4 haftar attacked tripoli to capture it. once again the international community and the european union seem incapable of intervening decisively in the whole situation. libya is the country with the largest oil reserves in africa and with these as prizes the civil war will continue, which will perpetuate the crisis, affect the neighboring countries and fill the european union with migrants and terrorists.
madam president, following the recognition of jerusalem as israel's capital and the relocation of the american embassy there, it is a challenge of the first order to recognize the occupied golan heights, which israel seized from syria in 1967. these are moves to promote american interests in the middle east and syria and to support israel's criminal policy against its competitors, primarily russia, to control the markets for resources at the expense of the peoples of the wider region. the syriza-anel government, with the tolerance of the other bourgeois parties in greece, is also responsible for the enormous consequences of its disregard for the united states, nato and the european union, and its defiant rejection of the greek parliament's decision to recognize the palestinian state, while upgrading, like the european union, the political, economic and military relations with israel as if nothing had happened. the european union is also calling for the immediate recognition of the right of the palestinian people to selfdetermination, and for the establishment of a palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, we have discussed sudan on many occasions. in the last few days, everyone has denounced the policies of al-bashir and called for the european union to take action to put an end to this situation, to stop the suppression of human rights and to give freedom to sudan. in the end, as always, the people themselves gave the solution. so with the protests, he managed to overthrow al-bashir in the first place. however, the regime forces and some others remain in power, as martial law has been imposed. this military government cannot of course go through the democratic transition and it certainly cannot remain. that is why i believe that maximum pressure must be exerted by the european union so that democratic elections can be organised, so that the major political problems in sudan and, by extension, the enormous social problems in the country, as well as the wider problems of the humanitarian crisis in the region, can be solved.
mr president, ensuring the integrity of the european elections is very important. it means that the media must ensure pluralism. when there is silence and censorship, it is certain that it will lead to fake news, because it is essentially hiding the truth. i have repeatedly denounced here the blocking and muzzling of our movement, "greece - the other way", as well as my own muzzling by the mainstream media in greece, whether public or private, which do not give an opportunity to promote our views; we've been literally gagged. at the same time, the polling agencies are on the same wavelength, and they do not include our party in the questionnaire they send to the citizens. on such terms democracy cannot work in greece and we cannot go to free european elections in greece. this is something we have denounced as ecr and we have sent letters of protest to the media themselves and to the polling companies and to the home secretary and we want, commissioner, your intervention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in elections to the european parliament. we're literally being gagged.
mr president, better late than never, as the saying goes. the european union was slow to realise that competitiveness in the european economy must be based on innovation and new technologies and certainly not on wage cuts, a prescription it imposed on greece and many countries in the european south. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, technology must be put at the service of man: we must have interventions in health matters and we must have a 'natural' rearrangement of the steel industry itself, so that we can look ahead. but technology cannot be an excuse for mass layoffs. the famous deutsche telekom is preparing to lay off 7,000 workers in greece. its subsidiary, that is to say, the greek ote, in this case the german ote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. keep an eye on this matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr nicola danti, on behalf of the committee on internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of rules and procedures with regard to the compliance and enforcement of union harmonisation legislation on products and amending regulations (eu) no 305/2011, (eu) no 528/2012, (eu) 2016/424, (eu) 2016/425, (eu) 2016/426 and (eu) 2017/1369 of the european parliament and of the council, and directives 2004/42/ec, 2009/48/ec, 2010/35/eu, 2013/29/eu, 2013/53/eu, 2014/28/eu, 2014/29/eu, 2014/30/eu, 2014/31/eu, 2014/38/eu, 2014/38/eu, 2014/38/eu, 2014/35/eu, 2014/37/eu, 2014/38/eu and 2014/35/eu of the european parliament and of the council (com (2017) 0278 final - c7-0035/2018) and 2014/35/eu of the european parliament and of the council (com (2017) 0278 final).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mrs christel schaldemose, on behalf of the committee on internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on promoting fairness and transparency for business users of online intermediation services (com ((2018) 0238 - c8-0165/2018 - 2018/0112 ((cod)) (a8-0444/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr daniel dalton, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 93/13/eec of 5 april 1993, directive 98/6/ec of the european parliament and of the council, directive 2005/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards better enforcement and modernisation of eu consumer protection rules (com (2018) 0185 - c8-0143/2018 - 2018/0090 (cod)) (a8-0029/2019).
mr president, consumer protection requires that there be no double standards, that there be no notion of double quality, so that we do not discriminate against consumers, particularly in eastern europe. at the same time, consumer protection means protection of trade marks and trade names, in particular of companies within the european union, against unfair practices by companies in third countries. this is particularly true of greek products, which are of high quality and use the distinctive title 'macedonian', such as 'macedonian wine' or 'macedonian halvas', and are currently subject to unfair competition from skopje, which also uses the name 'macedonian', creating a huge challenge and 'confusion'. that is why, commissioner, mrs jourová, we are asking the european commission to support greek products, which have been protected for years, are of high quality and bear the title 'macedonian'. this is a serious matter and the commission must look into it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report of ms pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain in the eu and amending regulation (ec) no 178/2002 [on the general food law], directive 2001/18/ec [on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos], regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 [on genetically modified food and feed], regulation (ec) no 1831/2003 [on food additives], regulation (ec) no 2065/2003 [on food additives], regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors] [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors [on food additives] [on food additives] [on food processors [on food additives] regulation (ec) [on regulation (eu) no 1107/2009 [on food additives] regulation (eu) [2018/1388/1388/c/2008 [on food process[2014/a] regulation (eu) [2014/d regulation (eu) [1708/08/388/c.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food chain is not exposed to the risk of contamination by the products of the food chain. the key element is labelling, so that we really know what is in the food. the second is to be careful, mr katainen, about imports from third countries, because they do not meet the conditions there. for example, in turkey, tomatoes and other agricultural products are grown with fertilisers which are banned from circulation in the european union. the third case is the illegal 'hellenisation' of products, that is, the fact that products are presented as allegedly greek, whereas this is prohibited - i have repeatedly denounced this. we have the illegal greening of milk imported through albania and the illegal greening of meat imported through skopje. these issues are important both for consumer protection and for combating fraud and, moreover, for protection at the tariff level. so concrete measures must be taken. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the european union must take decisive action.
madam president, we must not forget that the main issue we are discussing and on which we must concentrate is the protection of public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health system is not affected by the new drugs. the rules on patents and support for the competitiveness of the european pharmaceutical industry must therefore serve these objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that there have been various tricks by pharmaceutical companies in europe to raise the price of the drug. the novartis scandal, which has been exposed in greece in particular, is a classic case and we must go all the way to the end, revealing all the responsibilities and, of course, imposing penalties on the pharmaceutical industry in question. the commissioner, mr katainen, must pay attention to the question of stocks of medicines, because it is essential. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. if we do all this, then we can have the competitiveness of the european pharmaceutical industry and, above all, patient protection.
madam president, well i have listened to pontius pilate today. we are in favour of whistle—blowers but we have no competence at all – neither the council nor the commission. but here we are a political body, we can have our political opinion about the facts. listen to what’s happening. let’s say a european journalist writes something or makes a disclosure on iran. if assange is extradited then there is a precedent. iran – or turkey – will be able to demand the extradition of the european journalist, or capture or kidnap the european journalist! what are you going to say? because they will say that he or she violated the secrets of iran or turkey or whatever. so don’t play pontius pilate when freedom of information and whistle—blowers are crucified. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i fully agree. we have to make a statement. we have made statements and statements and statements, about venezuela, turkey, about everything. and you are talking my colleague about the legal procedure. was the legal procedure respected in the case of other countries? we are making interventions. we are making statements. why not now? why? because the british government is in a mess because of brexit, and now the government is trying to escape with an assange exit. this is not fair. this is not right. you are a politician and you have to take a position. you are either against the extradition or for it.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask this question of my colleague, william (the earl of) dartmouth. what about the processes in turkey? is turkey right when it says that this is a legal action and you have to respect the legal procedure in turkey and not interfere? then why have we done so many statements against processes in turkey? why?
madam president, each country in the european union has different social security systems, different rules, budgets and rules on how unemployment, maternity, paternity, family or early retirement benefits are distributed. but no matter how many benefits are provided, the questions are relentless. do we want a united europe or not? we are not talking about the european parliament. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we support the balas report, which was supported by a wide range of members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the way to a single tax system, without differences between us, to build a truly united europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not a one-size-fits-all system. secondly, the flexibility of work introduced in recent years, and in particular the system of posted workers, a system which creates social dumping, has complicated all the issues. no insurance system should be converted into a subsidy system for neighbouring countries, as is currently the case with the greek insurance system for the 200,000 workers in greece from bulgaria. thirdly, no discrimination against those who work legally in the member states. but at the same time, no export policy of benefits. the unemployment benefit supports unemployed people in finding work. it will therefore support them for as long as they remain in that country. the only possibility of export should be the pension, because it is a right that can be carried in one's own country. therefore, we should look at all these issues as well as the brain drain, which has led to social security bleeding. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, today's debate is particularly important because in a few hours the work of the european parliament's plenary will be completed. it is the last speech of president juncker before the house and we welcome the latvian prime minister, who has been our colleague in the european parliament for nine years and is the twelfth prime minister to come here to discuss the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must look to the future, to the challenges of the future and to what we have not done or what we have done wrong, to understand that this is the way to deal with the rising populist far right that wants to dismantle both the european project and our societies. you mentioned, mr kariņš, the ancient greek myth of aesop with the sticks: one stick breaks easily, many sticks together do not break. that is correct, but we in the european union must look at where we are ten years after the lehman brothers crisis. the european parliament and the commission have called for the application of article 7 against the governments of poland and hungary, and you do nothing in the council about the violations of democracy. the european parliament and the commission have completed a proposal for the reform of asylum policies, seven files in all, and in the council the governments are doing nothing. the commission, the european central bank and the european parliament want to complete banking integration with the third pillar of the european deposit guarantee scheme, and you do nothing in the council. in fact, some governments, such as germany and the netherlands, have effectively vetoed it. so if we want europe to move forward and become stronger in political integration, stronger in political transparency, strengthened in social cohesion and do more to tackle climate change, as the 16-year-old greta thunberg asked us to do yesterday, then the european union, mr weber, must stop being a group of 28 states where the germans discuss and decide. that has to change. and i would like to say that i agree with president juncker's observation that to serve the objectives that have been set, we also need a stronger community budget with more money in the common fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should give more money to youth, erasmus+, employment, research and innovation. i ask you, mr kariņš, as a representative of the council and as a former member of the european parliament: why have you thrown out the proposals of the monti committee to increase own resources? how can we proceed with the political integration of europe, the economic integration of emu and monetary integration without looking at the social question? the social agenda was adopted in gothenburg, mr juncker and mr kariņš, but it remains a mere label. it has not acquired any substance and, as inequalities increase, the populist far-right will gain ground, wanting to destroy both europe and democracy. eighty years ago, the political ancestors of mr salvini, mrs le pen and mr orbán - whom you wrongly detain, mr weber, on suspension on the lines of the european people's party - led to fascism and nazism and a long war. if we want to defend democracy, then we must have a strong majority in the next european elections in the european parliament who believe that we need a more united political, democratic and social europe, one that reduces inequalities and does not increase them.
mr president, i am glad that, after five years of active presence, the union's policy is adapting and is taking account of the reality and of what patriotic voices have said and are saying in a responsible, unwavering and loyal manner to maintain public order and to safeguard our citizens and our vital interests. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. despite this common destiny, shared sovereignty is neither strengthened nor multiplied; on the contrary, it is weakened and eroded. the borders are not federated and are not co-managed; very simply, they are catalyzed. moreover, any categorization of borders is spurious. the borders are borders and they cannot be questioned or falsified. the union is, of course, only interested in safeguarding the interests of germany and its close allies; the european union is not cutting for border protection, but for parking illegal immigrants in countries in the region, such as greece and italy.
mr president, despite the fact that frontex has proved to be the most unsuccessful experiment in dealing with illegal immigration, the european union is seeking to upgrade it and transform it into a european coast guard and border guard. it increases its manpower to 10,000 and, in times of savage austerity, taxes european citizens and squanders their money to create an inefficient and useless organisation. but the obsession - and the desire - to take away from the national states responsibilities vital to their survival, such as border security, leads the european union to take decisions that run counter to common sense. for what reasonable person would disagree with the view that the best protection of a state's borders is achieved if that task is given to the armed forces and security services of that state? the correctness of this view has been proven in practice, because all the states - most states of the european union - are closing their borders to deal with the uncontrolled waves of illegal immigrants and thus transfer the problem to the states of entry, such as greece, which, if it does not realize that it must protect its borders alone, no apprentice wizard of europe will help it, in whatever form and name he appears.
mr president, i would like to convey once again the cry of anguish of the inhabitants of the aegean islands over the enormous flows of migrants and, above all, the large number of illegal immigrants entering greece. recently, there was a protest in samos, because the residents can no longer tolerate other refugees and illegal immigrants. i believe that the role of frontex must be improved and that it should be able to do serious work on border protection issues, and not just on the maritime border, because we are now seeing a large influx from the land border side, in the evros area. there must therefore be a very concrete improvement in the work that frontex itself does. however, in the region of epirus where frontex is supposed to be, on the greek-albanian border, we have an influx of criminals who are actually robbing the border villages.
mr president, we are discussing the visa code, which is of course an important procedure because it is intended to put in order who can enter the european union. at the same time, however, mr president, the quarantine procedure continues for those who travel by air from athens to brussels, with illegal passport checks at brussels airport, which is prohibited and which i have denounced repeatedly in this chamber. i have asked the commission for an explanation and we have not received any answer, and the same thing happened again a few days ago. so it is important to want to put a system in place for those who come to the borders and then to the european union, but to allow the reintroduction of illegal checks by belgium, austria and other countries on those who travel from greece is unacceptable.
madam president, i wanted to ask for your help and the help of my colleagues. i was a member of an official delegation twice, going to the united states. i was denied a visa to enter the united states. (murmurs (of dissent)) wait a second, wait a second. i have nothing to do with terrorism. this is because i was a journalist. i’m a film-maker. i know you are with trump, don’t worry, i know. i know you are ... (interjection by the president)i sent a letter to president tajani. i had no help, so i am looking for help from you, from all my democratic colleagues. not you, not you, i don’t want any help of yours, of the extreme right. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i have listened with interest to the whole debate. i support this material, i think it's very good. it's been said here, investing in this defense fund will lead to a more defensible europe, it will strengthen european industry, it will also have an impact on european economies, these are other benefits. on the other hand, i am making it clear that the future development of these activities must not jeopardise our cooperation within nato. this project must not be a future competitor to nato, which we in the czech republic consider to be the basis of european collective security. that is, if it is an addition that is built that way, then it is certainly the right way, but the basis for european security must be cooperation within nato.
madam president, 13 billion euros in the european defence fund means less money in the european union budget for health, education, infrastructure, education, training and poverty reduction. i believe that this sum will in fact be used to support the european union's large arms industries, which are known to sell arms to turkey and even to saudi arabia. in practice, what is happening is that trump has asked the european union to put its hand in the pocket on defence matters. the european union is not a military force, but a military force, and it is not a military force, but a military force. so what will happen in practice is that more and more military operations will be carried out by the european union in the third world. i believe that these funds should be used mainly to support growth and employment.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in greece, but also in europe, there is a strong scepticism about bonds of this kind at a time when everyone has seen that even government bonds have collapsed. in my own country, in particular, where greek citizens - and many small and medium-sized businesses and pensioners - put their trust in greek government bonds, invested their life's work in greek bonds, and then the famous psi came along, with a decision by the eurogroup, and cut those bonds by 53%. there are people in greece today who had trusted the greek government bonds and they no longer have money to pay for their medicines, to be able to go to a hospital. you will therefore understand that when government bonds have failed there is distrust of this form of bond and of course, as mr lucke says in his report, the proposal and the regulation are trying to ensure that there are maximum guarantees so that these bonds are considered safe, have many investors and thus be able to act as a tool that will shape a global market and, at the same time, attract a number of investors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. if there is a big crisis, then many people wonder if these bonds will hold up.
mr president, i must say that i am very saddened by the attitude of the council and the commission. it is a de facto contempt for the european parliament. primary european law gives our parliament clear powers of inquiry. this is what the member states agreed to when they drafted primary law. and the fact that no implementing document, no implementing regulation, has yet been adopted on this fundamental right is a real shame and i must say that i am very concerned about the behaviour of the council in particular. the letter from october last year, which is full of excuses for not being able to implement such a regulation, saddens me and i must say that i would have expected representatives of democratic states that respect the rule of law to do a better job of exercising the powers of the key institution of the european union, namely the european parliament. we are here representing the citizens, we are directly elected, we have powers given to us by primary law, and the commission and the council in particular unfortunately limit and restrict the exercise of our powers in this way. that's the situation. if this were happening in any other country outside the european space, outside the values of law and the rule of law, i would understand. we often talk about the suppression of law in third countries, and the european parliament often criticises this, but unfortunately we are defying law, european law itself, at the level of the european union itself. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area.
mr president, what are the basic functions of a parliament? the legislative function, parliamentary control and committees of inquiry. the european parliament's right to examine matters, that is to say to set up a committee of inquiry, is provided for by primary law. it must therefore be able to exercise those duties. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament, which will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is not a new one. we need more investment and a comprehensive investment programme from the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. as shadow rapporteur for the left group, i have contributed with our amendments to improving the commission's proposal, by reducing red tape, improving geographical coverage, involving smes more effectively, giving a stronger role to development banks and more money to tackle climate change and through investment. i believe, however, that there is still a need for even more ambitious proposals, and we shall therefore table amendments to that effect in the vote.
mr president, the investeu programme could really make a difference and contribute to growth, job creation, support for training, support for skills. this means that it must avoid the problems presented by the juncker plan, because the experience of the european fund for strategic investments, especially for greece, has shown that the money was taken by european multinationals, which in fact were financed to take over the country's regional airports. the classic case is fraport, which is supposed to invest in the framework of an alleged privatisation imposed by the troika, and we have a german state company which takes a loan of 280 million euros from the european investment bank and the same amount from a greek bank and seizes regional airports. i do not think that this kind of investment contributes to the development of the local economy, it simply finances the so-called privatizations. the programme must therefore be geared to supporting small and mediumsized enterprises with increased local added value.
mr president, the debate that took place here has described very well the problems that cameroon is facing. we may not be able to solve them, but what the european commission and our representatives could do is to increase the pressure on the current president, who has been in power since 1984, and to force the top government officials in cameroon to release the opposition candidate from prison, so that maurice kamto, for being an activist, for allowing himself to run against the current head of state, would not be subject to harassment, discrimination and, above all, the criminal repression that works in cameroon. unfortunately, cameroon is nowhere near the rule of law. i think we could do a lot of work here. that is why i think this resolution is a good one. if we, madam high commissioner, could persuade the cameroonian leadership not to imprison their political opponents for life, it would be a small step forward. otherwise, the other things that have been said here, i agree with.
mr president, today's speech is my last in this parliamentary term. i hope and wish that we can be together again in the next parliamentary term, but that will of course depend on the greek people themselves and whether they will give me the chance to be re-elected to the next european parliament. in any case, i am now up to 2,532 speeches and interventions here in the house and i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, the bureau and you, mr president, the interpreters and all the staff of the european parliament and to say that i will continue to fight for the greek people because i play for the national team of greece. i think that we should support cameroon and that democracy should prevail in this african country so that the people of cameroon can really move forward and solve their problems.
madam president, the president's prominence in the commission is the result of a tough bargaining process in the context of the competition which is intensifying in the european union because of the low performance of the european economy. regardless of the controversies, whoever is elected president, the new commission will continue the basic strategy of the european union: strengthening the profitability of monopolies, restricting popular freedoms, the dossier, anti-communism, crushing the rights of workers in all member states, militarization, imperialist aggression that reinforces dangerous plans and challenging sovereign rights by the turkish bourgeoisie in the aegean, in the cypriot exclusive economic zone. just after the emergence of new democracy in the government of our country, the eurogroup discussed the course of the greek economy in the framework of the agreements with the syriza government against the background of the fourth evaluation and the medium-term programme 2020-2023. the commission and the eurogroup identify a number of budgetary gaps, they demand unwavering compliance with 3.5% of primary surpluses, commitments under the post-memorandum enhanced surveillance, that is, new heavy measures on the backs of the greek people, costing 4.5 to 6 billion euros. these decisions form the basis for the policy of the new republic government, providing for the generalization of public housing auction, an increase in tax collection measures for non-performing loans, new cuts in pensions, allowances, privatizations, greater commercialization of health, welfare and education. workers in greece and europe must draw important conclusions, organize to claim their modern rights to work, to live, to educate their children.
mr president, one of the first acts of the new democracy government was to recognize the chief contractor, guaidó, the straw man of the united states of america, as interim president of venezuela, stepping on the very foot of the unacceptable common position of the european union, which was supported by the syriza government. this is an act that supports the dirty intervention of the united states, the european union and their allies in venezuela and is directed against the legally elected president of the country and against the venezuelan people as a whole, who are the only ones responsible for determining the political and social developments in their country. the greek people, as they have done many times in the past, need to condemn decisively the intervention of the united states and the european union in venezuela, together with the recognition of it by the nd government, which by taking the baton from syriza is playing the imperialists' game. the kke expresses its internationalist solidarity with the people of venezuela, with their communist party and the communist youth of the country, who are fighting for the people's interests.
mr president, mr president of the council, your country has adopted the most inspiring climate goal in the world – of achieving carbon neutrality by 2035. however, as we stand, we risk missing the targets set by the paris accord, especially in view of the latest climate events and our increasing comprehension of their nature. finland, with its bold climate action, shows the way of the future and we really need your progressive leadership. i therefore ask you fully to integrate the 17 sustainable development goals globally agreed by the united nations, as measured by eurostat, into the new multiannual financial framework. let’s invest in a world for all people. thank you, and i wish finland the best for a successful presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the problem of the proper delivery of humanitarian aid should be tackled by a single, specific and permanent mechanism, universally accepted by all the member states of the union. the mediterranean is a field of activity for people seeking refuge in europe, in europe as a whole and not in any particular country. the solution to the humanitarian question of migration must therefore be framed in a european framework. the resumption of european naval operations in the mediterranean sea, as proposed by the un, from 2014 onwards, the distribution of refugees among member states on the basis of clear objective criteria, the active use of european offices outside the european union where asylum applications are submitted by member states and the air transport of asylum seekers to europe are potentially essential pillars of genuine humanitarian support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a possible catastrophe.
madam president, we on the left - because i have heard humanitarian and christian approaches to the issue - do not want refugees. what we want is to eliminate the causes that create the refugee crisis, and that is why you do not talk about it. what i'm asking you today is to recognize those causes. the commissioner yesterday spoke of greater military involvement with nato, that is, she told us with insolence that she wants us to strengthen the causes of the refugee flows. why would you do that? to restore the european empire ? for more profitable international business? the mediterranean has become a graveyard of souls. in greece, with a left-wing government in the middle of the crisis, we fought. europe must do the same until peaceful reconstruction. we are asking for this: the immediate disengagement of europe from the hotbeds of conflict, militarily and economically; total support for the solidarity organizations. the enemy is not the solidarity movement, the enemy is the war and your policies. the mediterranean will only be truly secure when there is peace on both sides. ladies and gentlemen of the european right, you have opened wounds, closed borders. that's your policy!
madam president, i find the debate very hypocritical and i cannot understand how we can blame countries which close their borders and refuse to allow illegal immigrants into their countries, but not blame the countries which have led to this situation. so if anyone should be punished, it is those who lead their own citizens into these situations. that is the one thing. secondly, i hear a lot about humanity. i hear and hear this talk a lot, but humanism is all about all the illegal immigrants who cross the border at will. we have never thought and talked in humanitarian terms about what our fellow europeans are experiencing from all these hordes of illegal immigrants. have we ever discussed what these people have been through? i'm from greece. we have experienced this whole wave of illegal immigration very well. do you know how many people have been killed? do you know how many rapes and robberies have been committed ? for these people, well, i haven't heard many of you talk about humanitarianism, haven't i seen you want to help them and see in the end are the rights violators those who smuggle in through our borders or those who live normally in the countries of their ancestors?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. forests are not only the natural wealth of a country but also the lungs of the entire planet. they produce oxygen for all humans and animals. it is estimated that 43% of europe's land area is covered by forests, which, in addition to the wealth of ecosystems and the useful source of renewable energy they provide, have the capacity to absorb carbon dioxide emissions. european forests absorb 10% of these emissions. rapid warming, however, leads to deadly fires. this year, the average number of fires in the european union has tripled. the european south - greece, italy, spain and portugal - burns up literally every summer with significant losses in natural resources, animals and people. it is also expected that this figure will increase by 40% to 100% in the coming years. so we won't have any forests to protect for a while. that's why we need to act now while we still have the luxury. why not take the example of the great green wall in africa and follow it? we grew up with the fear that climate change was going to be a problem that would concern some of the next generations, and, ultimately, that generation is us.
madam president, throughout the european union governments are making reactionary changes to the laws governing the operation of trade unions. in greece, the new democracy government is trying to enforce a trade union law, which includes electronic registers in the unions workers' files. it destroys their statutes, introduces electronic voting for the strike, striking the collective live processes, bringing the abolition of the right to strike and continuing the anti-people policy of the previous government, which opened the way with obstacles to the strike. similar measures are applied in other eu member states such as italy, britain, belgium and sweden. the european union, capital and its governments are intensifying the anti-working class offensive. they are worried about the possibility of a new capitalist economic crisis. they are preparing by intensifying the repression of workers' struggles, by undermining trade unions and militant demands, by trying to pass the dangerous social partnership for workers. the workers are resisting these anti-working class methods. they are organizing their struggle, as is happening in greece at the moment. they're opposing government policy en masse. they are fighting for militant unions that will defend workers' rights and confront the forces of capital and their power.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, next week the secretary-general of the united nations is expecting us in new york to present our plan for how we will stop the increase in carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 and bring them down to zero by 2050. the voice of science is united, it is clear and it has sounded the alarm. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union. so the response to the climate emergency requires nothing less than a radical transformation of our economy and society. we have one last chance to make an orderly and just transition by implementing the 17 sustainable development goals and the political agenda of the paris agreement that seek to tackle climate change while also eradicating poverty and extreme inequality. the political declaration of the conference explicitly states that we know the world we want and we have the way to get there. so let's do it by incorporating the 17 sustainable development goals into the multiannual financial framework and the european semester. we expect nothing less than that the new programme being prepared by vice-president timmermans will be a new green social contract. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is not achieved by voting against the motion for a resolution condemning the destruction of the amazon yesterday.
madam president, the european union, capital, governments are worried about a new capitalist economic crisis. they are preparing to shield the financial system, the banks, the big monopolies, which in the last decade have received hundreds of billions as liquidity injections, money cut from wages and pensions, the rights of the peoples of europe. the policy of banking integration of the fiscal space requires clearing banks of red loans, giving them to private funds, focusing on the hundreds of thousands of small debtors throughout the european union, who are being blackmailed by auctions and seizures, instead of the huge debts of entrepreneurs. the appointment of the president of the european central bank is not a matter of personality. the bank of the european union's anti-people mission remains unchanged. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. that's the capitalist system. the peoples of europe must organize and fight for their contemporary needs against the profit and power of the monopolies in each country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat cancer, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. i want to focus on breast cancer, which has the highest mortality rate in women of any cancer in the world. in 2018 alone in europe, we had 522,000 new cases and 138,000 deaths. but if diagnosed early, it's 100% curable. that is why we are pushing to put it at the top of the health agenda in all member states, to put it at the forefront of prevention and information policies and actions, with awareness campaigns and education programmes. we need to ensure that patients have universal access to all treatment protocols. we must overcome prejudices and social taboos so that information and preventive control become the business of all women! i am particularly pleased that the commissioner-designate from cyprus, mrs kyriakides, is well aware of the problem and is determined to create the first european strategy to combat cancer.
madam president, today's sitting is obviously not about the future or the memory. it is a real delirium of vulgar anti-communism. that's it! the anti-communist resolutions tabled are despicable, they are provocative and unprecedented. they must withdraw. they must be voted down because the people will then judge very strictly who they vote for. the aim behind these expediency constructs which legitimize the banning of the activities of communist parties, communist symbols, communist ideology, which generalize the persecutions against communists and the popular forces they are fighting against are precisely the peoples of europe and the struggles they are waging. the resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years, and for the immediate release of all prisoners of war. the decisive contribution of the soviet union to the crushing of fascism and nazism and the eternal condemnation of their crimes is drenched in the blood of millions of dead, millions of wounded, countless victims of the anti-fascist struggle of the peoples of europe. those who fought against fascism and nazism you dare call hitler's collaborators. but no matter how much dirty ink is spilled, the historical truth will shine. capitalism causes immense suffering to the people. socialism, a world without exploitation, wars, poverty and unemployment is the way out, it's the future. history is written by the people and cannot be rewritten by resolutions. anti-communism will not pass!
madam president, memory is one of the most important assets of human society and that is why it is in our interest and our duty to create spaces, museums and monuments that keep the memory alive and keep the unity and human values high. but we must be careful about what passes into eternity and what world we create for future generations. historically, building collective memory has proven to be extremely difficult. and that's because the pseudo-scientific charging of history, for the purpose of emotional blackmail of memory, nurtures hatred instead of cultivating civilization. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of persons. it is therefore sad to see the word 'culture' being removed from the commissioners' portfolios. what message does this send to our cultural industry and to our citizens standing united in diversity? if we want to keep our culture alive, we have to create it.
mr president, i hear about democratic sensitivities and things like that in this chamber. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. but i would like to speak to you as a man who has experienced these things. you know i have been elected four times in the last few years to the greek parliament. but six years ago there was an illegal and unjust persecution of us - me, the leader of the party to which i then belonged and five other members of parliament. we were imprisoned for 18 months and remained there illegally after the intervention of the then prime minister of the country, antonis samaras, and with pressure exerted on prosecutors, according to audio-visual material, which exists and is available to you and to anyone who has doubts about all this. so these are blatant violations of human rights and elected representatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. turkey must be punished. turkey has never been and never will be a member of the european union. and the problem is not erdogan in turkey. it's turkey itself. she has learned to behave like this and to violate all international conventions and all laws by doing only what she wants.
madam president, it is the inalienable right of every people to decide what they want. i am really amazed at the persistence of so many of you - in this room and in general - to change a referendum and a given opinion of the people. you did the same thing and the same thing happened in my country, greece, when you led the people there to a referendum and the result of the referendum showed that we no longer wanted the european union and we no longer wanted the memoranda. but you, all you european parliament and central bank thugs, have led my country to disaster; and then we have the statements by mario draghi, the statements by christine lagarde and poul thomsen, who admit that too many mistakes have been made. who will pay for the mistakes you made? in my country, thousands of families have paid for it and are now starving. there are too many people who have committed suicide and you're all just making theories without knowing what's going on. so let the british people decide as they please, so they don't have to go through what my country has gone through. i would also like to point out the great hypocrisy on the part of most of you in regard to the main issue of the day: the turkish incursion into syria. how and to what extent do the turks have the right to attack and bomb innocent people at this time? you guys are just sitting here talking. the turks have taken unprecedented boldness from your tolerance of them for many, many decades. we must put an end to this game with turkey, we must make it clear that turkey has no place in the european union and we must immediately stop the aid you are giving it. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer "blue card". i think that people in britain have not changed their minds. it's the same as it was before. but i do not understand when a referendum is of value to you and when it is not. this referendum has been going on for some years. so why hasn't this thing been implemented yet? we are waiting for the british people to change their minds, perhaps with all the pressure that will be put on them? what happens until then? the vote was taken, the decision was specific and, in accordance with your democratic sensibilities, this must be accepted. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, we obviously respect the decision of the world trade organization on state aid to airbus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the position of the european people's party is absolutely clear: we remain open to finding a fair and balanced solution. a solution that will not unfairly involve an airplane dispute, olive oil, sliced and canned peaches exported from europe to the united states, or beef imported into europe from the united states. we have no reason to open up matters that are closed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. however, under european union directives, pension thresholds are being raised further, social security is being privatised the etuc has reduced pensions, dissolved collective bargaining, seriously hampered the activities of trade unions, restricted the right to strike and made redundancies more widespread. the european pillar of rights and the logic of a guaranteed minimum income have the effect of squeezing all rights downwards, particularly for young people and women. average wages are falling; that's what the evidence shows. the european union is home to more than 100 million poor people, 20 million unemployed and 5 million homeless, while one third of the jobs created are flexible and do not cover basic needs. these are the results of the european union's anti-worker guidelines, specified by the governments in each country, aimed at supporting the profitability of the groups as a new capitalist crisis is emerging. workers in the european union must collectively and organizedly respond through their class unions, putting on the agenda the struggle for their modern rights to permanent stable work, collective agreements that ensure decent wages and working limits and conditions, and free health care and insurance under the responsibility of the state.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the transport and tourism sector is a strong pillar of growth for the european economy. it represents 10% of european gdp and is a catalyst for the development of many industries. its importance is vital for regions and island regions which have no other development resources. there is no single mechanism to support local communities and jobs, and there is no mechanism to boost the image of european tourism, which is being hit one by one, with negative consequences for everyone. europe is a single leading tourist destination and tourism is the fourth largest import sector with a eur 27 billion surplus. who will support him if not the european union itself? we do not have the means to deal effectively with crises that affect tourism in europe horizontally. we have only one directive on the repatriation of tourists who have bought package holidays and individual movements of member states, based on national interest and without coordination. i want to be clear. the collapse of thomas cook is not the only challenge to the sustainability of tourism. we are faced with the climate crisis and the intensification of extreme weather events and also with the critical issue of security in matters where the need for respect for human rights prevails, such as the refugee issue. we therefore call for the strengthening of legislation to protect travellers against emergencies, where the tourist himself bears no responsibility, and we must establish a european crisis management mechanism in tourism, for workers, local communities and the image of europe as a leading tourist destination.
madam president, i would like to begin by saying that what happened a few days ago is of course reprehensible. but we cannot forget that if there is a religious group that is being persecuted in these years, it is christianity and christians. i am also very surprised that we are discussing these things in parliament at this moment, when just a short while ago there was a possibility of a debate and a resolution on the persecution of christians in the middle east and syria, and the majority of members refused to discuss it. so we cannot be a la carte sensitive to religious issues, because according to surveys available from fox news, christians are the most persecuted group in the last two years at least. also, if we look at various websites and various media that do not allow for questioning, in my country at least, in greece, in 2018 there were 574 attacks on christian churches, about which nothing was heard. there have also been attacks on a great many - 1063 if i am not mistaken - christian churches in france. as are about 450 in germany. they've never really been heard of. so how is it that there is a term and we're all talking about anti-semitism, but we're not talking about anti-christianity, according to what's out there? because you democrats, and as we're talking about it, we should put these on and see what happens. are they valid on one side? convicted, sure, but if they're valid on the other side of the fence, we can't keep quiet. and in relation to right-wing violence, at least in my country, according to a report by europol, on 23/6/2018, greece is in the first place of left-wing violence, with terrorists who are fully armed, with heavy weapons. so let's not strain the camel and swallow the conch.
madam president, the council's decisions are dangerous for the peoples, reflecting the great contradictions within the european union, in the context of its fierce competition with the united states and russia over which groups will benefit in syria and in the balkans. the recognition of turkey as a substantial partner, a nato ally with alleged sanctions on future equipment, while it invades syria, says it all. similar penalties are provided for turkish infringements in the aegean and drilling in the cypriot eez. the blocking of the accession procedures and negotiations with north macedonia and albania reveals, among other things, the desire of the french bourgeoisie to gain time to upgrade its own role in the balkans, always in the context of the detriment to the peoples of the prespa agreement area. the appeasement and glamorization of imperialist alliances and agreements by the new democracy government and by syriza are unfounded, they are dangerous for our people, who must be vigilant in their struggle against imperialist plans.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. because the reality is that there are too many funds, too much money being given in this direction and some people have set up a business on this particular issue. so here we must assign responsibility and not give a pardon to all those who have disappeared some money, and we are talking about several million euros, because here it is proved that together with the ngos a gang has been created which really steals from the backlog of european citizens all this money that is given and it is not accidental that, about a month ago, i had also filed a complaint with the greek authorities, the prosecutor's office, to see where the money is found various ngos that have really taken up the issue of illegal immigration in greece. because you know, because i'm from greece and i see the problem that exists, in my country the state has no jurisdiction in the illegal immigration issue, it does whatever the ngo wants, so justice must be done and those who do these things must be punished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the information provided on the turkish operations in north-eastern syria and on the basis of the information obtained by the international media, i would like to point out the following: the military operation by turkey against the kurdish forces has already caused a mass displacement of the population. there have also been various reports of indiscriminate attacks on civilians. if this evidence is confirmed, it would imply that these attacks would constitute war crimes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i should also point out yesterday's statement by james jeffrey, the us president's special envoy for syria, that dozens of islamic state jihadists were released after the turkish army began its invasion of northeastern syria. the two elements mentioned above require systematic action by the institutions of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the facts show that there is a clear agreement between trump and putin, with mr erdoğan as a key player. it's like the whiskey commercial, well known here in the west, "one goes, another comes". the agreement between mr erdoğan and mr putin yesterday proves that to be true. the union is once again playing the role of 'participatory abstention', with no compensation for certain of its countries. in response to a question from the german left, the german government replied that until the embargo, until the day before yesterday, sales to turkey amounted to 250 billion euros for military equipment, that is, for weapons, in the first eight months of 2019. from this carnage it seems that everyone is winning, establishing mr. erdoğan as the dominant player in the levant. but there are some questions we want to ask: who will protect the kurds, a million souls in the region, the union? what about the new wave of refugees heading for europe and the greek islands, who will do anything about it, the union? shall we send our condolences ? we will have a new eu-turkey agreement, we will see mr orbán closing his borders? the union's political majority is making it less and less credible in the international arena every day.
madam president, i would like to thank the author for introducing this bill, but i would like also to disagree with the title. it is an emergency. it is a serious and unexpected situation requiring immediate action, but it’s not climate or ecological. it is a human catastrophe which is affecting frontline communities. it is disrupting food patterns. it is creating failed states. it is creating climate refugees. it is exhausting our civic protection capabilities in the face of extreme weather phenomena, and this is the action that we need to take against it. and in this emergency, europe can be the leader. unlike the emergency room which we talked about in the morning about turkey and kurdistan, in this emergency we can offer more than words. we are the leader in this situation, and we should continue to be so globally. in this house we expect to pass a just european green deal in the spring. this means that we need a comprehensive cross-sectoral platform full of new regulation and legislation, an action plan that will ensure climate neutrality by 2050, and at the same time not only creating millions of jobs, but saving us trillions of imported fossil fuel which of course we don’t have in europe. so this is not about losing jobs, it is about creating jobs, and it is our action that needs to be taken to confront this emergency.
mr president, the suffering and all that the peoples of the balkans have suffered has specific causes. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is not just the united states that is the world's largest exporter of goods, but also the world's largest exporter of goods. experience shows that no country's accession to the european union and nato can be done for the benefit of the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. this is precisely the reason for the confrontation within the european union over the accession of north macedonia, namely the acute competition between france, germany and other countries for who will have the upper hand in the western balkans, against the backdrop of the bitter political and economic conflict between the european union, the united states, nato and russia and china in the region. the contradictions between the countries of the european union do not call into question the prespa agreement, a euro-asian agreement which was signed with the aim of joining the country to the european union and nato, which is harmful to the peoples. the peoples of the western balkans and of the whole of europe can live in peace, but outside the european union, outside nato, outside the imperialist plans, rejecting nationalism, absolutism, with power and the economy in their own hands.
mr president, i have just heard from some speakers that it took great political courage to reach the skopje agreement with my country, greece. i would like to say here, for the sake of this house, that there was no political courage but that it was the imposition of a small minority at the expense of the will of the greek people. more than 75% of greeks, up to 80%, did not want this agreement at all. the greek government has flatly refused to accept the greeks' demand for a referendum. so we have come to the point where the then government and the present government are the biggest supporters of this treacherous agreement made against our country. and as far as all the members of the european parliament are concerned, and as far as the citizens of all the european countries are concerned, we must all get out of this trap: there is no north macedonia, there is a skopje state, to be clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and to close it all and make it clear, here is, inscribed on a marble slab found a short time ago in my homeland, an inscription. this inscription says "thessaloniki of philip the queen". this inscription, after 2,000 years, i know and i can read it, being a greek. any resident of skopje cannot read this inscription. so let them not ask for things that do not belong to them. there is only one macedonia and it is only greek.
mr. president, the evidence is compelling. in 2018, there were 250 million child laborers around the world. in europe up to 500 000 minors from third countries were working illegally - many of them victims of sexual exploitation. in greece there are tens of thousands of children working illegally while 2.8 million people, aged 16 and over, have not completed compulsory education. of the more than 3 000 refugee children stranded on the greek islands, less than 15% went to school last year, lacking access to basic sanitation and health care. the european parliament has been a party to the convention on the rights of the child for a long time, and it is not a question of the child being a victim of the system. in an exploitative society, which breeds discrimination, poverty, unemployment, wars, refugees and constant violations of people's fundamental rights, children are no exception. the struggle for full rights to work, to education, to social protection for mothers, to creative life, is the only way out today for a life free of exploitation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, once again it is clear that the european union is unable to effectively safeguard its sovereign rights. turkey has invaded, looted and illegally displaced the people of cyprus and now threatens its european waters with illegal drilling. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations on the gatt agreement for the last six years. we all know that false statements against individuals and legal entities are only for show and are not sufficient. the european union must not allow the turkish authorities to continue to use the turkish language. the european union must stop all financial aid and assistance to the country. we understand that europe has great economic interests in turkey, but our honour and prestige are now at stake. the european union must defend its rights against such hostile, belligerent actions by third countries. the european union must send a strong message to all that it is not being blackmailed and that it is not giving up its rights, that it remains united and strong alongside its members and alongside cyprus.
madam president, today's debate reflects the obligation of all of us to protect our common borders, our common interests, to defend the cypriot eez as a european one and to enforce the obligation of respect by all, as defined by the law of the sea and as required by european law. the european union is an example of international legality in the world. this is because first of all there is culture and respect, institutional structures and legal order. we have in many cases imposed sanctions, and last july we as the epp group raised the question of imposing sanctions on turkey, with the well-known council decision. but turkey continues to challenge us. he's been breaking every rule, every rule, every rule. it illegally occupies the northern part of cyprus, violates greek air and sea space and uncontrollably tramples on the european eez in the south-east mediterranean, behaving as a regional troublemaker. so can it be an important partner in the european union, a friend and a good neighbour? we would like that, too. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, what is our europe? it's a place of stability and mutual respect based on rules. what kind of rules do we want? firstly, peace in europe means peace in the application of the law. we must introduce the definition of pax europa. pax europa is the same as pax juris. as long as we defend justice, we are europe. we need the right tools to implement this. at the very least, we must move forward with the common defence policy. hurry up! secondly, when it is a matter of a european partner's interest arising from the law, we must act jointly and directly. turkey has absolutely no right to violate the territory or sea zone of another sovereign state. the measures are in the right direction, but we also need trade sanctions. turkey has troops in three countries and is threatening us with a migrant whirlwind. we need toughness. he must know our response to any additional threat. europe has self-respect, hold your head up high!
mr president, madam minister, mr tytti tuppurainen, mr commissioner dimitris avramopoulos, the living conditions of the migrants in bosnia - as many colleagues have pointed out - are extremely worrying: men, women and children live in camps without running water or electricity. in bihać, as has been said, it is a former landfill. added to this is overpopulation. it is not worthy of our values. we must therefore, together, and without delay, madam minister, commissioner, make progress on the asylum package, which is currently blocked. it is important, as our libe committee chairman juan lópez aguilar has said, to ensure that each country respects its obligations under the geneva convention to take in refugees. and it is equally essential to set clear rules to speed up the processing of asylum applications and to harmonise access conditions across the union. we also have a duty of responsibility, with solidarity between the countries of the union to ensure, in particular, support for the countries of first entry and for european third countries, such as bosnia, which are facing migratory pressure.
mr president, bosnia and herzegovina has a huge problem with a large number of refugees that it cannot control. bosnia and herzegovina is economically weak and is engaged in major internal political disputes. croatia has the most demanding border in the european union, over a thousand kilometres long, and it is also very difficult to protect. slovenia is only a day's walk from bihać, velike kladuše, and this pressure is transferred across the croatian-bosnian border to the slovenian border. in the first nine months of this year, slovenian police arrested 11,786 migrants, 70 percent more than last year. over the last three months, more than 2,000 migrants have been detained by slovenian police every month. two days' walk, these migrants are already in austria. it is therefore essential to immediately stop the smuggling routes that have been driving this flow of migrants, and with frontex we are helping bosnia to establish the situation both in the area of the handling of migrants and in the political area, which is very problematic in bosnia.
mr president, i’ve heard directly from ngos working on the ground with refugees and migrants in bosnia and herzegovina. there is no organisation, infrastructure or adequate support, and desperate people, including many children, are living in appalling conditions, sleeping on the ground in abandoned places or wherever they can find a place to lie down. almost everyone has scabies and there are no available treatments. several people have died of blood poisoning because various infections were not treated; many drown in the river trying to reach croatia; others are beaten, tortured and robbed by croatian police and sent back to bosnia. they’ve been strangled, tortured with electricity, and burnt with hot metal rods by croatian police also. right-wing politicians portray these desperate people as violent addicts, criminals, rapists and thieves, carriers of diseases – the language that is used when talking about refugees is hate speech. meanwhile, the work of many volunteers has been forbidden or criminalised. bosnia and herzegovina became an unlikely gatekeeper of the european union and croatia forgot its responsibility as a member state to uphold human rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks for your contribution to this very timely debate. as i said during my introductory remarks, i will raise the issue next tuesday in the eu-western balkans home affairs ministerial forum that will take place in skopje. the commission and the european parliament share the same concerns about the migration situation in bosnia and herzegovina, in particular around the town of bihać. we expect that bosnia and herzegovina will take urgent measures to avoid further deterioration of the migration and humanitarian situation. thank you for joining our efforts in calling for the immediate closure of the unsuitable location in vučjak and the provision of adequate accommodation across the country for refugees and migrants. this is required to prevent a major humanitarian crisis in the coming winter. we expect state-level entities, cantonal and local authorities to cooperate and coordinate their actions and to make the best use of the technical and financial assistance that the european union has been providing. we expect law enforcement agencies at all levels to support the humanitarian response and to cease counterproductive actions that endanger the life and health of refugees and migrants. there should be no physical violence against migrants and refugees. border guards and police should carry out their duties in full respect of fundamental rights. we will continue to engage with bosnia and herzegovina in order to support the authorities to prevent, as i stressed before, a humanitarian crisis from unfolding in the country in the coming winter.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me thank you for the discussion we have had today. we are fully aware of the complex and difficult situation regarding migrants in bosnia and herzegovina, and we are committed to working hard with all the stakeholders involved to find a solution to the current crisis. throughout the whole process we must not forget the human aspect of the current situation. just yesterday we discussed in this very chamber the protection of children’s rights. it is important to find a solution quickly and to act with resolve in order to protect people. we are all aware that great challenges lie ahead of us, but we are counting on your support in finding a workable answer to the current problems. the finnish presidency is fully committed, within the next mff context, to allocate a sufficient amount of funds for migration management and to respond to both the internal and external aspects of migration. nevertheless, the financial aid from the eu is just a tool. it is crucial, indeed, that the national and local authorities do their part of work efficiently. without any delay they should provide refugees and migrants with the help and assistance needed: proper accommodation is a minimum. without any doubt, it is of the utmost importance that every member state, all of us, follows the rule of law, and full respect for fundamental rights at the border between two countries must be ensured. ms strik asked us, the finnish presidency, what we are doing. we as the presidency underline the importance of full compliance with international law – in practice and at our external borders. the eu must continue to actively and closely monitor the situation on the ground, and take seriously all allegations of mistreatment of migrants. we must see this as a reminder that the ongoing work on the reform of the common european asylum systems needs to continue. situations like this one should not be allowed to be repeated.
in writing. the argument that we are over the immigration crisis is wrong. recent reports indicate that migration pressure is again increasing both in the mediterranean and along the western balkans route, so we should expect the crisis to continue. there is an international smuggling operation, supported by political means, by sea, and ngos with unclear backgrounds taxi migrants to europe. the situation in the western balkans is critical, with tens of thousands of illegal immigrants waiting to enter the european union as soon as possible. in bihács, in northwestern bosnia, thousands of migrants are also camped out, the city center is almost completely taken over, there are acts of violence, the situation is untenable. hungary has shown by example that fences can protect borders. if there is political will, illegal immigration can be stopped, even by putting in place physical border controls. but to overcome the immigration crisis, europe's migration policy must change. a union approach to asylum and border management should be developed, with a focus on strengthening the protection of the external borders and cooperation with third countries. instead of encouraging migration, we need to focus on stopping migration.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the situation in the hotspots on the greek islands is extremely difficult. according to this week’s integrated situational awareness analysis report, over 47 000 migrants have arrived by sea to the greek islands this year. this means there has been a 69% increase in arrivals by sea. almost 36 000 persons are present on the islands, inside and many also outside official camp areas designed for a maximum of around 8 000. this is the first time we have reached such a high number since the implementation of the eu—turkey statement. conditions are unacceptable. migrants and asylum-seekers are facing a dire situation, with significant shortages of basic shelter and unsanitary, unhygienic conditions. at-risk groups such as people with disabilities are often unable to access basic services such as water, sanitation and hygiene facilities. unaccompanied minors are accommodated in facilities which are not adapted to their needs. there are long lines for poor-quality food, mismanagement and lack of information which all contribute to a chaotic and volatile atmosphere. since the end of august there have been three deaths in and around the moria camp. in september there were more than 1 000 unaccompanied minors in moria. most of them are living in unsuitable conditions with adults. madam president, honourable members, urgent action is needed, and there are things that can be done quite speedily such as decongesting the islands, which is also the priority of the greek government. i understand that there are plans to transfer over 5 000 asylum-seekers already authorised to continue their asylum procedure on the mainland. to fast-track these plans would be helpful. we also take note of government measures to speed up and tighten asylum procedures and manage flows to greece by improving border surveillance. more observation posts are being put up at the land borders, surveillance of the evros river is being stepped up, while at the sea borders the capacity of the harbour police will be boosted by providing additional vessels and personnel. many more employees are being recruited to the asylum service. in this way, the ability to handle cases will be tripled. these and other measures are part of the new ambitious asylum legislation that the greek parliament adopted on 31 october. it will be of utmost importance to implement, as fast as possible, the new provisions, including the asylum and return procedures. on asylum, there is reportedly a backlog of 68 000 cases. with the new rules in place, asylum requests would be handled within 60 days. this is a very welcome development, provided that all required legal safeguards under eu law are also in place. the return rate so far has been critically low for far too long. returns are instrumental in keeping the numbers down on the islands. the plan of the greek government includes a target of returning 10 000 migrants by the end of 2020. this is ambitious, but it can be done with the appropriate procedures in place and assistance from international organisations for migration, frontex, and eu member states. these measures go hand in hand with the legislative amendments on asylum and are all designed in order to reduce the overcrowding of the camps. effective returns also require the cooperation of turkey. it is vital that both parties apply in good faith all the provisions and operating procedures agreed as a result of the statement. it is difficult to predict if arrivals will continue in line with their current trends. depending on the situation in turkey (the extended deadline to arrange for legal papers expired on 31 october) and the situation along the turkish-syrian and turkey-iranian borders, the current pressure may be maintained for some more weeks. regardless of the way the situation develops in turkey and the region, the urgent steps described above must be taken immediately to reduce overcrowding and ensure dignified conditions for all people in the camps. i am certain that the commission in its statement will elaborate on the assistance and advice it provides to the greek government on this issue.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, as you all know, greece has been exposed to migratory pressure for many years now. while there is no comparison with the intensity of the situation five years ago – definitely, we are not where we were at that time – we all recognise the huge challenge that greece is facing and that greece is constantly exposed to migratory pressures, which at periods becomes difficult to bear. at the beginning of the year 2019 there were more than 35 000 migrants present on the ‘hot spot’ islands. 17 000 migrants were present on lesbos alone. it has been, and it remains, a priority of this commission to help the entire country in addressing these challenges. urgent action is needed to alleviate the pressure on the islands and to improve the conditions for migrants and refugees. we need to do everything we can to support national authorities and we do it. as regards now the financial support, the commission has made available to greece eur 2.2 billion since 2015 – the largest financial support ever provided to a member state for migration. we have also been providing technical and operational support with colleagues from the commission being deployed on the ground and being in regular contact with the greek authorities. we have been doing that during the last five years – supporting the previous government and the current government in greece. they are doing whatever they can in order to address this issue. however, and as you know, the role of the national authorities in handling the situation on the ground remains of paramount importance. i want to be very clear on that. the commission can only provide support. it cannot replace the greek authorities. the commission at all levels – operational but equally politically, is in permanent contact with the greek authorities. at the beginning of october, i visited both athens and ankara, together with the minister of the interior of germany, mr seehofer, to discuss the situation with the government in both countries and find ways to address the challenges – also in the context of the eu-turkey statement. in addition, just a few weeks ago, a technical mission at the highest level, with my director-general, ms paraskevi michou, also went to greece to discuss ways to further support greece in developing effective solutions to the challenges on the ground. in fact, many of the existing problems have become worse with an increase of arrivals to the islands over the last six months. the de-congestion of the islands and the need to increase the reception capacity on the islands and on the mainland remain a key priority. more efficient asylum procedures would greatly contribute to improving the processing of the asylum requests. this would also help in speeding-up the return of those who have no right to stay. moreover, ensuring the provision of adequate health care and, in particular, intensifying the preparations for winter accommodation remain paramount and very urgent. seeing those images of vulnerable people stranded in the cold in the past has been a collective shame for europe. we simply cannot have another winter like that and we have been given all the assurances from the greek government that they have taken care of it. as you know, the greek parliament has adopted a new law on asylum and reception on 31 october with the objective of making procedures more efficient without compromising on fundamental rights. it’s a very important step forward. we have been following closely its adoption process. once it will be formally notified to the commission, we will assess the law’s compliance with the eu legal framework. now, let me give you some examples of eu support on the islands. the creation of a new reception and identification centre on the island of samos, which greece is currently working to implement with eu funding, is a positive step towards improving the living conditions on the island. it is important to make the new centre operational as soon as possible and no later than january 2020. the commission staff on the island of lesbos has facilitated with the agreement of the authorities the renting of an area where asylum seekers have improved living conditions. in september 2019, the commission provided an additional eur 4.2 million funding to the international organisation for migration for the creation of safe zones on all hot-spot islands. the critical situation of unaccompanied minors in greece continues to be a top priority and i have personally called for a proactive approach to find new places and reach tangible results as well as to facilitate their integration. in this context, the commission has recently awarded an emergency assistance project for the creation of safe zones dedicated to unaccompanied minors on the islands of lesbos, samos, leros and kos. i know that the minister of the interior of greece has also urged his counterparts to relocate unaccompanied minors. everybody should be part of this effort. it is not a greek problem. it is not a neighbourhood problem. it is a european problem. the commission supports such bilateral agreements between member states, including financially. the assistance of member states, on the basis of solidarity and responsibility, is of utmost importance. migration remains an issue of joint responsibility of all member states and the union as a whole. management of migration is testing every day the values and the principles upon which europe is built. as i said before, it is a european issue and even an issue of global dimensions. at this moment, today, as we are here in brussels, more than 400 million people are somewhere in the world seeking a safe haven – migrants or refugees. and the root causes are still there and unfortunately, they will be there for many many years, so we have a huge responsibility to address this issue and lead the whole world in providing support to these people and finding practical solutions. at the same time returns need to be accelerated – also in the context of the effective implementation of the eu-turkey statement. the pace, the rhythm, of returns from greece to turkey remains critically slow with about 1 900 returns since march 2016, of which some 130 in 2019. the number is very low and we all know that. this low level of returns is a huge obstacle to any progress. at the same time, also in the area of returns, greece will not be left alone. while a lot has to do with improved procedures by the greek authorities, the european borders and coastguard agency stands ready to provide operational and financial support to greece for returning people – not only to turkey under the eu-turkey statement, but to their country of origin in full respect – i repeat it and i stress it – in full respect of the principle of non-refoulement and other safeguards embedded in our eu acquis on returns. we acknowledge the efforts of greece all these years, in all these interconnected areas. a lot has been achieved but there is still much to be done. the commission is committed to continuing working hand-in-hand with the greek authorities and together with our agencies on the ground, to mobilising all support needed there. finally, let me conclude again by recalling that only together in a spirit of trust and unity we can find sustainable solutions for the big issue of migration in europe. i welcome last week’s declaration by the president-elect when she announced that a draft proposal for a new migration package will be presented by the new commission in the first/second quarter of next year. it must indeed be our goal to become a model of how migration can be managed sustainably – with a human approach, but effectively. and believe me, our commission has put a strong basis for that. thank you very much for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not crossed by the turkish fleet, and that the turkish fleet is not forced to leave the country. in moria, in a facility housing 2,840 people, there are 15,000. on chios and samos, the capacity is 4,800 and 6,200, for 1,000 and 650 people respectively. in october alone, 3,500,000 people arrived in dozens of boats, and the flows continue. the new government is gradually decongesting the islands, moving vulnerable groups to the mainland, and has introduced a new law to speed up asylum procedures, while respecting the rights of migrants and refugees. it also organises the difficult return of migrants and strengthens the protection of the external borders. but the daily flows are making the situation worse and greece has been left alone by the member states to manage it. my colleagues, you have an obligation to stand by my country and to prove in practice that you share the problem. it is not possible to host 4 000 unaccompanied minors and the member states refuse to take part. the commissioner has just emphasized this. we are not asking for a favor or special treatment but for equal and fair management and treatment. greece is fully complying with its obligations. the european union is a democratic society, and it is not just a political union, but a political union of the people.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let me address immediately what the commissioner said, that this was a collective shame for europe, but commissioner, you mentioned europe, not just greece and last week we were able to question the new greek interior minister on the sharpest, most difficult problem in moria today, which is the 4 000 unaccompanied minors and he told us that one member state – one – had answered positively to his request to take unaccompanied minors. these are, i remind people in this chamber, minors, some of whom are trying to commit suicide, minors who are fearful when they go to bed at night. that is the shame on all of us, but one member state stumped up. the commission later informed us that three member states agreed to take in some of the minors. i could really stop there, because this tells us all we need to know about the solidarity of the member states. it tells us all we need to know about the blockage of the package on reception conditions and all the other long-term solutions that we needed to have in this area. so when we have the new pact, let’s just remember what the long-term problems are in this area. but let’s return to the short-term problems before the winter because the short-term problems are about human beings, not just the children but everyone on moria, because we’ve seen what is happening on moria; we see 17 000 people and only three or four government doctors and we see ngos telling us it’s an emergency. so let’s deal with that emergency before the winter but let’s be clear, it’s a longer-term problem and we need solidarity, real solidarity.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would like to start by saying that i in no way doubt the personal commitment of the minister and the commissioner. however, we’ve had this debate before. this is now the fourth winter – the fourth winter – that we have left people, human beings, living in appalling conditions. not because there are no boats going from the islands to the mainland. they are there for one reason only: it’s a result of policy choices, it is deliberate. we have a collective responsibility. but i would like to point the finger at the council, because i think it is deeply shameful that the council for four years now has flatly refused to take its responsibility and adopt the asylum package. i think it is remarkable that 28 leaders of eu member states – so, fairly civilized – cannot agree among them on this, but they can make a deal with mr erdoğan, they can make deal with libyan militias, and now they’re even talking about making a deal with mr assad! what planet are we living on? and you know what? asylum and migration policy is supposed to be decided by qmv, qualified majority voting, and the member states are refusing to do that, whereas we know that there is a majority. maybe, madam president, we should reintroduce national vetoes for cohesion funds and other eu funds and let’s see what that does to the sense of solidarity of some member states. we should not be settling political conflicts on the back of helpless people, vulnerable people, stuck on the islands. the first thing that needs to be done is to remove them from there, in their interests but also in the interests of the local people who have been remarkably patient – a lot more patient than some of the people in our own countries who have applied a lot of anti-migration pressure. the people in greece have been remarkably patient. so i think the council should finally take its responsibility, adopt the package, remove the people from there and let’s have a proper, humane, civilised and efficient common policy. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, as a greek and as an islander, i want to express my disappointment and sadness at the situation in the greek islands today and my sympathy for the people of these islands. but not just in words. we have to act. the greek people have elected us to have a voice in greece and in europe, the greek solution, kyriakos velopoulos and me, and that is what we will be shouting for. the dispersal of these people inland is a strategic mistake because it effectively renders ineffective the eu-turkey agreement on returns from the islands, an agreement that turkey is not complying with anyway. greece should be immediately declared in a state of emergency due to a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries, as provided for in article 78 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and urgent measures should be taken. close the greek border now! the inhabitants are bravely trying to make up for europe's inaction on a daily basis. we must not continue to waste community resources on an agreement with erdoğan which turkey is not implementing. my country can't take any more illegal immigrants. europe must act immediately, not as a mere observer of events, but as an active member of the international community. and, again, i am sad to see my country destroyed by this situation day by day. how can we allow this?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, we must first of all emphasize the very important efforts of the commissioner, mr avramopoulos, throughout this difficult test that the european union and greece have been going through. but i would like to stress two other things, because i want him and the house to know what we think of the work that mr avramopoulos has done. what's the matter? we have two worlds here, the far-right world, which has the right to make demands and talk about fortress europe, and the progressive world. there are two worlds. the protection of the european way of life is being transformed into the promotion of the european way of life. you're sticking to the wrong policy. you see people as the problem and you don't see the problem. you think the problem is the refugee and not the war. you don't see the cause, you see the effect. the situation in moria, ladies and gentlemen, is tragic. i will tell you why the policy of the right wing, the right wing of the european parliament, has failed. the left government managed 850,000 people in the four years it was in power; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think you should change your policy completely.
the european parliament's group of the kke has recently visited many of the structures that exist, both on the islands and in the mainland, and of course moria in mytilene. over 15,000 refugees are there, the majority in tents, with a doctor and a pediatrician. the explosive situation of mass confinement that has developed on lesvos, samos, chios and other islands is turning against the inhabitants and refugees and is now spreading inland. but this situation is the result of the very same anti-people policy, the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement, the dublin regulation, which was also applied by the previous government. the law of the new republic government on asylum effectively limits the concept of 'refugee' with punitive provisions against refugees, reinforcing repression at the borders, deportations, closed detention centres, as provided for in the directives of the european union. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the application of this regulation and the rules for the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 514/2014. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the animals are transported to the countries of their actual destination. no more moriah! the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease, and to prevent the spread of the disease.
madam president, the problem is enormous, not only in moria but throughout greece. the problem in my country is enormous and the question is: how is it possible to talk all the time about illegal immigrants, for whom the greeks have no responsibility for flooding our country, and not to talk about the problems that have been created for our fellow greeks? how many of you know that all over greece the greeks have risen up and are trying to drive all the illegal immigrants out of our country? we're not taking them anymore. they've broken in, they've robbed, they've done whatever they want, they've tried to change the customs and the customs of our land. they are no longer accepted by greek society, and here the european union has a huge responsibility, because under your instructions we have led to my country, greece, being at the moment a warehouse for illegal immigrants. and since you finally accept the game and the threats that erdogan and turkey are making to you, saying that, at any moment, they can open the border to allow illegal immigrants to come in here and do whatever they want in my country, at the very moment that you are giving them big funds to continue doing this, a solution from the greek government - if there was a national government, because unfortunately there is none - would be for greece to open the borders and funnel all the illegal immigrants to the rest of europe, with the dangerous jihadists and criminals that are there. let's see what you'd do then! and i want to stress, once again, that the policy of the greek government, which is moving illegal immigrants inland, is unacceptable, because we are losing the last right we have to deport illegal immigrants. the borders must be closed immediately and the illegal immigrants deported!
madam president, according to studies that have been carried out, the temperature on the planet has increased by 1% in the last 140 years. also, according to a study conducted by the un in 1998, in 2009 manhattan should not have been on the surface of the earth, but should have been submerged. i say this because it shows the climate of terror that exists and is connected to this new myth that you have been selling us, the climate change myth. there is certainly climate change, but it is part of the change that has been on the earth for millions of years. and here i want to highlight the oxymoron and the irony of the case, that we see people, who are shouting about climate change, being the ones who have luxury cars at their disposal, traveling from end to end of the world by airplanes and don't care about what is happening in general. but they are the ones who want to put the burden on the average citizen and actually make him self-punish himself, because he dares to turn on the air conditioning in his house to keep warm in the winter. these are unacceptable things. we should first look at what people who talk about climate change are doing about all this. it is not possible for them to be in the comfort of the european parliament and their own home, having a good time and talking to us about climate change, which they want to force us to believe. and i cannot accept as established what they claim. because we've reached a society where everything said about climate change can't be questioned. so let's stop this terrorism, because i'm starting to see that climate change is the new fairy tale that they're selling to bully us for the rest of our lives.
mr president, you are methodically cultivating a dangerous notion of individual responsibility. so is the pollution problem caused by the worker who has travelled by car or by air and you are burdening him with green taxes, or is it the big airline groups and the car companies of the european union, which the european union and governments subsidize with green funds? but the truth is stubborn: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. exon mobil, bp, shell, total and others advertise their green programs, and they are some of the biggest polluters. the wars over group rivalries have incalculable consequences. the protection of the environment presupposes a centrally planned economy, free from the profit criterion, free from exploitation, free from imperialist wars and monopolies, aimed at satisfying modern social needs, with full use of technological and scientific progress for the safety and health of the population and for the protection of the environment.
madam president, the european union and governments are well aware that the contradictions plaguing the capitalist economy are creating problems. they are more concerned about the difficulties of recovery, the prospect of a new synchronised crisis, the intensification of competition between the usa, the european union and china. the outcome of these competitions concerns crucial areas of profitability for the large groups, such as so-called green investments, digital, energy, which are the apple of discord, while it is precisely at this time that the conditions are being formed for who will ultimately prevail and who will be left behind. in the face of such fierce competition, eu money from the new multiannual framework is being channelled to large monopoly groups. the current conflicts are not about interests or improving the position of workers in the member states. your goal is to create a safe environment for monopolies to enrich themselves with an intensity of exploitation, stagnant wages and pensions, the dismantling of the social security system, the abolition of labor rights, the drastic restriction of trade union rights and the intensification of repression. this is what the new democracy government in greece is doing by continuing the anti-people policy of syriza, in the context of increased supervision of the european semesters, bloody primary surpluses, seizures and auctions of first homes. the council's guidelines have nothing to do with protecting the environment and protecting the public interest. the whole discussion of climate change is a sham, because the destruction of the environment is a consequence of the capitalist economy, which is driven by the pursuit of profit, as a consequence of imperialist wars. the increasing militarization, the debate on the future of nato, the attitude of france and germany in the wake of the withdrawal of the greatest military power in the european union, britain, also underline that the contradictions at the bargaining table are combined with attacks on the peoples. the peoples of europe must organize and fight for their present rights against the bleak future that is shaping up.
madam president, i am speaking in this chamber as a european citizen, and indeed we should all think like that. the dublin regulation must be replaced by a single european asylum policy, with all member states participating. we first heard about a refugee crisis sometime in 2015. that's not true. we should not be talking about a crisis, but about a large part of the developing world dreaming of the developed world, with europe being the best destination in terms of jobs and social conditions. it's a large, continuous, mass movement of population. i wonder when we will manage it as a united european issue for our citizens. the mff must take account of the ports of entry, the aegean, evros, in order to protect the social fabric, to enable the regional structures to contribute to the temporary employment and educational provision of asylum seekers. i would like to ask the council to put a proposal to the united nations for an international conference on this subject. the european union is an international force for stability and peace, but it must also involve third countries in the region.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, it is a fact that we are experiencing a serious climate crisis. natural disasters of the past have demonstrated the danger of this crisis, erasing important parts of our history and our memory. it is a destruction of valuable knowledge that is making us retreat. greece, the country from which i come, is a country with great cultural wealth and a wealth of archaeological sites, which make a significant contribution to our world cultural heritage. sadly, though, he mourns many such losses. and she's not the only one, of course. the recent example of venice shows us that we cannot and must not turn a blind eye to such losses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. it would be unjustified, even criminal, to expect them to be noted. we cannot allow the climate crisis to destroy the foundations of our civilization.
madam president, welcome to the middle ages all of a sudden. hearing all these comments: "we are not racists, they are homosexuals". that's how they describe it. "we are not racists, they are black", "we are not racists, they are jewish, they are left-wing, they are yellow, they are different". it's what we were afraid of. it is the consequence of the policy of the so-called 'european way of life' and its protection. who defines the european way of life? the gentlemen across the street, finally. and that is very, very dangerous. when the commission, when europe wants to impose banking policies, it imposes them. and here we are talking about matters of political substance. you've imposed three memoranda on us. why does it not impose substantive issues of the political aesthetics of what is defined as democracy? we must all live in this europe. the tall ones, the short ones, the gay ones, the bald ones, the white ones, the black ones... there's no way this agenda is going to pass. and one last thing and i 'm done: yesterday the greek parliament unfortunately rejected the proposal to change the constitution, which gave the possibility to all people, regardless of gender, identity, sexual orientation, to have the same rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, we obviously respect the decision of the world trade organisation on state aid to airbus and we still want a compromise solution in view of both the history and the conviction of boeing, but until that happens we cannot, commissioner, ignore the fact that there is a blatant injustice with disastrous consequences at the moment and that is because, as you know very well, 60% of the tariffs are imposed by the united states not on aircraft but on emblematic european agricultural products. in my own country, greece, after the russian embargo, which brought greek peach farmers to their knees, now mr trump's tariffs are coming and destroying $50 million worth of specialty compost exported to the united states. we, commissioner, as the european parliament, have already made a gesture of goodwill by honouring the agreement between mr juncker and mr trump on the import of beef from the united states, so we now call on you in the european commission to use all the means at your disposal to support european agricultural products. this includes direct state aid under articles 219 and 221 of the regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, and in particular in countries not linked to airbus. it is time to move from words to deeds, commissioner.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are facing a reality, and the reality is that in two weeks the appellate body is not going to be able to operate because it will have less than three judges. ambassador walker has put forward workable proposals and already interim arbitration solutions are in place with canada and norway. we recognise, of course, that the commission has really made some very concrete proposals about wto reform, not just on dispute settlement but on other matters – on rule-making and enforcement. as we move toward the ministerial conference in kazakhstan next summer, i think we need to face a truth, and the truth is that this is an enduring and a very deep crisis in the wto. you asked us to send a strong message and, with this resolution, we will do so. we send a message to the commission and to the wto members that efforts need to continue in order to unblock the appellate dispute and the appointment of judges. but i think we also need to remember, and to remind european citizens, that the wto has been, with all its shortcomings, a very effective guardian to date of our rules—based multilateral trading system. it’s safeguarded order and fairness and given us a level playing field. and these are things which we take for granted. i’d just like to close by saying that the paralysis in the appellate body is not inevitable, even though we treat it as such. maybe we need to remember that the very existence of wto is not inevitable either.
blue-card question. – mr eppink, you refer to the cost of the green new deal by 2050. recent research and scientific evidence shows that the cost of climate inaction by 2050 will be in the trillions. do you have any idea what it will cost us not to go forward with the green deal? (applause)
madam president, you have indeed had an outstanding stage presence. you have promised everything to everyone - perhaps not everyone but to specific interests and to specific political views. you told us about the militarization of europe. we have a very different view of the environment from you. you didn't say anything about labor rights, about corruption and collusion. you didn't convince us about the refugee camp. you insist on the title 'protecting' or 'promoting the european way of life', which is unacceptable to us. you have not heard any political group at all except your party; that is to say, as mr weber said, the people's party has a chairman in the commission. it's not like that. it takes composition, and composition is not your strong suit, as it already looks, so we'll go to the other level of democracy, which is political conflict. you have a lot of nerve.
in writing. – being sceptical about the college of the european commission i decided to abstain from the vote. some commissioner-designates still face issues with their conflicts of interest. however, europe requires an urgent action and cannot remain for long without guidance. the request i sent in the form of a letter to the president of the commission regarding the portfolio of the commissioners responsible for culture and education, was not answered. my firm belief is that culture and education should be prioritized. a priority mirrored not only in the titles of the portfolios but also in the policymaking of the relevant directorate-general. our stance and fight now moves to the different proposals and files to arrive to the parliament. as a house, we should make sure to exercise our right of scrutiny as efficiently as possible holding it accountable at every occasion. the new commission nonetheless, represents a much more diverse setting than previous colleges and i look forward to constructively engage with the relevant commissioners to serve all the people in the union without discrimination.
in writing. european citizens demand action, not words, to resolve serious problems in a decisive way, and after the long-awaited democratic process we must support the commission in its work. the leadership of frans timmermans is a guarantee for a swift, effective and just transition to a climate-secure world. i believe that the european green deal marks the beginning of the end of the hegemony of neoliberal doctrine and the beginning of a progressive, people-centred policy.
mr president, the recognition by the united states of israel of israeli settlements in the west bank, the so-called 'deal of the century', which effectively legitimises the illegal seizure and occupation of palestinian land by israel, and the recognition of jerusalem as israel's capital, are rewarding the escalation of aggression against the palestinian people, who are suffering from murders - even of underage children - attacks, settlements, the occupation of the holy land, thousands of civilians. the european union has great responsibilities, it keeps equal distance, identifying the victim - the palestinian people - with the perpetrator, israel. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the gaza strip. the greek governments of nd and syriza also have heavy responsibilities: the european union has been constantly expanding and upgrading its political, economic and military cooperation with the state of israel. we support the just struggle of the palestinian people and demand: the creation of an independent and sovereign palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital, the withdrawal of the israeli army from the occupied territories, the cessation of settlement activity and the departure of all settlers, the demolition of the "wall of shame", the return of palestinian refugees to their homes, the immediate release of all palestinian political prisoners. we demand that the decisions of the parliaments of 14 member states, including greece since 2015, which have recognized the palestinian state, now come into force.
mr president, in this house, i’m going to state the obvious: we are not deaf, we are not blind, and we are not mute. we are certainly not deaf: we’ve heard the european union’s position on israeli settlement policy. we heard it, in fact, from the high representative here today, as we have heard it many times in the past, including last week. we’ve certainly heard president donald trump, as well as secretary pompeo, speak very clearly on israel. we’re also not blind: for decades we’ve seen blood-soaking terrorist attacks against israeli civilians. i’ve seen this with my own eyes, in fact, in the nahal oz kibbutz, which is very close to the gaza strip, where four-year-old daniel was murdered inside his own home by hamas rockets. i’ve seen this with my own eyes, looking over villages – israeli villages – near the golan heights, where the local population is often used as a human shield against hezbollah-smuggled missiles, which are being used to attack israeli citizens. it’s quite plain to see, in fact, that israel has legitimate security concerns. we’re also not mute: in fact, the european union has been very vocal in the past as a voice of peace and stability in the region. israel is one of europe’s closest allies and we share so many common values and common interests. what we need to do now is to advance a common bilateral agenda for deepening eu-israeli ties, and it is critical that the newly elected commission prioritise this. working more closely together will not only advance peace, it will also help europe reinforce its role as an honest and balanced broker of peace. finally, given the current political instability in israel, i think that parliament has to act responsibly and refrain from interfering in internal politics. we’re not deaf, blind or mute, but sometimes silence is golden.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with those who say that we have been exaggerating in this chamber about human rights, since europe must be the beacon of democracy, human rights and development in the world. but it is true that we are idealists. we would very much like the wider middle east, our neighbourhood, to share the same values as us towards women, children, young people, the disabled, but also dissidents, disbelievers and different nationalities. but another sweden and greece and another egypt and syria. our enthusiasm may have once supported some spirited revolutions, which brought about much, much worse regimes than the ones that were originally overthrown. so we've learned that idealism has to be balanced with a little bit of realism and a vision of the outcome. we must be cunning, as agents of instability act in the wider middle east, waiting to install hardline regimes. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. and we know well that both carry the intent of self-improvement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 11 of the country's 36 million people need immediate humanitarian assistance. these people are potential refugees. they may not yet be on european soil, but i'm sure each of you can understand the father and mother who will do anything to save their child. and they will be the main mass of the uprooting. i am sure that, in addition to stopping the flight, humanity motivates us to help these people in need. many are surprised by the large number of asylum seekers. first, they can prove that they are not afraid of altruism and want to help people in need in their own country before they are forced to turn to us for help. in iraq, we know daesh well. it will only be completely defeated when the country is stabilized and developed again. it is a very european feature to take steps to stabilize the states before we have to face new, bigger problems tomorrow. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe. let us support the joint consensus action plan. lebanon is a mature democracy. the mainly peaceful demonstrations are a sign of the quality of society. we understand the transition to a technocratic government, which will allow the country to make the necessary reforms and call elections. the european attitude towards the countries of the region must be one of internal stabilisation, while promoting human rights, upholding international law, cooperation and trade with selectivity clauses.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in a few hours in this room we will be called upon to declare a climate emergency in the european union. i hope we do, because that's what's happening to our planet, and we're doing it not to protect the planet or to destroy the planet, we can't do one or the other. we're doing this because this is a public health emergency. we do this to protect people and to recognize that the highest human right is the right to breathe and to the environment that has allowed us to evolve into the beings we are today. in recent years, over five people a year have been killed, murdered, protecting natural resources. this battle will be continued by climate activists, primarily indigenous peoples, who are protecting their land and protecting ourselves. we protect forests because they protect us from overexposure to carbon dioxide. so we must stand with them. in romania, in our country, in london and everywhere else, we're going to see more climate activists, as fewer and fewer resources are available for more and more people. we must also set up a hotline, provide legal support and set up a mechanism for immediate response to environmental crimes.
mr president, josé daniel ferrer, whom you are trying to make a hero of with a resolution, is the head of the so-called patriotic union of cuba, that is to say, the most active counterrevolutionary organization in the country. he was arrested by cuban authorities after a citizen complained that he and three other like-minded people had beaten him severely, requiring hospitalization. the stories of abuse, malnutrition, etc. are lies that the us government and its embassy in havana have been manufacturing to make its men look like victims. ferrer is another figure who is more recognizable to the united states and the european union than to his own country and the cuban people. we denounce the eu's cutting-edge industry, selective protection of so-called activists, the european union's a-la-carte hypocritical concerns about human rights violations, which are a familiar tool for the most effective penetration of european monopolies into third countries, especially when these countries do not have governments of the european union's or its member states' preference.
madam president, at a time of intense competition between imperialist centres such as the european union, the united states, china and russia, and also between energy giants, the green deal is the tangible proof that climate change is being used as a pretext to give the big groups plenty of money to race against their competitors. the european union rewards big polluting interests with green funds and investments worth trillions of euros by 2030, while punishing ordinary families with every green taxation that inspires, cultivating the dangerous notion of individual responsibility. the real concerns of the people about environmental protection have nothing to do with the system of trade in pollutants, with waste exports, with the 'polluter pays' logic or with the logic of recycling only the problems. capitalists and their associations are commodifying and destroying the environment for maximum profit. that's why they're taxing the climate. only a centrally planned economy, free of exploitation, imperialist wars and monopolies, can meet modern social needs and ensure the life and health of the population and the protection of the environment.
madam president, the 'fair taxation' issue is part of the fierce debates on taxing monopolies in third countries that compete with european union companies, it is trade wars for control of highly profitable sectors of the economy, such as the digital economy, energy, so-called 'green investments'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is fair and that the taxpayer is not subject to unfair taxation. in greece, for example, where the budget of the government of the new republic is used, salaried workers and small businessmen contribute 93% of the state's tax revenue, while businesses contribute 7%. at the same time, the tax on economic groups is being reduced from 28% to 24% and the tax on dividends on net profits, i.e. entrepreneurs, is being halved to 5%, while the bloodletting of ordinary families continues. every kind of tax is imposed on the common families while industrialists are given relief with free electricity, which is very expensive for the people, with tax-free oil for the shipowners, while the poor farmers are taxed. this is the new normal that the current administration is preaching and the previous administration was implementing. the workers and the popular strata must fight for effective taxation of capital gains, the abolition of tax breaks, a tax-free threshold to cover the needs of the popular family, the abolition of high, very unfair, indirect taxes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply and i thank the european people's party for supporting the effort to put this very serious matter on the agenda. no institution, no tradition, no power in the world can stop our thirst for human dignity, for true freedom. and in foundations, we're not just talking about wasted money, we're talking about wasted human lives. people stacked and tied up, without care, because somehow we're used to it. dignity is to rebel against the indifference that becomes habit. to refuse to accept the waste of human life, as well as to rebel against corruption and exploitation. dignity is honoring all our fellow citizens. the big issue is not more money. according to a new york times report, companies that hire disabled workers have on average 23% higher profits, as our need to constantly try to overcome social barriers makes us innovative. i ask that we all agree on the basics: institutionalisation is a human rights violation made in eu, a prison funded by the european commission. let's stop funding the foundations now. all institutions present a more or less bad image. the reality in bulgaria, romania, greece and even brussels is disheartening. the charter of human rights that preceded the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities states that all citizens, disabled or not, must be able to choose their lives as free people, as equal citizens. independent living is possible in a society with access to education, health, work, freedom of choice. it is important not to stop at declarations but to ensure that all policies include and implement a disability clause. can the commission make investments in inclusion and accessibility a priority in all eu policies? do you think that accessibility initiatives are part of our new vision for the green new deal? can the new commission confirm that it will actively promote the transition to 'personal assistants' through the promotion of best practices and through the overall transfer of funds allocated to the institutions? moreover, can we ensure a single labour market for disabled people? i thank you and look forward to your replies.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of our delegation in madrid, i have witnessed the failure of the international community to reach an agreement. i was witness to the agony of 500,000 young people in the streets of madrid, demanding immediate and effective measures. i have witnessed the anguish of the small island states of the pacific literally sinking. i also witnessed the failure of chile's neoliberal "escape government" to lead the process. witness the murderous inaction of daredevil far-right governments who are forming a new black international against our effort to prevent climate catastrophe. i have also witnessed the european commission's agonizing effort to defend the environmental and political integrity of the paris agreement. ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing i have learned in madrid, it is that we have a duty to lead the fight for a humane world with climate justice and climate security. we must lead by example, by implementing the green deal for climate neutrality in our own home. it is our duty to young people and to the world. i'll see you in glasgow.
in writing. as the eu celebrates the 10th anniversary of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, people can draw valuable lessons from the anti-people roadmap that has been built at their expense. the cfsp, pesco, the new intervention financing funds, have strengthened the militarisation of the eu and the aggressiveness of the european monopolies in their fierce confrontation with the other imperialist centres and powers. the treaty has armed the eu and governments with more brutal means of promoting anti-people policies: control of state budgets, the euro, memoranda of understanding, the crushing of wages and pensions. it has enlarged existing and created new mechanisms of repression (europolice, euroborder guard, eurogospel, etc.), made the restriction of popular freedoms and rights more stifling by strengthening anti-communism, persecutions against communist parties. it has turned the mediterranean into a watery grave for thousands of displaced refugees and migrants. the only rights that the so-called "charter" really guarantees are the "inviolable property of capitalists, the free movement of capital, the recognition of the employers' strike. the 'euro treaties' are nothing but shackles, with which the eu and governments, chain workers to the interests of capital. the people have the power to free themselves from the tyranny of the monopolies, by breaking free from the eu and nato, by taking power and the economy, by building the europe of socialism.
madam president, i welcome the council's conclusions on the illegal agreement between turkey and libya, because the support that the european union has given to greece and cyprus is an important step for the stability of the mediterranean and for the protection of our maritime borders. it is also a strong argumentative proof and a response to the unfounded allegations of the turkish side. nevertheless, as has been repeatedly demonstrated in the past, the turkish government is defiantly ignoring the rules of international law, in this case the law of the sea, and is aggressively pursuing a political strategy which is in violation of every rule and every acquis. and with these provocative interventions, turkey and president erdoğan are aiming to destabilize the mediterranean and by extension europe itself. the behaviour of regional agitators must therefore be dealt with at european level, uniformly, in a coordinated manner, immediately and with sanctions. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, the debate on venezuelan refugees is a continuation of the resolutions recognizing the straw man of the united states of america, guaidó, as interim president instead of the elected president maduro. the european union is supporting the coup d'état plan of the united states of america, the member states of the lima group and the organization of american states. the poverty, the problems facing the venezuelan people, the negative economic situation are all part of the deep capitalist crisis facing venezuela, which is being aggravated by imperialist sanctions and by the interference of the united states of america and the european union in its internal affairs. your pretended sensitivities to refugees are nothing more than a familiar tool, a tool for european companies and monopolies to penetrate third countries, especially when those countries do not have governments of the eu's preference. in particular, in a country rich in natural gas, oil, precious metals, such as venezuela, they are also manifested in this way. the united states and the european union are continuing their race against their international competitors, who have for years been operating under a joint venture agreement. we condemn the attempted coup d'état by the united states of america and the european union in venezuela to overthrow the elected president. we express our internationalist solidarity with the people of venezuela and the communists who are fighting for the people's interests. the venezuelan people are the only ones who have the power to determine the social and political developments in their country.
madam president, we are having another conversation which in my view is extremely hypocritical and it is hypocritical because, according to all the data, there is nothing that the european parliament and the european union will be able to do to stop what is happening in venezuela. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. so, let's see and agree what? that the venezuelan regime has created an unacceptable attitude and an unacceptable situation for the people of the country? i'm sure you will. what is the status there? let's not forget that this is a communist regime. it is the communist regime which, where it has prevailed, where it has taken the reins in its hands, has really leveled the people, has leveled the very citizens of its countries. so let's start there and see what else happens. let us see if the european union has the ability to stop this. turns out not, and we're just having conversations, just for the sake of having conversations. we talk for the sake of talking. and how can the opinion and the view of the european union be imposed on venezuela or on something so far away from us, when here next to us, on the border of europe, on the border with my country, greece, turkey is doing whatever it wants. a hard dictator is in my opinion erdoğan, he does what he really wants there, he has opened the border and is smuggling illegal immigrants in masses into the european union, he threatens and constantly wins. it does indeed do what it wants, and it wants fat funds from europe to do all this. so figure out how to stop all of these people right here in our neighborhood, and then, slowly, we can stop the others, farther away from us.
