madam president, when we talk about gender-sensitive policies in the european parliament, it is difficult not to start with the numerous testimonies of sexual harassment of women in this institution. every person who is sexually harassed must have full institutional protection, and we cannot send a message to women that they have to endure abhorrent behavior in order to achieve their careers. it is also a sad fact that many women do not get the jobs they deserve just because they are women, but it would be no less defeating to hire people just because of their gender. i myself as a police officer was a victim of discrimination, but i fought and fought for my place among my male colleagues fairly and equally. we are coming up on the european elections and the composition of this house will be changing a lot, and there will be a change among the administrative staff. the citizens of europe need the most capable, the most diligent, the most courageous, the most innovative and the most incorruptible representatives and administrators. what they are, it's much less important.
the respect for the presidency, the capacity and efficiency of public administration have a major impact on how a member state uses the european funds available. the experiences vary, and some members are far more successful than others. it should be said that there is no great conspiracy and that the less successful members are to blame for not using european funds as much as they could. on the other hand, it is our duty to point out the shortcomings, to propose solutions and to lend a hand so that their citizens can also enjoy the benefits of membership to the greatest extent possible. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the financial control of the european union. but the structural reform support programme, for which i was rapporteur, and other programmes that rely on the cohesion funds, can make a dramatic difference because, through funding at european level, they offer the opportunity to educate, professionalise and better organise public administration at national, regional and local level.
member of the commission. – madam president, first let me thank the rapporteur, mr grzyb, and parliament for the good cooperation on this report. we very much share its spirit and the call to deepen our work on freedom of religion or belief outside the eu. as the report stresses, freedom of religion or belief is dramatically under attack across the world. people of all faiths are being persecuted because of their beliefs. as the report stresses, discrimination based on faith is widespread. legislative hurdles for registering religious groups are proliferating, as well as blasphemy and apostasy laws criminalising freedom of thought. as many of you stressed here, these are first and foremost violations of fundamental human rights embedded in the universal declaration that was approved just over 70 years ago. faith cannot be imposed and it cannot be prohibited. the report stresses that these violations also undermine a society’s resilience. they hamper development and they foster instability and war. for these reasons, in the past year we raised our concerns about violations of religious freedom in more than 20 human rights dialogues with countries from the middle east and north africa and from several parts of asia. both the eu special representative for human rights and the special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief have been actively promoting this right worldwide. they both conducted several missions to engage with governments and religious actors. i want to highlight the multilateral dimension of our work on this issue. the report underscores the necessity to keep working actively within the united nations system and praises the current eu engagement. i can reassure you that in 2019 we will continue to honour this commitment. in all our dialogues we stress that all human rights are connected and that freedom of religion and belief must go together with freedom of expression, freedom of association and peaceful assembly, but also with women’s rights and lgbti rights. the report calls for stronger interinstitutional cooperation. since the elaboration of the eu guidelines on freedom of religion or belief in 2013, this has been a constant goal for our action. the best way to foster coordination is to have a common understanding of the tools available and the challenges we face. as the report emphasises, in order to achieve our common vision, we have multiplied training for our staff both in brussels and delegations. in line with the report’s recommendations, we will keep engaging actively with religious leaders, scholars, faith-based organisations, non—believers and human rights defenders. the overall picture is not at all rosy, yet we still witness signs of hope. for instance, we have seen in 2018 some prominent freedom of religion and belief defenders freed from jail. in different parts of africa faith leaders have led reconciliation dialogues. as we fight against the violations of freedom of religion and belief, we will also continue to support these signs of hope all across the world.
written. one in ten christians in the world today suffers from some form of religious persecution whether it is discrimination or severe violence. religious persecution today takes many forms and is intensifying day by day, with christians being the most persecuted religious group in the world. every year, 255 christians are killed and 104 are kidnapped. each year, 180 christian women are raped, sexually abused, or forced into marriage. 66 christian churches are attacked each year. each year, 160 christians are imprisoned without trial. mr jan figel's task as the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the eu is not an easy one, but he has carried it out with great responsibility over the past two and a half years. as much as he could within the possibilities that were given to him, and they are not really great. the fact is, this mandate is advisory only. it's a contractual arrangement with no regular pay, no staff and no budget for the work. i consider it essential to strengthen institutionally the mandate of the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the eu. the lives of millions of christians are at risk every day, and they need concrete solutions and action from the eu. words are just a blank page on a piece of paper unless you turn them into deeds.
the european union has been a party to the disintegration of certain african states, justifying these ill-considered interventions by fighting dictatorships and supporting democratic processes. today, these countries are no longer functional, their central authorities are weak or non-existent, and it is impossible to work with them effectively to stem the tide of migration at this point. this means that the european union must redouble its efforts to successfully secure its external borders, break smuggling chains and bring order to its migration policy. further toleration of illegal immigration will only strengthen organized crime. in order to make migration and asylum policies fit for purpose, we need a clear division between genuine asylum seekers, refugees and economic migrants. the procedure and criteria for these three groups cannot be the same because their needs are different. the system that we have had in place has allowed for massive fraud and that's a problem that we need to address.
i am glad that you are here today, mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the romanian government, and that the first romanian presidency is in place; and with it the presidency of the first trio has begun, this trio in which my country, croatia, also participates, and i hope that we will work well together. i have looked at your priorities and heard what you have said, and i am sure that cohesion and convergence are very important and that the adoption of a multiannual financial framework will be a difficult task for you. i also like that you mentioned the inequalities in eastern and western europe, north and south, and that you want to work on that. i hope you'll succeed in doing so, because it would be in all our interests. also, the mention of a safe europe is very important because we want both romania and croatia and bulgaria to join schengen and i hope that you will work intensively on this and that you will help all of us together to enter the schengen area so that europe finally does two-speed. you also mentioned in your priorities a strong europe, europe as a global partner. you mention nato, of course it is very important, however, what concerns me most is this last point of yours, and that is the point of a europe of common values, which you also talked about. i have to ask you a few questions, given that you have already heard about it from your colleagues: there are many protests on the streets of romania, there is talk about the rule of law and it is said that the rule of law is subject to subsidiarity. we can't possibly agree with that. have you heard what the citizens of romania are saying in the streets? have you heard what they want to tell you? and did you stand up for the rule of law? that is what is very important for your presidency to be successful, if you could answer those questions.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has adopted a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. this, together with the elections to the european parliament, will determine the immediate future of this community. i hope that the internal problems romania is facing will not diminish the ambitions set out in the programme of activities. the union must not waste time, because while we are sweeten our political map and finance, the world does not rest. the challenges of migration cannot wait, nor can our positioning in a rapidly changing world. i consider it extremely important that the romanian presidency is planning to address these issues. the question of security must not be left on the back burner either. europe is not insecure, but it is not as safe as it was until recently, as the frequent attacks have shown. protecting our borders and our citizens must be one of our top priorities.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fernandes, for his excellent work and to congratulate in particular vice-president katainen, who has worked diligently and visited all the member states under the previous programme, the efsi. thanks to the success we have had with the efsi, we can now also talk about a new programme, the investeu programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the financial markets, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the financial markets. that's the first. the second, which is very important, is our willingness to take greater risks. so, not just funding public projects, but starting to fund more innovators, innovation, start-ups, because that's what's going to lift the economy and drive development.
the commission presented its proposal on 6 june 2018 to establish the investeu programme, the main objective of which is to guarantee support for investments and access to finance in the eu. investeu builds on the success of the efsi, which was set up in the wake of the financial crisis and became a springboard for investment in the areas of the economy that needed it most. the programme proposes a single fund based on guaranteed eur 38 billion of union funds to mobilise public and private funds in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other market instruments for strategic investments to support the internal policies of the eu. the investeu advisory hub and the investeu portal are provided to facilitate access to the fund. the programme is intended for four policy areas for which the following amounts of investment are envisaged: sustainable infrastructure (up to eur 11,5 billion), research, innovation and digitalisation (up to eur 11,25 billion), small and medium-sized enterprises (up to eur 11,25 billion) and social investment and skills (up to eur 4 billion). the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the union's climate and energy policy. i believe that investeu will contribute to improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the union's economic growth and to the integration of the union's capital markets.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, thank you for your contribution to this debate. since the brexit referendum, the eu has focused on the issue of further political reintegration, and the election of president trump and the redefinition of the american position have pushed us further in that direction, which i think is completely wrong. i am therefore pleased that you have addressed some of the major challenges that are not linked to political integration, such as labour rights and public services, which you have brought together under the term social europe. europe must remain a bastion of workers' rights, but equally, if it wants to remain globally competitive, it must not kill entrepreneurship with high taxes and unnecessary regulation. it is clear that we are on the verge of a new recession and in this context we must be very careful about public spending. i would recommend it to you, because spain's long-standing deficit-playing could make a future crisis in europe a real disaster.
mr president, we could not agree with the proposal to reduce investment in the european social fund by almost 7 billion euros and our proposal, the european parliament's proposal, goes in exactly the opposite direction: a jump from the current 96 to a new 106 billion euros. this instrument is of crucial importance for new knowledge in the european union, for new skills, for the digital transformation, for preparing for new jobs, especially in relation to youth employment, and on the other hand for social solidarity, i.e. improving the living conditions of persons with disabilities, the inclusion of marginalised groups in everyday social life and, in particular, the eradication of poverty, especially as regards child poverty. that is why we are asking for more funds and more activities aimed at new knowledge and social solidarity.
i welcome this proposal from the european commission on the european social fund plus for the period 2021-2027. it is not just about employment and social inclusion, but this social fund remains part of cohesion policy and will include the european youth initiative and a number of other programmes that will continue to be part of cohesion policy. as it is now €106 billion, i think that is enough money, which represents 27% of the total cohesion policy at the moment. i think it is good that the way in which these funds are obtained will be simplified, that there will be more flexibility and that existing procedures will be optimized. in any case, this is a good step forward and the european social fund plus i supported it with today's vote.
mr president, european territorial cooperation programmes are of the utmost importance for strengthening european solidarity and unity. in particular the first component, crossborder cooperation, and that is why i am pleased that we in parliament have accepted an increase in the amount for crossborder cooperation and that this allocation within the four components is still more on the side of crossborder cooperation compared to the european commission's proposal. we are investing a total of 11 billion euros in these programmes. this is a substantial amount that must be used efficiently and in the simplest way possible. i am therefore pleased that a large number of the amendments i proposed in relation to simplifying the implementation procedure have been incorporated into the final text and that we will nevertheless have less administrative investment and burden on the implementation side of these programmes in the future, which is what the beneficiaries have most often shown in practice. also, the last component, innovation, is extremely important, and i hope that we will be able to increase the overall envelope by 0.3% so that we can invest as much as possible in innovation.
mr. chairman, my interest in this subject stems from the fact that i was the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the foreign affairs committee on this subject. i would like to thank in particular those who have worked in the committee on regional development and who have contributed greatly to making this subject relevant in such a way that we expect procedures to be simplified, resources to be more easily available, and controls to be established, but not to be multiple. that's the main reason. we know why interreg was set up in the first place, so that countries that share a border, whether on land or sea, could work together better. what this proposal says is that these are small projects, citizen-to-citizen, which is very important and i really welcome that and i hope that this report will also contribute to greater flexibility, to better use, to reducing administrative barriers and that these projects will really benefit our citizens. the amount of 11 billion euros is not insignificant, and i therefore welcome the initiative and, of course, parliament, which has amended the basic report.
mr. chairman, concerns about the overuse of glyphosate have resulted in the establishment of an ad hoc committee on the use of pesticides. i think the one-year work of this committee was very high quality, 30 members worked on it intensely, and this is one of the few reports that ideologically opposed sides, right and left, came very close. so, one of the few reports where we voted almost unanimously today. i think we're headed in the right direction. what's important is that there are two phases of approval. one is at european level, for active substances, and the other is at national level, for the use of plant protection products. i think it's very good, that it's gradual and that we're moving in the right direction because first of all, though, we have to take care of people's health here. when we talk about the future of the european union, health is number one.
mr. chairman, reading this report, one gets the impression that a human being who is not a woman, a migrant or a member of a minority group has no human rights or cannot be threatened. we must finally reject the leftist narrative that human rights are reserved for the few. the rapporteur forgets the millions of people in europe who are homeless, in debt slavery or whose families have been thrown out on the streets. he did not think of the schoolchildren who live in poverty and whose parents cannot afford their meals. the right to a home and dignity are fundamental rights that this house often forgets, while at the same time promoting fundamental rights that are not, like the right to abortion or the right to cross the border illegally. let us finally begin to see human beings as equal, to commit ourselves to everyone and to defend with the same zeal the human rights of all citizens.
the union is held together by common interests and fundamental values. and while no one needs to be specifically told that he is doing things in his own best interests, the fact is that fundamental values are often neglected in pursuit of that interest. and interest must not be overridden by values, but aligned with them. logically, therefore, members who violate the treaties by disregarding fundamental values should not pursue their interests by using common financial resources. but theory and practice are at odds here. we have seen very inflammatory interpretations of the core values and attempts to discipline members who have a somewhat different vision of the union than those currently in the lead. it's a path to sanity. i've seen enough to know what these mechanisms are for, and that's why i'm not going to support this in the vote.
mr president, the protection of human rights, human dignity, eu values, the rule of law, democracy - there is no alternative and i cannot agree that this is a matter of protecting the eu's financial interests and the budget. this is a matter of protecting the eu as a whole, far beyond financial interests alone. the measures we take cannot be linked to the resources used by individual member states because that would mean that for the same human rights violations or judicial malfunctioning, for example, we punish more in countries that use more eu funds and less in countries that use less eu budget funds. although the other rapporteurs have made considerable improvements to the commission's proposal, which was not feasible in practice, this regulation still needs to be finalised and ensured uniform application in all member states, regardless of currency.
the author. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the detailed consultations on the mehman huseynov case. as the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party for the report on azerbaijan and now the epp negotiator for this resolution, i believe that this resolution underlines the importance of the issue of bilateral relations between the european union and azerbaijan. the new eu-azerbaijan partnership agreement should be given high priority and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms should be at the heart of the new agreement. mehmet huseynov is an anti-corruption blogger and director of the institute for freedom and security, who was sentenced to two years in prison for publicly complaining about his experience with the police and about ill-treatment and torture in the police after criticizing public officials by publishing details of their undeclared wealth. two months before his release, for allegedly assaulting a prison guard, he faces a sentence of five to seven years. the resolution calls for the immediate release of mr. huseynov and the provision of professional medical assistance, stressing the importance of democratizing society and protecting human rights. the aim is to send a message that the european union does not intend to break off ties and cooperation with azerbaijan but aims, as a sign of support, to help find solutions and models in achieving azerbaijan's transformation into a democratic and tolerant society. the european union is currently the only authority to help the country strengthen these rights through dialogue. i hereby call for the release of all prisoners of conscience. europe must stand by the principle on which it is founded, which is freedom of thought and speech in the countries with which it cooperates. i am not referring specifically to azerbaijan, but to all the third countries with which europe cooperates without selective application of the same principles, both the european union and this parliament. this right, which is the foundation of the declaration of human rights, must not be exercised selectively. this resolution is good in that it also warns of the position of azerbaijan in freedom of speech, which is, unfortunately, the 163rd country out of 183 countries. it was tragic. the use of funds to buy influence from politicians, journalists and those who can, through their former political connections, shape public opinion in europe and in the centres of political power is worrying. this has got to stop. i expect immediate assistance to huseynov, his release and adequate medical attention. release, also, all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience because that is unacceptable in the 21st century. friendships with partner countries must be built on mutual values. ours are protection of the weak and freedom of speech. that, mr. chairman and esteemed commissioner, is not negotiable. rights are not negotiable, the protection of the weakest must be the cornerstone of european foreign policy and the foundation on which we will build our relations with all third countries, regardless of where they come from. that is what we must fight for in this parliament and that is what i will fight for as long as i am an mp.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. you spoke of hypocrisy here in this parliament a moment ago: all right, i hear you! but you do not think that hypocrisy exists in your political group, where the members of the league, mrs beghin of the five star movement, who are in the italian government, are not present today. no one speaks for the rice producers of italy. why would you do that? do you not think that this is also political hypocrisy?
mr president, i would like to express my support for all the speakers who have made it clear that we must protect european rice production and european producers, in any case, against a kind of unfair competition. we must do everything we can to make their production more competitive. what i want to stress, because i know very well the situation in italy, the situation among italian rice producers and their initiatives that went directly to the commission, is that the commission takes decisions like this, which i consider positive and which i consider to be in the direction of solving this problem. that is why i expressed my great regret and disappointment that there is no one here from the italian representatives, those in power from cinque stelle and legge, but unfortunately not from the opposition either. i think it's really something that needs to be said clearly, that when the commission does some good work, then those who are, simply put, populists don't want to be present because they don't want to tell the truth. what is true, the truth should be told to the rice producers in italy, and that is that this time the commission has given the whole chance to save the rice production in italy as well.
mr president, the european union is a community of different countries with different traditions and development paths. we share some common interests and values, but they cannot erase our differences in culture and mentality. insisting on universal solutions can only drive us apart and into conflict because one side will always feel that something is being imposed on it. hungary is a country with a long history and rich traditions which has a different view of certain things in the union than some other member states. the hungarian people choose the government they want, and she implements a political program for which she has won legitimacy in the elections. it is the right of citizens who disagree with the authorities to protest peacefully and to use other democratic instruments to express their views. the government must make this possible, and it is up to us, in dialogue with the hungarian authorities, to help citizens to enjoy their democratic rights as easily as possible. the rest is up to the hungarian people, and the union must not undermine democracy in one sovereign state because of someone's preferences.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me react to some of the things that were said. first of all, those who are saying, ‘there’s nothing to see here, nothing’s happening, it’s all a political game’, let me just refer to what i said in my introduction. we are looking at very specific issues and we are asking questions and if we believe that the answer to those questions does not deliver compatibility with eu law, we will proceed. i mentioned the so-called stop soros law. we will have questions about that. the relocation outside of hungary of the us-accredited programmes of the central european university – somebody here said ‘nothing’s changed’. well, something has changed, very drastically, and we have questions about that. the merger of more than 400 media outlets without the competent authorities even being allowed to check whether this is in line with legislation. these are all very concrete things. the adoption of two new laws establishing an administrative court system – we have very concrete questions about that. the adoption of the new law on overtime – a lot has been discussed about that. we have questions about that, whether that’s compatible with eu law and this brings me to the point of principle i would like to make about this. always, democracy is then invoked as justification for not complying with eu legislation. that’s not the nature of democracy. that’s not the nature of how this european union works. hungary chose, fortunately – and it was a wonderful choice – hungary chose – it is a sovereign choice – to become a member of the european union. it was a choice and it was ratified by parliament and confirmed in a referendum by the hungarian people. if you choose to become a member of a treaty-based organisation like the european union, you – by that choice – say you will follow the rules of that treaty. the european commission has been given the task of looking into whether member states follow the rules of the treaty, and the rules of the treaty are very, very clear on many issues and, especially, the rule of law is very clear. article 2 and article 19 of the treaty stipulate very clearly the separation of powers, the independence of the media, etc., etc. that’s what we’re looking at. this is not about a fight against countries who do not want migrants. this is not about attacking the democracy of a member state or the cultural diversity within the european union. this is about holding countries accountable for something they chose to do without any pressure from anybody else, a sovereign choice of countries to join the european union and that is the beauty of this organisation – that this is a sovereign choice. by doing that, hungary also had a lot of benefits, a lot of benefits. many other member states showed, over the years, huge solidarity with hungary so that it could catch up with the rest of the european union and prosper as every hungarian citizen deserves. but membership doesn’t come with only rights; it also comes with obligations and the obligations are stipulated in the treaty, and i think it is the duty of eu institutions – the european parliament, the council and the european commission – to hold each other accountable as far as the application of eu law is concerned. that is what we’re doing in the case of hungary, like in any other member state, nothing more and nothing less. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure the house once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. they are at the heart of our concerns. we are ready to keep you informed on developments, and i can assure members that the presidency will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate. we have heard your request and we remain open to a pragmatic approach. thank you very much once again for your attention.
written. the yellow vest protests in france have been going on for more than two months. in paris, we have witnessed violence and brutality under the guise of protests and struggles for civil and labor rights. but in the european parliament we are not discussing the violence in the streets of france in which hundreds of thousands of people took part, and in which dozens of people were killed, but we are discussing once again hungary and the reforms that the legitimately elected government is implementing there. it is good to remember that the european union is based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, although it is not uncommon to have the impression that these two principles are actually being abused because they are sometimes violated and sometimes their violation is ignored. unfortunately, this house also adopts legislation that interferes with areas that should be under the direct responsibility of the member states, such as the health and education systems. on the other hand, the implementation of some reforms for which national governments are responsible is in question. i believe that we need to put the principle of subsidiarity back at the heart of the eu's actions and decision-making process. the union must respect the member states in order to strengthen itself, its strength and the future of the european project lie on the one hand in the common principles and values on which it is founded and on the other in respect for the sovereignty of the member states and their powers.
written. i consider that venezuela needs the restoration of democracy and the rule of law through a credible political process because the elections held on 20 may 2018 were not conducted in accordance with the minimum international standards to ensure a credible process and political pluralism, democracy, transparency and the rule of law were not respected during those elections. on 10 january 2019, nicolás maduro illegitimately assumed presidential powers before the supreme court, in violation of the constitutional order. the eu, along with other democratic countries and regional organisations, has not recognised either these elections or the authorities appointed by this illegitimate process. furthermore, i strongly condemn the violence that has led to killings and injuries during the current state of emergency in that country and i believe that the venezuelan authorities should put an end to all human rights violations and hold the perpetrators accountable. all of this is mentioned in this motion for a resolution, which i supported, because it recognizes juan guaidó as the legitimate interim president of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in accordance with article 233 of the constitution of venezuela. this document also calls on the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take a firm stand together with the eu member states and also to recognise juan guaidó as the only legitimate interim president until new elections can be called.
madam president, in venezuela these days we can see what happens to societies where there is no market competition. the elimination of economic freedoms necessarily leads to the elimination of other freedoms because policies that do not allow citizens to control their own wallets very quickly begin to interfere dangerously in other spheres of their lives. free markets are the prerequisite for economic development and prosperity. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. the legislator is there to set the rules of the competition, not to decide the winner, and we must therefore be careful not to over-regulate the market and thus upset the balance and put certain entities in a privileged position. market competition is the main guarantee of the global competitiveness of the european economy, innovation and investment in development, quality of products and services and more affordable prices for consumers. the more competition, the better for everyone.
the protection of the union's financial interests is one of those important issues where it is particularly important to respect the principles of balance and proportionality. the mechanisms necessary to combat fraud impose a certain burden on the economy. we must ensure that the burden is as low as possible and that the legal mechanisms are as selective as possible, that is, that they catch those who cheat with great precision. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. we must never forget that it is smes that are the backbone of the european economy and that they employ the vast majority of employees in the private sector and that any unnecessary burden can cost some of their employees their jobs.
mr president, the integration of national minorities is a special test for any society, and especially for a homogeneous society which, in its past development, has had no experience of this process. not surprisingly, in such societies, misunderstandings of people who are different from them are higher, and the integration process often meets with resistance. however, the croatian example also shows the reverse tendency for political representatives of national minorities to advocate self-segregation in order to consolidate their power and build political careers in the absence of integration. we must send a strong message from this house that no form of segregation is welcome on the soil of europe. as for the specifically roma minority, i would still like them to make a little more effort to integrate in the countries where they live, and the first rule of integration should be that the law is equal for all.
mr president, mr sipilä, i agree with you that if the union wants to promote certain values in its foreign policy, it must also protect those values in its own backyard. however, the value component of this community must not be subject to arbitrary interpretations designed to establish a framework imposed by a few member states with a brussels administration. the values should be a commonly accepted source around which all members converge. the use of financial mechanisms to force certain member states to adopt a dominantly liberal narrative and to disregard the national interest is completely unacceptable. the union's values should bring us together and should not be used to subdue the disobedient with undisputed electoral legitimacy. our slogan is "united in diversity", but the reality is that we are divided by imposed uniformity. let's go back to recognizing diversity and subsidiarity and work on consensus instead of imposition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to put the following question in italian to avoid any misunderstanding. what he said just now is fine with me: the hatred that was there is no more. that's why it's important to say the right words. to say italian istria, italian dalmatia, can have other meanings as well. i ask you to clarify this, because your statement was not well received. it could be dangerous. i give you the opportunity, mr president, and i ask you to clarify these statements, because they are very important for the people living in istria today, for the exiles. i went to a bilingual school in istria with my friends and i want to live in peace. help us, please.
mr president, i think you should be more careful because all of croatia, all of slovenia is talking about it. you know very well that dalmatia and istria are croatian regions and that they suffered greatly under the italian occupation and felt all the horrors of the fascist conquering regime. without any intention to diminish the importance of commemorating the victims of communist crimes because my family also suffered under communism, i consider it shameful that the speaker of parliament represents imperialist aspirations and openly represents his own territory over someone else's. your speech in trieste, at least as interpreted by the media, mr president, has awakened among the croats of istria and dalmatia painful memories of fascism, occupation, persecution, murder, abuse and the systematic imposition of the italian language and culture on the croatian people. i'm asking you to really clarify because, as i said, the whole of croatia is buzzing about it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. in doing so, we need to be careful that the monitoring itself does not overly complicate the withdrawal process and make it less efficient, as it is in our interest to ensure that the funds are used by those to whom they are intended and within the timeframe foreseen. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the needless creation of new joint bodies with insufficiently well-defined competences would be completely wrong and would create additional disorder, and i am much more inclined towards this solution.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the regional approach to regulating fishing effort ensures that each sea basin will be approached with respect for its specificities. that's the approach i've advocated since day one, and i can only support it. this is extremely important if we want good regulation that is not discriminatory and puts fishermen from certain regions at a disadvantage in the market. when we discussed the adriatic, my position as rapporteur was that we need not a one-size-fits-all solution that blindly favors industry or environmentalists, but sustainable regulation based on proven solutions and scientific research. i support the same approach when it comes to western waters. the possibility for scientific advice to propose changes to the regulation to the commission in line with the real state of fish stocks is a step forward which i believe will ensure quality solutions in the future.
mr president, as you know, the treaty of lisbon is basically a rewritten european constitution, which was rejected in referendums. with minimal corrections, citizens were handed what they didn't want and what europe wasn't ready for. thus, a contractual framework was created for a federation that does not yet exist in reality and which the citizens do not support. in this legal vacuum before and after each european election, the institutions of the union battle each other for supremacy, and we have, through such a heated interpretation, a system of spitzenkandidaten, about which there is still no consensus. good faith cooperation between the eu institutions, rather than power struggles, is the first prerequisite for a better functioning of the union. it is necessary to raise the level of political and professional accountability to avoid vague scenarios such as last year's shameful appointment of a new secretary-general of the commission for which no one was accountable.
respected chairman, peaceful protest is an important instrument of expressing discontent in a democratic society. some ruling politicians are not looking kindly on him because they feel that with electoral legitimacy they have the right to do whatever they want until the next election. that's a pretty authoritative view of the behavior of government, which doesn't belong in 21st century europe. the union, in cooperation with the governments of the member states, should ensure that citizens in all member states can freely exercise their right to freedom of expression and protest. it is also important to minimise the administrative barriers that are often placed in front of protesters. the registration of a protest rally must be quick, simple and free, instead of trying to discourage citizens with various compilations and impositions. the right to free protest, of course, does not presuppose violence, but violent individuals have a name and surname and should be punished individually and should not be used as a justification for the disproportionate use of force against all protesters.
mr president, the future of europe is a very important subject, but i fear that it is becoming a mixture of fear, deliberately contaminating citizens in an election year, and beautiful wishes that are difficult to achieve. on the one hand, people are afraid of russian propaganda, irregular elections, fake news, populists or new conflict in ireland over a hard border after brexit, and on the other, it offers very little concrete change to the existing institutional framework that is clearly not working. a good part of the european establishment has remained trapped in the federalist vision of europe of the 1950s and simply cannot adapt to new circumstances or to the wishes of its citizens. anyone else who disagrees with this outdated vision is called a populist, often without any basis. constructive debate cannot be conducted with labels and rhetoric, two monologues do not make a dialogue, and without real dialogue we will never find answers to the challenges of the future.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the deve committee. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating my colleague, elisabetta gardini, on the very well-written report of the european civil protection mechanism, and the european union commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management, christos stylianides. in my role as rapporteur for the opinion on behalf of the committee on development, i participated in the preparation of this report on the support to the mechanism, in which i stressed the need to strengthen national civil protection capacities and that the instruments at the level of the european union, in the case of union civil protection mechanisms, complement them. the new mechanism should not operate in isolation, but should build on the strength of other european instruments and focus on risk prevention. faced with the fires in southern europe, we could not remain passive. with the great material damage and human casualties and the many shortcomings in the existing disaster management mechanisms, we had to react. i would like to emphasise that the report includes a provision allowing member states that are not able to participate in joint civil protection capacities a co-financing rate of no more than 55% of the eligible transport costs, which is of particular importance for the republic of croatia. croatia is a crisis point bordering the rest of south east europe and needs to be monitored with particular attention in the allocation of funds, so the focus should be on strengthening all preventive measures. the commission has adopted amendments to allow the power to allocate rescue capacity, while the operational control in crisis areas remains under the control of the member states. i thank the president, and i thank once again all those who have worked to ensure that this mechanism, which is the best thing we could do for the citizens of the european union, is given its full force and that citizens do not feel isolated, wherever they may be.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like, first and foremost, to thank ms simona bonafè and the shadow rapporteurs for the very hard work done on the proposal setting minimum requirements for water reuse. the european parliament’s work will be instrumental. it is very important in taking this important dossier forward in the forthcoming negotiations. as simona already mentioned, water is a very precious resource. it is indispensable for all of us, whether it’s for industry, for agriculture or the many other uses. however, it is also an increasingly scarce resource. today, one-third of the european union territory already suffers from water stress all year round. as the summer of 2018 has dramatically shown, water stress is becoming a concern for many member states, even for those that are not usually associated with water scarcity, even member states that are not even associated with drought. these problems are likely to worsen, mainly due to climate change. together with water savings and water efficiency measures, water reuse can play an important part in addressing such problems, also, in the framework of the integrated water management policy. the proposal on water reuse, which we are debating today, promotes treated urban wastewater as a reliable alternative water supply for agricultural irrigation. it seeks to extend the lifecycle of water, turning a waste product into a resource and is fully in line with the circular economy concept that this commission is actively promoting. the objective is to facilitate the uptake of water reuse for agricultural irrigation wherever this is relevant, wherever this is safe and wherever this is cost effective, in order to alleviate water stress whilst preserving the health of consumers and protecting the environment. moreover, the setting of harmonised minimum parameters will facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market for agricultural produce and create new business opportunities for operators and also for technology providers. the european commission thanks the european parliament for their engagement and for the swift progress made in the preparation of their opinion and the european commission looks forward to a fruitful discussion.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the deve committee. madam president, commissioner, the aim of this legislative proposal is to fill a gap in european union legislation. water is our most valuable resource, and it's under pressure, both from human activities and climate change. it is therefore necessary to link waste water treatment and reuse within the framework of the implementation of union policies, such as the circular economy policy. the scope of the initially envisaged water reuse has been extended to other purposes than agriculture. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to remind you that farmers are already obliged to apply the strict rules laid down in the regulation on the general rules for food business operators. this regulation should ensure that farmers receive reclaimed water from water treatment systems and water reuse plants in accordance with the criteria they need to meet for their agricultural needs, in order to be able to guarantee the safety of their agricultural products. the implementation of the regulation in the member states, in addition to bringing numerous benefits, should not lead to additional costs for our farmers.
on behalf of the verts/ale club. madam president, mr vella, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs bonafè for the excellent work she has done on this report. we have worked together to produce a balanced and high-quality report. the deliberate reuse of treated wastewater has an inevitable impact on our environment. by misuse and unplanned use, we can easily jeopardize the water restoration of normal watercourses. i am glad that the report recognises these very challenges. climate impacts are beginning to have a stronger impact on our environment and the increased stress caused by increasing droughts is particularly reflected in agricultural production which can benefit most from the smart use of treated wastewater, especially on our islands. particular attention should be paid to possible unwanted and extremely dangerous contaminations of our soils and agricultural products. and i want to highlight here in particular the problem of microplastics and single-leaf switches that may be in our wastewater system.
written. the issue of good and efficient water management is becoming increasingly important. water is a precious and scarce resource, and increasing global competition for its use brings increasing risks to the economies, communities and ecosystems that depend on it. the increase in demand each year, together with the effects of climate change and the resulting increase in average temperatures, is a wake-up call as the number of areas facing water scarcity could increase. this is why i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on minimum requirements for water reuse, because eu legislation, in particular the water framework directive (2000/60/ec), has developed a plan for the reuse of municipal waste water as additional measures for efficient water management. however, the benefits derived from this activity have not yet been fully exploited due to the lack of clear laws and concrete rules. the total potential for reusing water by 2025 is estimated by the european commission to be around 6,6 billion m3 compared to the current 1,1 billion m3 per year. the commission proposal seeks to achieve those objectives by establishing harmonised rules at union level in order to avoid that different requirements in the member states adversely affect a level playing field and cause obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
the 2019 world watch list will be presented tomorrow in the european parliament. it's a survey by open doors, which lists the 50 countries in the world where christians are most persecuted. syria is 11th on that list. a year earlier, she was 15th. we can't hope that next year will be better than last. although daesh began to withdraw from syria, the anti-christian mentality remained in the area that was the cradle of christianity and where christianity had been held for centuries. we have a responsibility to syria and to the syrian christians. christians in syria say they feel they have no rights and they want us to be their voice. i regret that the commission and the high representative do not recognise this issue as a priority. i therefore call on national governments to provide concrete assistance to persecuted christians through the council and their foreign policy and to ask the commission to protect christians threatened with extinction in the place where christianity was born.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission, commissioner hahn for his great commitment to bosnia and herzegovina; and of course our rapporteur, mr predi. it is true that 2015 was an upward trend for bosnia and herzegovina. it's also true that in 2017, that trend kind of stopped, and i really think that's a bad thing. it's also very bad that four months after the election, all levels of government have not been formed. everything we do for bosnia and herzegovina and everything we do is in the interest of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and that is why reforms must be implemented. but it is also not a matter of concern to the european union, and particularly not to croatia, what our external border looks like and what the situation looks like from our external borders. and that's why we care so much about bosnia and herzegovina going in the right direction. what i want to emphasize here is that we are constantly sending messages to the political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina that they must agree, and especially on the electoral law and today i am obliged to mention it here. so the electoral law has to change and that's something that's the basis of all the reforms and so on. the manipulation of elections, which is obviously taking place, and here i am referring specifically to members of the croatian people and the croatian people, who do not have equal rights in bosnia and herzegovina when it comes to elections, must be avoided. so we're obliged to point that out. i believe that if we could agree on that, things would go a lot better. so the new political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina have a great responsibility and they have a responsibility, and it is up to the commission and us in the european union to help them with that.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course, i would like to thank mr predi for his excellent cooperation and for the excellent report. this is the last report of this parliamentary term and after five years it is an opportunity to assess the actions, or the success of bosnia and herzegovina on this path. so, some small technical steps have been made in advance, the program reform has been passed, the coordination mechanism, the application for membership has been submitted, the first set of questions have been answered. similarly, some sectoral strategies have been adopted, but the fundamental problem of the country, which is its dysfunction and internal conflicts and divisions, mainly along ethnic lines, this problem of bosnia and herzegovina remains and can even be argued, it is a matter of attitude and subjective impression, it can even be argued that the situation today is worse in this sense, in terms of internal relations, the functionality of the state, than it was five years ago. it is certainly a good thing that the european union, all its political bodies, have come out with a clear position on the importance of bosnia and herzegovina, as well as other countries from that area and the need for those countries to join the european union. that's a good thing. the commission is also doing well, although the reports could be more consistent in some ways. often there is a gap between the description and the final grade, there is no hierarchy of objectives. the commission could do a lot better here, but clearly what we have done in the last five years is not enough. it will take even stronger engagement by the commission and much more politically focused action by both the european parliament and the council of the european union for bosnia and herzegovina to take faster steps towards its own stability and towards the european union.
mr president, although since 2015 we have regularly discussed the annual report on bosnia and herzegovina in the european parliament, rather than the progress report, the political reality is that there is no progress at all. in fact, there's been a marked decline in recent times. it is the lack of political, economic and social reforms that is fuelling already bad inter-party relations and institutional blockages. last year was marked by a prolonged election campaign and post-election conflicts, as the elections were held without the electoral law being aligned with the constitutional court's ruling. the parliamentary dimension of cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina unfortunately still does not exist. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of individuals who have been granted the status of 'civil servants' or 'civil servants' in the union. this is necessary in order for bosnia and herzegovina to complete its transition to an effective, inclusive and fully functional state of guaranteed equality and equal rights. unfortunately, this year's document omitted these key elements. i consider this a serious step backwards which is why i cannot support this report.
mr president, the report shows that the union is unfortunately cemented on positions that do not respect reality. it regrets that the election campaign focused on, quote, 'problems of division from the past', which proves that brussels does not understand that the ethnic division in bih is not only a matter of the wartime past, but also of the present and the future. in bosnia, the shared identity is weak and they have a divided reality that will not cease to exist just because some want it so badly. especially not in the current circumstances that the eu helped create. for too long, this beautiful country, where i was born, has been a laboratory for social experiments by the world's powerful! the european union, which is so much about democracy and diversity, allows both to be suppressed in bosnia. the croats have also elected another croatian member of the presidency in this election, while the eu institutions talk about unity. there can be no unity where there is no respect for the basic political rights of a people.
i welcome the agreement reached on sunday by the leaders of the croatian and serbian constituent assemblies in mostar to speed up the formation of a new council of ministers in line with your recommendations and those of high commissioner mogherini that you made after the elections. the leaders of the bosniak constituent community should be encouraged to join this effort to establish a council of ministers because we are facing a very acute crisis in bosnia and herzegovina, especially in the bihac canton where a functional council of ministers is called for and i think it is high time. i am watching with a worrying anxiety the calls of the bosniak leader, mr. komšić and his threats to the republic of croatia. i hope that this will soon end and that the unconstructive way of addressing one neighbouring country and one member of the european union will also soon end. i expect you to give brussels as much help as possible and to finally move from the dayton phase to the brussels phase because dayton has long since broken the law and brussels has not even begun.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr predi for accepting some of my suggestions and incorporating them into the report we are discussing today. but when we talk about the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, it seems that despite all the efforts and recommendations we make, everything remains a dead letter on paper. despite the request of the council and the parliament, the electoral law in bosnia and herzegovina was not changed, which resulted in additional discrimination against croats who, as a constituent people, are not even able to elect their own member of the presidency. it's just a continuation of the systematic discrimination against croats in bosnia and herzegovina that's happening in all segments of their lives. bosnia and herzegovina's place is in the european union. i want that with all my heart. but bosnia and herzegovina must first become a functioning state because the current institutional and legal framework is unsatisfactory and unsustainable and therefore dayton needs to be upgraded and changed. on the other hand, i must pay particular attention to the question of environmental protection. despite the adoption of my amendments calling on bosnia and herzegovina to bring the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod in line with environmental protection standards, there is still no progress and the citizens of slavonski brod are suffering the consequences. we expect bosnia and herzegovina, as a signatory to international environmental conventions, to start complying with their provisions. we are also concerned about the rise in radicalisation and the return of foreign fighters to bosnia and herzegovina, which poses a security challenge to the entire region. i therefore call on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to give a true and uncompromising answer to this burning question.
mr. chairman, bosnia and herzegovina is standing. bosnia and herzegovina is not going forward. their politicians are to blame. i have been following this since 1991, since i have been in politics, i know exactly what is happening in bosnia and herzegovina and, unfortunately, i have to say that the politicians of bosnia and herzegovina have not been able to meet the needs of the people of bosnia and herzegovina. but i'm glad that the religious notables are even more progressive and avant-garde than the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina. paradoxically, in the balkans, but it seems to me that it is and there is little hope. the proportion that mr hahn is investing in the effort to bring bosnia and herzegovina closer to the european union is something to congratulate, but i want to warn you about one problem, the problem of migrants in bosnia and herzegovina, especially in the una-sana canton. we're worried about that because it's on the border with the european union.
mr. chairman, i'd like to welcome the commissioner. what i want to stress is that the security and stability of bosnia and herzegovina is crucial to the security and stability of the entire european union. we cannot speak of political stability when a constituent people cannot elect its representative and participate on an equal footing in the decision-making processes of the institutions of bosnia and herzegovina. the election law needs to be changed. this has, of course, been stressed by other colleagues and that is why i will turn to another area which has perhaps not been sufficiently emphasised, namely our influence in bosnia and herzegovina, namely the participation of the european union in the development programmes and processes of bosnia and herzegovina. let's ask how many projects we have financed with the guarantee of the european fund for strategic investments in bosnia and herzegovina: zero. how well did we use the ipu, is it 100% contractual, have we tried to develop some other, additional projects that will help the country in integration? what have we done about collective decision-making, about organizing conferences? i think we can do a lot more.
mr president, welcome to the presidency of the council of ministers. i hope you can hear me. thank you for coming here. it was a surprise to hear from you, and i have to say a positive surprise. but as they say in istria, "a jackal does not fry", so i also wait for the facts. i would like to say, as rapporteur for the adriatic-ionian macro-strategy, that we need good cooperation on the adriatic. i am interested in your views on relations with slovenia and croatia and on the future of cooperation in the adriatic. it is also important to me how you see the enlargement of the european union. i am also interested in whether your government wants to cut funding for the italian minority in istria, for bilingualism in istria, which i have done with my colleagues. i am interested in what you want to do with bilingualism in slovenia and croatia, because we also need the italian union's funding in slovenia and croatia. and finally, i am interested in whether you can imagine a recovery of a village that could be dedicated to the exiles and also to the peoples of europe. i'm interested in knowing if you want to be a part of this symbol.
mr president, discrimination against women and the systematic denial of their full potential is something we must fight against, always and everywhere. i've been a victim of gender discrimination myself, so i know what it's like. in this sense, the social climate must be permanently changed and be encouraging for women to develop in any area they want. some social groups have problems with this and we need to send them a clear message that they are free to choose the way they want to live their lives, but not to impose their choice on others. it's not just the ultra-traditionalists, but also the feminists who also have little respect for women who live differently. we also have to say that i don't see the growing awareness of the right to life as a regression in human rights. unborn children are the most vulnerable group, unique in that they cannot fight for their rights on their own. this fact does not give us the right to ignore them but, rather, requires that we take special care of them.
mr president, the promotion of women's rights and gender equality is a fundamental right of the european union and i would agree with all those who say that there is a backsliding in certain women's rights. it's true that populist and extremist trends contribute to this, as does the hate speech that is evident in many of our societies. i also agree with those who say that a democratic society is strong enough and developed if women's rights are strong enough and developed. and so i agree with the statement that came from the left: "let's not allow our daughters to have fewer rights than our mothers did", no matter what anyone meant by that. violence against women is a pervasive problem in our society today, and we're not doing enough to eradicate it. despite the fact that in some countries the convention on women's rights, on combating violence against women, has been ratified, violence still exists. we should keep fighting. i think that's the biggest problem in today's society, we've brought a lot of documents, and we still don't have equality in the real sense of the word on the ground.
mr president, the fact is that even today, in europe, we have not established gender equality and ensured equal opportunities for women. progress has not been made in creating institutional and policy frameworks for equality such as social and labour protection, education, health care, prevention of violence against women and this is where we need to work. women today are discriminated against in many ways and forced to choose between career and family, instead of making it easier for them to have both. this is a real problem that requires a real solution, and this report does not offer answers to these overriding questions. i cannot agree with the definitions of regression and progress as seen and proposed by the rapporteur. real women should not be subject to redefinition by time or ideology, quite the opposite - they are timeless and therefore belong to all women. as a person who is committed to the protection of every life and human dignity and to respect for the principle of subsidiarity, i am disappointed by the contents of this report and cannot support it.
member of the commission. – madam president, there were three very comprehensive questions, so, if you will allow me, i will take a bit more than three minutes because i need to address all the very sensitive questions. let me begin by thanking this house and especially ms daniela aiuto for raising this crucial issue of women’s cancer on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. when it comes to cancer, the statistics are startling. it is europe’s second leading cause of death. in 2015, cancer cut short the lives of more than 580 000 women, and it is increasing in prominence; almost four million new cases are expected this year alone. but this disease is not only about statistics. cancer damages our families, communities and economies and our healthcare and cure systems, and so on. since the first europe against cancer programme in 1980, science, research and public policies have led to new initiatives, more effective prevention and promotion schemes and improved screening, treatment and care. i am proud of what we have achieved together to fight cancer. legislation on tobacco and on carcinogens, the european code against cancer and the implementation of national cancer plans are a few examples of concrete achievements. i am now going to outline other examples as a reply to your specific questions. question no 1, about preparing a strategy at eu level. let me stress that the commission and the member states are already collaborating to strengthen national cancer plans and ensure that patients, including women, benefit from high quality programmes. this will encompass all aspects of the cancer management cycle from fighting against the main carcinogenic risk factors that cause cancer to early prevention and early detection of cancer, survivorship and rehabilitation, and concrete cancer types. this is in line with the 2017 european guide on quality improvement in comprehensive cancer control, which includes recommendations on screening, integrated cancer care, quality improvement in aftercare at community level and survivorship and rehabilitation. at the same time the joint research centre provides evidence-based european guidelines for breast cancer, covering the entire pathway of care and the latest information indicators quantifying the cancer burden across europe. these data are enabled by the european cancer information system, which allows the use of patterns of incidence, mortality and survival. in addition, the commission is supporting member states’ efforts on vaccination, including against the hepatitis b virus and the human papillomavirus that causes liver and cervical cancer in women, and i ask you all to be very active in fighting against vaccine hesitancy because it is about prevention of cancer. i should emphasise that since the adoption of a council recommendation on cancer screening, we have seen a continuous improvement in national screening programmes for breast and cervical cancer. twenty-five eu countries now have population-based programmes for breast cancer and 22 for cervical cancer. of course it would be good to have all member states together but it is much more than when we started with 18 and 17 countries 10 years ago. over the past decade the eu’s average proportion of women targeted for breast cancer increased from 54% to 58% – as always, prevention is a very difficult task, to motivate people to follow a prevention idea – and screening for cervical cancer rose from 54% to 60%. this has a concrete impact on breast and cervical survival rates and reflects both early detection and effectiveness of treatment. second point, does the commission plan to prepare standards for cancer screening programmes, and so on? i would like to recall that the european commission initiative on breast cancer provides the european breast guidelines, which cover the entire breast-cancer cycle from screening to end-of-life care, and they are tailored to the needs of the different users. in addition, the european guidelines for quality assurance in cervical cancer screening have been updated also, but guidelines, recommendations and best practices need to be translated into practice through implementation of concrete solutions in member states and we are doing a lot to encourage member states to really provide on the ground those programmes in regard to implementation. this will drive change and improvement on the ground. in this context a new steering group on health promotion, disease prevention and management of non-communicable diseases bridges those gaps between knowledge and funding in a practical way, advising member states with concrete examples of what they can do, because we have only one tool, once again to cooperate. it advises the commission about evidence-based best practices in member states that can be transferred, scaled up and implemented more broadly with support from the eu health programme and as an eu financial instrument. the new framework programme for research, horizon europe, is introducing the concept of mission driving initiatives in research – it just proposed it – and cancer in, for example, children, girls, and so on could be considered. the third question is: will the commission and member states plan a cancer-prevention awareness campaign? a very good question! a timely question! let me assure you that prevention is the cornerstone of our efforts. we know very well that prevention is better than cure, but how can we disseminate that message to the public? the commission continues to work with the member states and the world health organisation, including the international agency for research on cancer, and with non-governmental organisations in order regularly to update, and to promote implementation of, the european code against cancer. this code is a very powerful tool: simple, understandable and powerful. the code contains 12 messages to reduce the risk of cancer, highlighting areas like tobacco use, exercise, diet, alcohol intake, nutritional issues, and so on, in a very simple way but using very strong messages. in addition, the code recommends taking part in organised cancer screening programmes, including for breast and cervical cancers, and urges people to vaccinate children against hepatitis b and the human papillomavirus. such initiatives providing information in a citizen-friendly, easily understandable way are essential to get the message across on how cancer risk can be reduced. but i encourage member states to do more in the spirit of cooperation, such as organising cancer awareness campaigns about available screening programmes and in public spaces. i saw an excellent example when i used to take the plane from brussels to poland a lot: i saw a stewardess who informed women on the plane, telling them about the possibilities for using breast-cancer screening. it was an excellent example of cooperation. let’s do more. and, of course, in the context of the european elections, this topic should be kept very high on the political agenda and in public debate. we have achieved progress but we must continue to do more in the field of cancer. we need to research and be innovative, and to improve treatment, care and quality of life for cancer patients. we must continue to prevent cancer by promoting positive lifestyle choices – a healthy choice, an easy choice – this is also a cornerstone and it is part of an integrated approach to fighting cancer. finally, i want to take this opportunity to welcome the meps against cancer election manifesto, in particular its focus on prevention, and i look forward to working with you to prevent and control cancer, including in women.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, commissioner, is it not a frightening fact that a quarter of deaths in the european union are caused by cancer? according to a study by the university of washington, croatia, the youngest member of the european union, is among the 10 countries with the highest cancer mortality rates in the world, along with hungary. according to the world cancer research fund, in 2018, more than 2 million new cases of breast cancer were reported, making it the most common cancer in women and the second most common cancer overall. according to the same study, belgium is the country with the highest incidence of breast cancer in women, followed by luxembourg and the netherlands. it doesn't choose gender, age, nationality, origin, social status, we are all equally exposed. it is therefore vital that the campaign of education reaches everyone. it is important that preventive checks are made available to all, including those living in rural areas. it's important to ensure that all patients are treated without exception. it is equally important to educate and support the families of those who have the disease. we need to insist on research and the creation of strategies based on the specific needs of women and men. this is a joint fight. cooperation at european level is key to developing a european strategy to fight cancer, with european funds at its disposal. however, it should be borne in mind that the member states have competence over the health system.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent resolution and for opening up an important subject that we need to talk about. in europe, 1.3 million people die of cancer every year, more than a quarter of all deaths. on the other hand, for some cancers, like breast cancer, the survival rate is 80 percent, but with the crucial condition of early detection. we need to establish better screening and testing systems for all cancers, and better and more affordable health care for all patients. every woman should have universal and equal access to health services, in particular screening for early detection of cancer, treatment and free and high-quality post-treatment support, regardless of place of residence, social status, occupation, culture or any other factor. women who survive cancer may face special difficulties in returning to work, education, or family life. maintaining reproductive health during therapy is particularly problematic. cancer is a very worrying disease, and much more can be done to save lives by combining resources, knowledge and existing technologies. in my amendments, i emphasized that we must invest in research into all types of cancer. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. i call on the commission to act, in particular with regard to the incidence and mortality of ovarian and cervical cancer. there is also a need to promote healthier lifestyles. people with dementia need to be provided with quality care, but they also need support for their families. the member states should establish quality treatment centres that can be financed from the structural and cohesion funds. the great promises that europe will be the one to find the most effective way to treat cancer must be accompanied by adequate resources, and not remain a list of wishes.
madam chairman, this is an overwhelming subject and i'm sorry we're discussing it at this late hour. there is a real cancer epidemic going on all over the world, especially in the european union. we have heard various statistics in support of this thesis and it is important to note and recall that here in this parliament our group, the members of parliament against cancer, is active, led by mr peterle and in which many of us have been involved and it is precisely the fruit of our work that this manifesto of which you spoke, mr commissioner. i think that this manifesto is important for the fight against cancer and we definitely need to have a uniform european solution. people living in western countries don't have the same access as those living in eastern european countries, and i think that's one of our battles, the fight for equality. so equality of access to treatment. some people can access smart drugs, some people can't. so, not everywhere is equal access and that's what we need to level out and that's why i thank you for this report today.
the reporter. madam president, in the past year, much of my work in parliament has focused in particular on public health, the fight against cancer, public awareness raising and access to medical services and medicines. tonight we are presenting a resolution of the european parliament and an oral question on the use of cannabis for medical purposes. we have had a lot of discussion on this topic in the envi committee, and in drafting this resolution we wanted to focus on supporting high-quality research into cannabis-based medicines, as well as on differentiating between cannabis-based medicines that have passed clinical trials and are regulated and medical cannabis itself. the term is largely undefined from a legal point of view and therefore i believe it remains vague and open to interpretation. in addition, an important aspect of this resolution was to make a strict distinction between the use of cannabis for medical purposes and its misuse. the european union countries differ widely in their approach to cannabis regulation, including legislation on cannabis for medical purposes, for example on maximum levels of thc and cbd concentrations. even in those member states where medical cannabis is legal, the conditions for access, prescription, purchase, pricing, reimbursement, and the level of knowledge of healthcare professionals on the use of such medicines vary widely and pose problems for patients. therefore, in an oral question, we asked the commission to explain what it has done to support quality research, what it plans to do with regard to future research, how much funding it plans to allocate to research in this area under the ninth framework programme horizon europe, and whether the commission considers that the regulatory environment in the european union supports quality research on medical cannabis. also, does the commission consider that access to medical cannabis for patients should be improved? the commission also intends to establish standards for non-pharmaceutical medical cannabis to ensure the safety of users. in the resolution, we called on the commission and national authorities to work together to ensure a legal definition of medical cannabis and to make a clear distinction between cannabis-based medicines approved by the european medicines agency or other regulatory agencies, medical cannabis not supported by clinical trials, and cannabis for other uses. as we know, the cannabis plant is composed of a number of cannabinoids that can have neuroprotective effects, can help reduce some symptoms in patients such as inflammation or bacterial infections, and can also promote bone growth. the commission has also identified a number of potential barriers to the use of cannabis in the eu, including the possibility of restricting access to cannabis products for medical purposes, the possibility of restricting the use of cannabis products for medical purposes, and the possibility of restricting access to cannabis products for medical purposes. it is important to emphasise that a review of the existing scientific literature on the use of cannabis provides convincing and satisfactory evidence that it has therapeutic effects in the treatment of chronic pain in adults, for example in the case of cancer, as discussed in the previous point, as well as in the case of epilepsy, alzheimer's disease, arthritis, asthma, crohn's disease, glaucoma, as well as spastic symptoms reported by patients with multiple sclerosis, and is effective in the treatment of patients with anxiety disorders, ptsd and depression. i don't want to go too far with this topic, so i'll conclude here that the work of european institutions and agencies to raise awareness of the importance of research and legal definition of this medical cannabis is of the utmost importance and can only help patients who really need these medicines, of course, with strict regulations and thorough analysis. it's up to us as politicians, public figures, professors, activists to unite in the fight to improve health in every way. in any case, i just want to emphasize that we want to strictly separate the use of cannabis for medical purposes from that used for recreational purposes and it is very important to emphasize this so that any abuse of this desire of ours is eliminated.
your honor, the actions of a chinese researcher who claims to have designed gmo babies deserve every condemnation. it is also contrary to the ethics of science, which should have a noble purpose and be in the service of man. the genome modification of human embryonic cells is a first-rate ethical issue, and it is up to us, as legislators, to set boundaries and create laws that will make the ethically unacceptable impossible and thus ensure that science does not override ethics. science does indeed enable us to better understand and explore both the world around us and man himself. while scientific research can contribute in a noble way to the cure of various diseases, it is important to keep in mind that not everything that is scientifically possible and attainable is ethically acceptable. the alteration of the genome of human embryos and gametes is certainly unacceptable also because the introduced changes in the genome will be hereditary and transmitted to future generations. people can't be made to order. the european union must clearly back a global ban on the modification of human embryonic cells and make it a standard that scientists around the world will respect.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the econ committee. madam president, commissioner, i am glad that we all agreed today that it is very important to increase the funds for cohesion policy, as mr mureşan said before the committee on budgets, that it is also very important to increase co-financing, that it is important to simplify the implementation procedures and that it is important to say 'no' to the slowdown in programming. what is important from the econ perspective is that the european funds are an important source of funding, but they cannot deliver results unless they are part of the overall policy in the member states on reforms that will improve business conditions, speed up decision-making processes, speed up judgments and the efficiency of the judiciary, the efficiency and functioning of public administration and local self-government. without it we cannot have real and genuine results in practice, which are economic growth, development and improvement of the living standards of our people. that's what we've been fighting for.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of the ecr club, i have been involved in the preparation of this important legislative proposal and i can say that i am satisfied with the work done. i thank the rapporteurs and the other shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and congratulate them on a quality final text which i am sure will be adopted. i am particularly pleased that, through the amendment, i have been able to add important clauses to the final text for the less developed member states, which are still very much dependent on cohesion policy. i would particularly like to highlight the higher rate of eu project pre-financing, the greater flexibility and the retention of the n+3 rule. the n+3 rule is particularly important as it allows for a longer absorption period of resources to be fully used where they are most needed. when making decisions of this magnitude, we need to consider the context. there are still large differences in development between member states, and within each of them we have inequalities between different regions. this has always been the case and will continue to be the case because we are not all the same, nor have we all followed the same path of development, but it is our responsibility to mitigate these differences so that the union can develop equally. the cohesion policy is extremely valuable in this respect and we must work to strengthen it, taking care that the conditions for application, especially for centrally managed funds, are adapted to those who need it most. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. brexit creates a financial hole that will not be easy to plug, but solidarity is not something to be spared. it is one of the core values of this community and without it, membership of the union for the less developed countries becomes much less attractive.
i am also partly sceptical about the need to pool funds, but of course i support this report because the fact is that we are planning to fight climate change, the fact is that we want a more social europe, the fact is that we want more investment in the environment and, of course, we want more jobs. all these are very important elements for which this report should be supported. however, i want to emphasise something that is actually most important to me, and that is the continuation of the strong cohesion policy of the european union. that is why the european union is the most recognisable, that is why it is best understood by the citizens and i have to express great satisfaction here and i want to convey to you the happiness and satisfaction of the people who got the sword ten days ago, because valkarin got the sword, the asphalt came, paid for 100% by european union funds. the satisfaction and happiness of these people must be repeated, and that is why i want to keep cohesion policy as a european union policy.
mr president, as rapporteur for the econ opinion on the future of the european union, i have stressed the importance of completing the banking union and the capital markets union, in particular because of the need to open up favourable sources of finance to start-ups and smes, particularly in less developed member states where sources of finance are still much more expensive than in the developed ones, which prevents them from increasing their competitiveness, which is essential for high-quality participation in the single market. i have particularly called for increased funding to non-euro area member states that need to raise productivity, competitiveness, create quality and well-paid jobs, because a strong economy and improved living standards for people in those member states are the best preparation for euro area membership.
mr. chairman, in this house we often discuss fair taxation. i would say that's because it's hard to reach consensus on what would be fair in the context of taxation. some feel that the wealthy should cover virtually all the tax revenue of the state, while others feel that it is necessary to reduce the tax burden so that those with more money can invest in good projects and create new jobs. it is important to strike a balance and tax only what is necessary to raise enough funds for quality public services, without jeopardising the prosperity of the taxpayers themselves. to do so, the public sector must be brought to a reasonable level and public spending kept under control. the government can always spend more and never have enough. the public sector's growth is usually accompanied by an increase in inefficiency, so public service provision should be carried out in partnership with the private sector. this leaves enough room to introduce a rate that will not suffocate taxpayers or force them to avoid paying taxes. i think that's the right way to fair taxation.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, reform of the hta system is one of the main demands of the access to medicines report we adopted in 2016. i am pleased that the commission, despite negative signals from some member states, has recognised the potential of an extended and reformed hta system. the benefits of closer cooperation between national and regional hta bodies will ultimately be shared by all: patients, pharmacists, doctors and health systems. the new platform will save time and money for member states and their authorities by avoiding unnecessary duplication of assessments already made by other countries. this is especially true for countries with low hta capacities. unfortunately, these arguments were not sufficient for the member states in the council. when health and wellness are at stake, time is not money, but life, and that is why i must express my displeasure at the council's refusal to enter into negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, on behalf of the ppe group, i object to this oral amendment.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, after last year's attack on a peaceful gathering of the iranian opposition in paris, the trail of terrorist acts led to belgium, then to france, then to denmark. of course, these are undercover diplomats who are actually members of the iranian intelligence services, and recently this intensity of their activity could be particularly noticeable in albania because there is a part of the iranian opposition there. we talk about terrorism, but we can also talk about the behavior, the undemocratic behavior of the iranian authorities towards protesters, the attacks on protesters, the reduction of media freedom, the internet, the closure. and finally, iran is the world champion of executions. the european union should therefore be more stringent in its attitude towards those who are potential perpetrators of terrorist acts, as well as towards iran in general.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, i would like to ask you, do you know that brussels and strasbourg, the two cities where we live and work, are among the most polluted? let's start with the parliament building in brussels and put the measuring units and the displays for those measuring units here. we should start on our own, because when i see these joggers and cyclists in brussels running and breathing this air, i feel sorry for them. i think it would be good if we had the first real, clear measuring stations in brussels and strasbourg, where we work and live. i used to do this and labin in istria has a measuring station, and it's on the municipal building, precisely so that citizens know what air they have around them. let's start with the european parliament, the european parliament buildings in brussels and strasbourg. i'll add two more problems. pollution across borders. in croatia we have specific cross-border pollution from bosnia and herzegovina. the slavonian boat is often so polluted that people simply do not go out into the street. let's do something about it. agriculture, i agree, is an additional problem. let's motivate biodynamic farming, let's motivate organic farming and there will be less problems.
mr president, commissioner, i thank my colleagues for raising this issue of clean air and i also welcome the commission communication 'clean air for all'. the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one. emissions from buildings for heating and cooling, emissions from power plants, emissions from industry are also very high. i think they should also be asked this question, or demanded an answer. i think they're going to have to change the directive at the very least to align it with the new energy laws that we passed this year and at the very least in terms of measuring reporting on air pollution. i would like to draw attention to a particular problem facing the western balkans. the cities of sarajevo and skopje are the most polluted cities, not in europe, but in the world, at certain times of the year. there are 16 coal-fired power plants with obsolete technologies, and new ones are being planned, also with obsolete technologies. this, of course, affects the health of the people who live there, but also the health of citizens in neighbouring eu member states. therefore, high standards should be respected, but also help these countries to meet high air quality standards themselves.
mr president, the union was conceived and has long functioned as a security area, but in the circumstances of the financial and migration crises it has proved incapable of protecting citizens from internal and external threats. it was often spared the wrong things and under the umbrella of human rights it allowed various criminals, extremists and terrorists to spread their octopus branches across europe. there was a lack of reaction, usually when innocent people and their property were already being harmed. today, we face a new great challenge, and that is the return of isil fighters to their european homelands after the so-called caliphate lost most of its territory. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the application of articles 10 and 11 of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. i believe in national institutions, our security professionals and their cooperation and i hope that politics and political correctness will not stand in the way of protecting europe's citizens from harm.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs. young people often ask about volunteer opportunities. they want to use their free time to contribute to society and help people in need, whether it's natural disasters like fires, floods or earthquakes that we've unfortunately faced, especially in recent years, or other different humanitarian activities. i'm pleased that in the 2021-2027 budget, we're increasing the funding for this program from the current 376 million euros to 1.3 billion euros, which is more than three times. what's important is that participating in the program has to be simple. that is why i have proposed a simplified costing method for those who participate, and that participants be reimbursed for all costs associated with volunteering. it's important that the participants are young, of course, which we've talked about, but especially that the program is open and accessible to young people who are not employed, not in education, not in training.
mr president, the latest survey of farmers and agricultural cooperatives, carried out on the basis of a broader definition of unfair trading practices, has shown that the damage caused by unfair trading practices is estimated at more than eur 10 billion per year at european level. unfair commercial practices are cited by youths as one of the main obstacles to farming. if this problem is not addressed soon, the future of agriculture and the food supply will be in question. farmers already work in the sector with the lowest average incomes in the european union and do not feel safe. in addition, suppliers and buyers, as the stronger ones in the whole food supply chain, pass on the various risks of their business to farmers as the weaker ones in that chain, whether it be long payment deadlines, delivery, storage and sales conditions, which farmers cannot influence themselves. i therefore welcome the swift agreement reached in the trilogue on this legislative proposal and consider it a victory for the small over the big, which should make life easier for farmers in the european single market.
the prime minister of the slovak republic. mr president, allow me to respond to some of those speeches, as i do not have the capacity to be able to respond to the conclusion completely to all of them. i'll get to the farm subsidies. i fully agree with what the honourable member said about controlling these funds and, of course, preventing any fraud. but i want to ask all of you here in the european parliament what kind of system is it if, under the brussels regulation, we allocate subsidies on the basis of the hectares farmed, regardless of whether someone does something about it or only mows the grass twice a year. how is it possible that we are forced to pay some amount of european money to an area and not have the possibility to cut this money to those who do nothing on that land, do not employ anyone, do not produce anything, do not grow anything, do not provide anything or do not contribute to the self-sufficiency of slovakia or europe. how is this possible? then it becomes not a real system of agricultural support, but a battle for subsidies, that is, a war over who will have on paper how many hectares, mow twice a year, sit at home and collect subsidies. this is wrong and we must change it so that we do not use european money to support those who do nothing on european soil and only make double the money. they can do this without needing eu funding. secondly, madam member of the romanian parliament: slovakia has always clearly supported and will continue to support the fact that if a country meets any conditions, that is to say in this case the conditions for accession to schengen, it is important that it gets a clear answer, so that romania and bulgaria do not play a political game, but if they are technically ready, then we should of course be absolutely clear about when and on what date bulgaria and romania will enter schengen, even in view of the situation we face when it is necessary to protect the external borders of the european union. i don't know what we're playing at, or what the political games are. and the union should also, i would say, be fair to the countries of the western balkans, because we cannot keep saying to them: 'do this reform, change that, open this chapter, i don't know what kind of nonsense...' painful things these countries have to do. and how long will these countries tolerate us and how long will citizens be able and willing to make such reforms when they don't see the light at the end of the tunnel, and we're not able to respond to them, when can they become part of this, what we call, elite club. this is precisely where the union is wrong and where it is not sending the right ideas where they should be. so i wanted to comment on those two things.
the prime minister of the slovak republic. i'm sorry, colleague, but i have to respond to you immediately. because i will not tolerate, even though i am on the floor of the european parliament, that any member of the european parliament speaks such untruths and lies. if you mentioned mr. fisherman and you want to create the impression that he was murdered for land and so on, then i will bring to your attention the statement of his own son who said that mr. fisherman is abused by those who organize the protests, that these people did not know him in life, never met him, that his father had problems a long time ago and for several months he was suffering from some other things, and that he does not want anyone to link his death, which is properly investigated and which shows that it was completely different from what you said, that he does not want his father to be drawn into such political games. so i ask you, mr president, not to draw conclusions and not to say something about the slovak republic that is not true at all, because i would never do that and i would never do that in relation to the czech republic, although you have your own problems there too. so i ask you to be correct, because only then can we have a responsible debate. i did. if you're talking about farm subsidies, i just said so. we need a change so that we do not support those who have land on paper, do nothing on it, do not contribute to the self-sufficiency of the european union and receive the same share of european money as those who shovel and work there from morning to night. and if mrs smolková asked me about nord stream 2: yes, there was a lot of talk here about how we must and should help ukraine. but this is an excellent case of how we can hurt her. the slovak republic has fulfilled its role and made technical changes to reverse the flow and to this day, even this winter, we supply ukraine through our transit pipeline towards ukraine in order to guarantee their energy security. but there are countries that are able to sell this idea of taking care of ukraine in business and are willing to tolerate a bypass that, once it's in place, will be able to bypass all of ukraine with gas. and i am very sorry that the recent allocation of agencies, which you mentioned, madam president, - there were two - and which everyone made clear should end in one of the new countries of the european union and should end in one where there is no agency yet, both ended in the old country, the member state of the union, and both ended in countries where there are already agencies. and then it's hard to talk about stopping the divisions between old and new, between east and west, between rich and poor, when even in these kinds of speeches, we're sending a clear signal of what's really going on. and what can citizens living in the other part of the european union think about it? i'm sorry, but i will always be very open with you and very direct in answering the questions you ask.
mr. president, mr. prime minister pellegrini, thank you for your contribution to this important debate on the future of europe. i am glad that your slovakia is doing well. as you yourself have said, it has not always been easy and the road has not been easy, but slovakia is today in every respect a more advanced country than it was when it became independent. taking responsibility for their own destiny has brought prosperity and a better quality of life to slovak citizens. isn't that proof that independence was the right path for your country? but now you advocate further political integration and want to leave decisions about the fate of the slovaks to the bigger and stronger ones. it's basically the story of "more europe". behind the facade of solidarity, common values, brotherhood and unity lies a new process of making most political decisions at the european level in which smaller countries like your slovakia and my croatia have a weaker ability to protect their interests. the concentration of political power in brussels can never be in the interest of zagreb, nor of bratislava.
madam president, in this house we hear every day the great plans for europe, further political integration, new common institutions, a large budget for ambitious programmes, a european army, the united states of europe and so on. great ideas, and in practice it looks like this: even in the third session of the european parliament, in whose work croatian representatives will participate, our croatian language will not be fully applied in the work of this institution. the extension of rule 159 of the rules of procedure means a further delay in the full application of croatian, irish and maltese, with the explanation that there will be no capacity to provide a full translation service even at the beginning of the next parliamentary session. so how many centuries exactly would it take to ensure that capacity? unlike ireland and malta, the republic of croatia has one official language, croatian, so by this decision croats, with the silence of the croatian government, continue to remain second-class citizens in the european union. ladies and gentlemen, let us now see how truly united in diversity we are in this parliament.
mr president, human rights have been violated and are still being violated by a number of third countries with whom we have diplomatic and trade relations, some of our allies, as well as some member states. although european leaders often speak of the european union as a 'community of values', i must admit that human rights have often been traded. certain sanctions for systematic violations of human rights within the union must exist because they constitute a clear breach of the treaty. that is why we have the court of justice of the european union and that is why we do not need new mechanisms. i fear that they would be used to discipline member states which do not share the same vision of the union as brussels, while others who share the federalist vision would be looked down upon as they have been up to now. as regards third countries, on the other hand, we have yet to develop effective mechanisms that would be linked to our trade and other agreements with those countries.
mr. chairman, the cambridge analytica scandal clearly confirms the extent of outside influence on elections and referendums. as we await news from london, let us remember all the false information passed on without sanctions to the citizens of britain that significantly influenced the outcome of brexit. as regards the upcoming european elections, russian influence through various media channels and social networks, which reaches the european parliament, should not be overlooked. this is certainly not an agenda for a stronger european union, quite the opposite. we also emphasise the impact of hybrid warfare on our western balkan neighbourhood involved in the european integration processes. there's also a possible coup attempt. but russia is not the only source of this kind of activity. false propaganda comes from both the west and the middle east. they all have a similar operational function and the same objective the weakening of european democratic institutions. i support this report and the measures proposed. in the run-up to the european elections, it is crucial to ensure that citizens make informed decisions, because the future of the european project depends on their decisions.
mr president, i am in any case concerned about the disinformation that has been circulating in the european union lately, coming from third countries. we should definitely be concerned. i therefore fully support this report which makes sure that we are coordinating our efforts to combat such disinformation. i understand that the fight needs to be on a national level, but given that the internet has a cross-border dimension, i'm sure we need to share best practices and negotiate. i also support this view that russian propaganda is very important, very negative, and that it definitely influenced the referendum in the uk. and today we are suffering the consequences of that referendum, not just us but, i believe, the british people, whatever they may think about it. in any case, a strong fight against disinformation and the prevention of interference by third parties in the electoral process is needed, especially in view of the forthcoming elections to the european parliament.
mr. chairman, hybrid warfare is nothing new, but the rapid development of information technology has opened up new channels and today it's easier than ever for propaganda to reach people. on the other hand, citizens' trust in institutions is at a historic low, which leaves a lot of room for manoeuvre for those who want to influence democratic processes and public opinion in europe. i can only support the recommendations made in this report. i think it is worth pointing out, though it should be clear in a developed democracy, that there is also justified criticism of the european union, its leadership and individual member states, and that not all criticism is hostile action. i emphasize this because for some time now the leadership of the union has tried to attribute any criticism to external and internal enemies, instead of listening to the citizens and making changes in line with their demands.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it was a pleasure to be a shadow rapporteur on this report. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, for his guidance, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. an important aspect of the report is the recognition of the territorial dimensions of these states and its implications. together with my colleagues, i proposed measures to adopt an institutional framework that will help the three neighbouring countries to implement the future association agreements in an effective and efficient way. parliament undoubtedly needs to encourage these association agreements with andorra, monaco and san marino. all three countries are surrounded by eu member states and clearly share our history and cultural values. the three states have each, in their own right, pursued important reforms and regulatory alignment with the european union, in particular regarding the regulation of banking and finance. these great efforts deserve our appraisal. with the adoption of this report we call for the rapid conclusion of the negotiations on a comprehensive agreement in order to build on our long-standing relations with our neighbours.
written. statistics show that around 90% of europeans live in cities exposed to levels of air pollution considered harmful to human health. the world health organisation and the european environment agency (eea) estimate that about 400 000 premature deaths attributable to air pollution occur in the eu every year. i believe that this is an alarming piece of information that we need to pay attention to and act on as effectively as possible. that is why i have supported this document, which calls on the european commission to tighten controls and calls on member states to prioritise the implementation of coordinated actions and policies at all levels and across all sectors to improve air quality in cities and urban areas, with the ultimate aim of halting premature death and disease caused by exposure to air pollutants. currently, 29 infringement procedures are underway in 20 member states for breaches of eu air quality limit values. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the implementation of this regulation. 5. air pollution has a local, regional, national and cross-border dimension and requires action by all levels of governance, which i strongly believe will be improved because we have no other alternatives.
madam speaker, brexit has turned into complete chaos because neither side has acted in good faith or wanted to truly honour what the people voted for. brussels saw this as an opportunity to send a message to the rest of us that there is no stability or prosperity outside the european union, and london's wishes were largely articulated by politicians who personally did not want to leave, so through these negotiations they tried to achieve the impossible of taking britain out, but keeping it in. the complicated political situation in both britain and the rest of europe made things even more difficult and this very complex process, which both sides have been complicating from day one, could not be properly concluded. now we're probably gonna be looking at a finger-pointing contest and a blame game, but blame is on both sides. there's no use in regretting the milk that's been spilled. we should prepare for the future. a future where, i believe, we can work together on key issues and trade without barriers to mutual benefit.
madam president, it is clear that the debate on the preparations for the european council has turned into a debate on brexit. we are not talking today about the paris agreement, we are not talking about green technologies, we are not talking about european industry, the european economy, unemployment, or the disinformation that is pressing us from all sides in the wake of the european elections. unfortunately, today's debate has turned into a brexit debate. clearly, brexit is one of the most important issues. i would be glad if those in westminster would pay attention to us here in the european parliament today and hear what we are saying. they are expected to make a reasoned decision, they are expected to hold british politicians accountable. my personal opinion is with those who spoke today about a second referendum, i think there is still room for a second referendum, i think there is still room for the united kingdom to remain in the european union, because i think britain belongs in the european union and i am sorry that there was such a populist expression in the referendum. i believe that this can still change and that british politicians will be responsible enough to understand the moment they are in and not to work against the younger generation, against young people in particular, as we heard from mrs girling, who are in favour of remaining in the european union and i join all those who are in favour of a second referendum.
madam president, the united states is our principal global partner and in that sense it is logical to expect a long-term mutual commitment to facilitate and increase trade. i am pleased that a new chapter in trade relations is opening up relatively quickly after the collapse of the ttip negotiations. i hope that this time we will not repeat the mistakes of the past and that the new agreement will cover all industries and that we will not be enslaved by vain attempts to harmonize production standards but will open the way to mutual recognition of existing standards with a specific label on products. i also hope that our negotiators will not bring to the table european prejudices about president trump and his administration. if we use these negotiations to send political messages about the trump administration instead of focusing on business, we're sure to fail. the question then is whether, and when, there will be a third attempt. so let's be smart about this.
madam president, the triangle of investment, structural reform and sound public finance management is, in theory, perfectly clear. of course, there is more work to be done on implementation, and that is why in the new budget we are trying to strengthen the reform support programme, we are also tripling the european fund for strategic investments, we are increasing investment in digitalisation and we are strengthening the single market, removing barriers and creating a union of equal opportunities. i am of course in favour of all this, but i am opposed to the commission's proposals that the main criterion for allocating these increased resources should be population. this allocation of resources makes us lose sight of the main objective of reducing the disparities in the level of development of the member states. the less developed member states, which are the most frequently and most affected by demographic challenges, which are manifested by ageing populations and by large-scale migration, need to be given additional help, rather than cutting esi funds or allocations from structural reform support programmes.
mr president, at the very beginning of this report, it is stated that the introduction of the euro is one of the most important political achievements of the european project. how to whom. maybe we should ask the greeks or the italians? it is true, however, that the euro has been a useful political project in itself, because it has further centralised europe and reduced the room for manoeuvre for the member states. the same will happen with the creation of the european monetary fund, which is another step towards integration. the creation of the european financial stability facility and its transformation into the european stability mechanism were logical steps in the context of the terrible financial crisis and the need to stabilise and make the euro area more resilient. the initiative to establish the european monetary fund actually seeks to make crisis mechanisms permanent and to strengthen the role of supranational structures in the monitoring and management of financial assistance programmes in the future. there's really no need for that.
written. in view of previous resolutions on iran, in particular the december 2018 nasrin sotoudeh case and the may 2018 eu-iranian citizens in detention, there is a need to react swiftly with a view to the unconditional release of innocent people who stood up in defence of democracy in iran. the resolution concerns human rights defenders, including nasrin sotoudeh, reza khandana and women's rights activist farhad meysami, and all prisoners detained and sentenced for exercising the right to freedom of expression and peaceful protest for human rights and the abolition of the death penalty. furthermore, the iranian authorities are expected to amend article 48 of the country's code of criminal procedure to allow all detainees access to a lawyer of their choice throughout the judicial process in order to ensure a transparent and fair trial. we also call on iran to stop criminalizing and baselessly accusing women who are activists for promoting women's rights and who peacefully protest against the compulsory wearing of the hijab. the iranian authorities must ensure the unhindered activities of human rights defenders without threats or intimidation. it is unacceptable that human rights defenders, journalists and other activists who promote personal and political freedom through democratic instruments, i.e. peaceful protests, face harassment, unfounded arrests and detention.
member of the commission. – mr president, fish are sentient beings indeed. it is true that they are quite different from other farm species, but they are also able to suffer and feel pain. that is our starting point for this discussion. i understand that there is a growing concern for the welfare of farmed fish in the european union. in recent years, to meet an increasing consumer demand, fish farming has intensified for some species in europe. as the production process is intensified, it has the potential to generate new issues relating to animal welfare, notwithstanding the fact that the public also wants healthy and ethically-produced food. in this context, you wonder why the commission has not yet proposed specific pieces of legislation on the welfare of farmed fish. firstly, i should clarify that the european union animal welfare legislation already covers farmed fish at different stages of production — farming, transport and slaughter. secondly, i want to assure you that the commission takes the welfare of farmed fish seriously. let me outline some of the steps we have taken, particularly under the current commission’s mandate to promote farmed fish welfare. based on the 2012 eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals, the commission mandated a comprehensive study on the welfare of fish during transport and at the time of slaughter. the study was published in november 2017 and led to today’s oral question. the study concluded that in the countries analysed, the transport of fish was in line with the international standards of the world organisation for animal health (oie), and as you know, the oie is the international standard-setting organisation for animal welfare. the study also acknowledged that there was room for improvement when it comes to the slaughter of certain fish species. in march 2018, based on this study, the commission adopted a report on the possibility of introducing certain requirements regarding the protection of fish at the time of killing. the 2018 report concludes that, at this stage, it is not appropriate to propose specific requirements on the welfare of fish at the time of killing. the report indeed considers that improving the welfare of farmed fish could be more easily achieved by voluntary measures. this conclusion is reached on the basis of the consideration that in recent years the industry has introduced improvements in this regard. we are moving in the right direction. in particular, i would like to highlight a number of important points which we should keep in mind when debating the issue. firstly, eu aquaculture is relatively new compared to other animal products and systems. technology to improve the welfare of farmed fish is still developing. secondly, the sector is a very diverse. the main farmed species — salmon, trout, carp, sea bass and sea bream — are biologically very different. each species requires important effort in research and development. thirdly, furthermore the sector differs in size and geographical coverage, with a variety of practices across member states. in this context, having a harmonised approach might be more complex than it appears. in light of these considerations, i think that member states might be more suited to developing good practices in their national context. nevertheless, the commission continues to work on the welfare of farmed fish. allow me to give you some practical examples of these efforts. in 2018, the issue of fish welfare was put on the agenda of the two meetings of the eu animal welfare platform, which gather all key eu stakeholders related to animal welfare. in november 2018, the european court of auditors published a special report on animal welfare. they recommend in particular performing an evaluation of the strategy. later this year, the commission will launch an evaluation of the strategy. i can assure you that the issue of farm fish will be part of the evaluation. in the meantime, the commission will continue to monitor the situation and promote dialogue between stakeholders on this issue.
commissioner, i have also co-signed this oral question on the state of aquaculture and fisheries. i must say, i'm not entirely satisfied with your answer. it was very general and very alibi-y. i think that practice is beginning to show that we lack some legal regulation here of treating fish as living creatures. a similar debate was held here a few weeks ago on the subject of transporting animals across europe. a similar theme is likely to be addressed this autumn, when a citizens' initiative is gathering one million signatures for the commission to tackle the issue of cage farming in europe. in other words, unfortunately this commission has not done much for the status and protection of animals, whether mammals or fish. i hope that the commission that will take over after the next elections will pay more attention to this issue, because animals are living beings and we should respect this when we transport, handle and kill them and we should treat them humanely. so the answer was general, hopefully it'll be better next time.
the commission has also been working on a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. for decades, this has been done in croatia and in the region where i was, in istria, there are crab farms, there are shellfish farms and i am well aware of what all companies do to really show that they care about the welfare of the fish, the welfare of the animals they raise. and i think it's fair to say that there's no doubt that the farms are going to be the places where we're going to get more fish on our table. there's going to be less fish caught, more fish from fish farms, and partly it's our own fault because we have plastic seas around us, plastic oceans around us, and it's obvious that we're going to have to make an effort to make these farms where we can actually grow these sentient beings, these fish that we all love, in a way that's appropriate for today. so i think that, with all the efforts that we want to put into this issue here, to draw attention to farming, slaughter, transport and all those elements that make up the life of fish, i think it is very important that the commission really creates a single system, a single law that will then enable the whole european union, and those who work with us, to farm fish in the way that we think it should be.
mr president, we all know that we are living in a time when populism is on the rise, when hatred is on the rise, when the spreading of falsehoods is a completely natural thing, when we have a strong rise in nationalism, when we have relations where homophobia is just coming out, when afro-phobia is coming out. and look, our president of the european parliament at this time is relativizing what mussolini did, who brought in racist laws. so we live in a time when we really have to be concerned about the society that we're creating. do we really want a society in which people hate each other because of their different religions, nations, or skin colors (as in this case asked by kyenge in a brilliant way)? i want to believe, i want to be naive, i want to be an illusionist, but i want to believe that this planet of ours has a chance. there is a chance in what i fought for to get into this european parliament: in european values. in what it means to tolerate each other, to understand each other and to desire each other for a culture of living.
mr president, the question is not whether we should fight financial crime, tax evasion and tax avoidance, but how to do so most effectively, without distorting the investment climate and creating an overly repressive environment that encourages a grey economy. this report, like many others so far, recommends the creation of new supranational bodies, which i consider unnecessary as we are currently far from the highest possible level of cooperation between national bodies and we do not know whether the new bodies represent added value or only a burden. let's work on a better cooperation first and then we'll see what happens. the call for harmonization of tax rates, specifically vat, is also something i cannot support. simplifying tax systems rather than harmonising them at eu level would be much more beneficial, as, in addition to making fraud more difficult, it would have a positive impact on economic growth, job creation and the investment climate in europe.
mr president, commissioner bulc, this is the most unimportant point of the debate, but also the reaction of our citizens. i must refer to a few facts that have been said here today. so, firstly, as a member of this informal working group in parliament, i have been in favour of abolishing the clock change from the beginning and of course i will be voting tomorrow to accept the amendment to this directive, but i would ask my esteemed colleagues who are making other arguments whether they know on what basis the studies have been launched, that is to say, the introduction of the clock change. what were the arguments when they called for the commission to do a sloppy job today and not to do its part of influencing this directive. the second thing i would like to mention is who asked the citizens then, and the citizens today clearly said that they are for the abolition of moving the clock. a representative sample of 22 000 citizens of the republic of croatia participated in this consultation. this is ten times more than the number of countries involved in national consultations on national laws implementing european directives.
i would like to take this opportunity, madam president, first of all, as shadow rapporteur for the acer regulation, to thank mr petersen for the excellent cooperation and negotiating skills that have resulted in the fact that, of course, the ambitions we had for acer have not been realised, but acer is nevertheless sufficiently strengthened to actually be able to effectively implement the energy policy of the european union through the whole energy union package. what i want to stress, which i think has not been emphasized by the colleagues today, and which concerns this electricity market, is the problem of implementation which commissioner cañete has suggested on several occasions and in the exchange of views he has spoken on our committees. energy poverty is therefore an obligation for member states to implement these directives. active participation of citizens in energy production is also something they have to do. the integrated climate and energy packages already show that there are risks in how member states will successfully implement the very regulations and directives we are discussing today. the european budget, the cohesion fund, the european regional development fund, horizon europe - we are deciding today and tomorrow how they will actually support with public money the implementation of these directives in the member states.
member of the commission. – madam president, the existing tyre labelling regulation dates from 2009 and requires the commission to review it in view of technological progress. after a two—year review, the commission adopted a proposal to revise the existing rules for tyre labelling as part of the third mobility package in may last year. it is an important proposal because road transport is responsible for 27% of final energy consumption in the european union and 20% of the european union’s total greenhouse gas emissions. moreover, rolling resistance of tyres accounts for 5% to 10% of a vehicle’s fuel consumption. therefore, having an up-to-date tyre label provides consumers with the necessary information to allow them to review their fuel consumption and save money. in fact, we estimate that an updated labelling scheme could save annually as much as 129 petajoules (pj) of fuel by 2030, or savings of 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year – the equivalent of removing almost 4 million passenger cars from european union roads. for consumers, this would result in eur 7 billion annual savings in fuel costs. let me start by congratulating the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on the progress made in parliament. i believe that his report strengthens the commission proposal on several points, and in particular on the rule for showing the tyre label on the internet, on the visibility of the tyre label vis-à-vis consumers in shops and with the links with international regulations on tyres. i am also pleased that the report supports the commission proposal as regards the inclusion of tyres in the product registration database established for energy labelling. however, the commission considers that it could be further strengthened in the following areas. firstly, the report’s text leaves the performance levels and related label classes from the 2009 regulation almost unchanged. however, in the meantime, tyres in the bottom classes (f and g) can no longer be sold on the union market, as they are banned by the general safety regulation. although the proposal removes the g class and greys out the f class, leaving the remaining classes as they are today means that there is no additional incentive for tyre manufacturers to innovate and bring more efficient and safe products to the market. secondly, abrasion of tyres is the major source of microplastics in the environment. addressing this is a key priority for the commission under the recently adopted plastics strategy. therefore, the commission considers that as soon as a reliable testing method is available, new rules should be set as quickly as possible. delegated acts would be a much quicker way of doing this than a full legislative proposal as envisaged now by the report. finally, there are several other points of concern, such as the weakening of controls by member states, removing the obligation to show the label in visual advertisements and making the inclusion of the ice and snow logo voluntary instead of mandatory. i am confident that these issues can be addressed in the next phases of the co-decision process.
in the name of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as road transport consumes about 25% of one quarter of total energy consumption, and tyres account for about 10% of that consumption, we are actually talking about a few percent of total energy consumption and it is important to work on this. but tyres do not only affect fuel consumption, they also affect safety, health and noise levels and it is therefore logical that after 10 years we are renewing this regulation with new rules on consumer information and, of course, motives and incentives to buy better tyres so that, in fact, the investment in more expensive tyres is actually obtained by saving on lower fuel consumption. i also welcome the ban on the use of the lowest quality rubber, and we remain, of course, open to the introduction of abrasiveness, as well as the mileage of the rubber when data on these parameters are available and reliable.
mr president, commissioner jourová, i think we all agree and have a consensus in this chamber that the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund are very important for member states to make progress in regions that are lagging behind the european union average, to bring them closer to the more developed regions, to use the money for the right purpose, to promote european policies and common values. however, as a shadow rapporteur i can say that i am disappointed with the outcome of this file, because it falls short of the ambition that was actually proposed by the european commission because we know that in this period a lot of money has actually been spent for the wrong purposes. investing in fossil fuels, in gas infrastructure, in all the things that don't really contribute to the implementation of the policies that we agreed in the european parliament, so the circular economy. today we will vote on the final completion of the energy union of the electricity grid. we are actually going to prevent member states from being able to use public money from european funds effectively for their own development with a proposal like this.
mr president, regional development is an area in which the eu makes a particular contribution by channelling common funds well into quality projects and bypassing most administrative barriers at lower levels. cohesion policy is an important tool for countries like my own croatia to reach out to the developed members. we want the standard of living of the developed countries and a working population to remain in our country because without it we cannot build a better future. as a member of the committee on regional development and as a representative from croatia, i support a new approach, better-defined objectives and a future orientation with stronger support for sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
mr president, cohesion policy is the main instrument for promoting social, economic and territorial cohesion and solidarity between different regions. the union's contribution to the financing of the european investment bank (eib) is estimated at eur 300 million. the new proposal contains some positive provisions to adjust funding to future needs. it is worth welcoming the 80 measures to make the use of funds easier. however, macroeconomic conditionality and increasing the burden of co-financing on the states and regions are not the solution to the current problems. moreover, it will only further hinder regions with smaller budgets from submitting projects, and those are the ones that need the funds the most. a greater degree of decentralisation, flexibility and stronger capacity of public administrations in project preparation and implementation are needed. the future of the cohesion and regional development funds depends on the budget. the uncertainty of brexit and the refusal of some member states to allocate additional funds must not jeopardise the objectives of cohesion policy. i support the rapporteur's work and thank him, especially in the light of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which also includes the islands directly in the proposal.
mr president, colleagues have spoken a great deal about the importance of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund in the daily lives of citizens. i would like to stress that this new proposal is particularly important because we are opening the door to sport infrastructure which is as important in the member states as it is, but also to greater investment in integrated territorial investment and development, and in particular the minimum investment we are prescribing for rural development. we're all in the same boat. the european commission, the council and us in the european parliament. if we are talking about smart villages, if we are talking about responding to demographic challenges, if we are talking about the importance of a balanced development of europe of equal opportunities and living standards for all citizens, then we must demonstrate this through the budget and the instruments we finance from the european budget. it is therefore important that this new regulation responds to the needs of our citizens and to the balanced development of all member states.
mr. chairman, studies have shown that changing the time of the hour, which is caused by seasons and seasons, has had a negative impact on health, on transport, on the energy system, on agriculture, and that is why i am advocating today to abolish the change of time. however, i would also like to see us not wait until 2021 when we can already, at the end of march, stick to daylight saving time. so i advocated for this report, but my personal view is that we should stick to daylight saving time, and i believe that research will show that daylight saving time will win. normally, it was left to the member states to decide for themselves, however, there will be problems with coordination. i think that will have to be agreed, because then, if we have different time, it will have a negative impact on borders and traffic, and therefore i am in favour of summer time.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the agri committee. mr president, the way we check the financial and material framework for the annual expenditure of the union budget, which we do through the discharge of the court of auditors' report, guarantees to the citizens of the union that their hard-earned money, then paid in taxes, is spent in the best possible way, in a transparent manner and in accordance with the policies adopted by the union. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to stress that better identification of the causes of errors in the implementation of the cap is important for the implementation of agricultural policy. the court of auditors should be able to distinguish the cause of errors because in complex procedures with many stakeholders, unintentional errors are something that can be expected with a higher frequency. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the cap is a policy that affects more than 11 million farmers and 22 million agricultural workers and it is therefore important that errors are detected and corrected in a timely manner at a high rate.
madam president, as presented in the eu global strategy, never has our unity been so challenged. we can fight these challenges by ensuring a more inclusive european approach in external action, including closer development cooperation. we need to maximise the added value and shared the expertise of all member states. together, we will be able to achieve more than any member state acting alone. to reach this objective, i – supported by a diverse group of co—signing colleagues from different political groups – tabled amendment 555, which calls ‘to foster collaboration and increase our capacities’. it is important to use this window of opportunity through the next multiannual financial framework, and in particular the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, to promote our unique european competence to act effectively together.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. madam president, i would like to welcome commissioner hahn. commissioner, you made it clear in your speech that all areas are important to the ipa. of course, new challenges are now facing not only the member states but also these candidate and acceding countries, such as environmental challenges, energy efficiency or migration, so it is important that we provide sufficient budgetary resources to respond to new challenges as well. you've also stressed the importance of strategic planning, which is becoming increasingly sophisticated. what i do not agree with is the allocation of funds by thematic priorities only, not by member states. i think it is very important to continue to have indicative amounts by country, not by member states, but by candidate and acceding countries, i.e. by ipa beneficiary countries. why would you do that? because in countries where there are not enough proposed projects and not enough strong capacity, we need to provide stronger technical assistance. we also need to administratively strengthen delegations to help these countries to be able to use the resources, not just compete with each other, so that those who are better can move forward more and faster.
on behalf of the s&d club. other the ipa funding should represent a long-term investment in the european future of the western balkans. however, such a future is becoming increasingly uncertain given the political climate in the european union, the internal challenges facing the union and the upcoming european union elections. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes, in particular the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes. some of them, like montenegro, have already moved far away in the negotiations. north macedonia has earned the right to finally start them. albania is too. the ipa must remain a separate instrument with increased resources to stimulate growth and development and to monitor the conditionality of the protection of human rights and promote the union's fundamental values. in addition, we need to support capacity building and facilitate the exchange of best practices between users and member states. it promotes good neighborly relations. although i regret that some of the good proposals of the committee on regional development were not accepted, i congratulate the rapporteurs and support the proposed text.
madam president, honourable commissioner hahn, dear colleagues, taking note of the challenging times that the candidate countries are going through, the european union should improve its efforts in prioritising key areas for its funding. enhancing support to candidate countries in implementing measures that focus on institutional resilience and security-building are of key importance. in addition, the most visible way to success for this founding mechanism is to embrace a strategic plan of promotion and communication. therefore, i stress in my amendments that only by increasing the visibility of the instrument, both within the european union as well as in the candidate countries, we can optimise the european union’s main instrument for peace and stability in the enlargement area.
madam chair, brexit has proven to be a completely chaotic process. the british chose to leave almost three years ago, and at this point it is still uncertain whether, when and under what conditions it will come to pass. it's a shame, you know. not only for the british government, which is incapable of meeting the demands of its own citizens, but also for the european union, which has no regard for the will of the people. even before brexit, the european establishment had ignored the will of the european people expressed in a democratic referendum. all this has been seen before, and the lessons, obviously, have not been learned. brexit is being used to send a message to the other members not to even think about leaving, because if one britain had a problem with it, what would happen to the smaller countries that are not islands on the edge of the european continent and have adopted a common currency. the negotiations were not conducted in good faith, and that will cost us all. and when the bills come due then, of course, the other side will be blamed.
written. i believe that the vote on the legislative package on mobility needs to be postponed until the next european parliament and prepared in such a way that it is acceptable to all member states, which it is not at present. the legislative proposal needs to be improved in order to achieve a level playing field for our road hauliers on the european market. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. the commission notes that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided any evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided evidence that the cypriot authorities have not provided evidence that the cypriot citizens have not provided evidence. the proposed acts do not bring the necessary changes in line with the situation and needs on the ground, nor do they respond to the transport sector, let alone the economy in general.
madam chair, the fact is that we live in the age of plastic and no one can deny that. the data is striking. if we've produced eight billion tons of plastic in 65 years, and if we've produced six billion tons of waste, then we really have to think about that fact. i want to welcome this trilogue, which i believe will end with a vote here today in parliament. also, the fact that 85 percent of marine plastic pollution, half of which comes from single-use products and a quarter from fishing gear, is also something to think about, and i hope we'll find alternative solutions. so the alternative is very important, and where there is an alternative we have to replace it. where there is none, we need to invest in research, development and innovation, creating jobs and allowing new products to enter the market. in any case, i fully support this initiative, i fully support this directive and i believe that we will implement it as quickly as possible in our national legislation.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just listening to the contributions from the honourable members, i was reflecting on how unique it is that the opinion about this proposal is shared across the political spectrum. there are a few exceptions, but, by and large, it applies from left to right. i was wondering how we got here so fast, because we did reach this point quite rapidly. if you think back three or four years, i don’t think we were there yet. that is why, after the thanks we gave to the rapporteur and to the co-legislators, i think it’s only right that i should mention also those who have contributed to creating a sense of urgency in broader society, because that’s what’s driving us. there is a huge sense of urgency in european society that this needs to be done and it needs to be done now. you have boyan slat, who was mentioned before; you have the plastic soup surfer; and you have ellen macarthur, who was one of the first sailing the seas, discovering the extent of the problem. you have the wonderful blue planet series by david attenborough, who had a huge impact on public opinion. you have the wide-ranging media, who have taken up responsibility to create public awareness. you have the educational system that takes responsibility here. you’ve also seen the force of the ngo community across the european union creating the sense of urgency. academia has played a wonderful role in finding new solutions. if we are to say today that it’s quite remarkable that we got here, we have also to be grateful to all those outside the political sphere who got us to this point. i do agree with those of you who said it’s only a first step. with all the self-congratulation here today, we should also remember that we have a long, long way to go until we actually have a circular economy. this is an important step. it’s also a unique step because it takes the full circle of plastic into account. it’s a unique step that is recognised at the global level. the united nations always give questions about this. asian countries are very much interested in what we are doing. latin american countries as well. even though our share of the pollution is relatively limited, our change of economic model has a global impact, and it will also change economic models elsewhere. so don’t let anybody discourage you by saying that europe only has such a small part. the size of our economy is such that, if we change our economy and create a more sustainable economy, it will have an impact on the economies of other parts of the world. it is already having an impact. plastic pollution is something that is felt across the board and by many countries and many regions. i also want to add that – to be very, very clear on this – it will also affect packaging. we have put plastic packaging in the proposal. it should be recyclable or no longer used by 2030. that’s something that’s in the proposal. we also want to go further. microplastics are a huge challenge to our health, and we need to come up with proposals: firstly, removing it from products where it’s not even needed. we don’t need microplastics in detergents. we don’t need microplastics in cosmetics. then we need to look at products where we still need them and look for alternatives: in tyres, for instance. tyres are one of the worst polluters in that area. just to give you my sense of urgency, this is something we will still have to do, whatever the composition of the next commission. i am confident, because since this is something that is shared by the full political spectrum of this house, it will also be something that will be shared by the next commission, the next european parliament and the council.
written. we live in the age of plastic and this is extremely worrying! in just 65 years, more than eight billion tons of plastic and more than six billion tons of waste have been produced. plastics account for 85 percent of marine pollution, half of which is single-use plastic, and so i think that's where we need to take the first step, as this report i voted for says. this is a global challenge that requires ambitious and gradual measures such as banning single-use plastics at eu level where alternatives exist, such as for forks, knives, spoons, chopsticks, plates, ear buds, straws, drink mixers, etc. the commission wants to ensure that at least 90% of beverage bottles are collected by 2025 and extend the producer responsibility scheme to all product categories covered, except sanitary towels, tampons and tampon applicators. this extended responsibility will cover the costs of collection and cleaning and public awareness raising measures. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of scientific and technical research and technological development, in order to amend this directive by supplementing it with new provisions.
mr president, visa liberalisation is a clear message to third country nationals that the union sees their country as a close partner. to talk about kosovo's european perspective and at the same time insist on visas to enter the eu is utterly hypocritical. it's especially hypocritical if it's politically motivated, while selling a story about the criteria that are important to meet. if the criteria are so important to us, and i really think they should be, then when a third country meets those criteria, it should no longer be an obstacle. since it is kosovo, the international status of this country is again being questioned. we also have member states that have not yet recognized kosovo. like it or not, kosovo is a state. it is up to us to help it become a stable and successful country, a partner and a friend, instead of sabotaging it for selfishness, hypocrisy and politics.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. - i think this is about politics. the countries that had a lot more criminals, where it was a lot worse, we let them into the european union, so we took away their visa regime, but not kosovo. i call it pure politics.
mr president, the plan for visa liberalisation for kosovo was presented in 2012, four years later than the other countries in the region. kosovo met as many as 95 criteria by 2016, and they met two additional ones on progress in respecting the rule of law and, politically most challenging, ratifying the border agreement with montenegro exactly one year ago. however, this has not changed anything, and the frustration and sense of isolation of the citizens of kosovo, the country with the youngest population in europe, is justifiably growing. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. such decisions, to be sure, are not good, but they should be understood as such in the context of discontent with an unacceptable situation. the european union must be consistent and respect the rules it has set itself. the issue should be de-politicized and linked to other legislative and negotiating processes. the citizens of kosovo must finally be made equal to all other citizens of the western balkans when they enter the european union, they certainly deserve that.
mr president, i agree with those who have said that it is high time that visa liberalisation for kosovo was allowed. i am sorry that some representatives here call kosovo a province, it is clear that kosovo is a recognized state and i am sorry that for their narrow national reasons they reject this idea. the fact is that the citizens of kosovo and the kosovo authorities have fulfilled the demands we asked of them, which was the demarcation of the border with kosovo, they also advised on anti-corruption laws and i regret that today this session serves in fact, from my perspective, as pressure on some countries in the european council to allow kosovo visa liberalization. i think it is very important for this young nation, for this young state because they want to travel simply like all other citizens of south-eastern europe and in that direction i would like the commission to do, and i see that the commission confirms, the parliament confirms, and it is necessary to put additional pressure on the european council so that the citizens of kosovo can travel without hindrance.
mr. chairman, access to safe water is an achievement that, unfortunately, we often take for granted. however, this area needs to be regulated, monitored and adapted to new challenges and circumstances on the ground. as a representative from a country with an exceptional water resource base, i commend the rapporteur for respecting the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity, by leaving the responsibility for the application of minimum quality requirements to the member states. the risk-based approach is also absolutely justified and i warmly welcome its standardisation by this proposal.
mr. chairman, thank you very much. i am pleased to be here today to discuss the quality of the water our citizens use, given that according to a new study by the european union environment agency, only 40% of europe's rivers, lakes, estuaries and coastal waters meet the environmental standards set by the european water directive. it is therefore clear that most member states need to make additional efforts to meet the objectives of the directive to ensure sufficient quantities of quality water for the environment and for human needs in the future. the current directive has been in force for 20 years without major changes, and i therefore welcome the efforts of rapporteur michel dantin and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to align drinking water quality standards with the latest health data and to adapt the legislative framework to better respond to new challenges such as increasingly frequent and prolonged droughts caused by climate change. i would like to stress again the importance of the first european citizens' initiative, right to water, which was supported by more than 1 800 000 citizens. the right to clean, safe drinking water is the minimum standard we must ensure, and this has been confirmed by the united nations. water is a natural resource that, thank god, in my homeland croatia is abundant, but also water must remain a public good, we must manage it responsibly and i am happy that today in this house we are trying to ensure the citizens of the european union the right to drinking water. i am of course also supporting the commission in its efforts to improve the health of our citizens, but i am sorry that we are postponing this document for the next mandate.
written. the creative and cultural sectors account for 7.5% of the eu's workforce, representing more than 12 million full-time jobs. these sectors generate value added of approximately eur 509 billion and are the largest employers in the union after the construction and food and drink sectors. the creative europe programme is the only direct union programme for the cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors and builds on previous programmes, with the practice of exchanges and dialogue between cultural institutions of the member states. the commission has decided to increase the budget of the programme by 17% and the new budget proposal of eur 1,85 billion, under the emff for the period 2021-2027, is divided into three sub-programmes: media, culture and cross-sectoral activity. the commission will also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget to finance the measures referred to in article 3 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. the sub-programme for culture will allocate eur 609 million to promote europe's cultural and creative sectors, while the sub-programme for inter-sectoral activities will allocate eur 160 million to smes working in the cultural and creative sectors. it is necessary to emphasise that cultural and audiovisual operators face many challenges and obstacles, including the advancement of digital technology, market fragmentation and difficulties in accessing funding. the eu has great ambitions for culture, and a strong creative europe programme will make them a reality.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, the erasmus programme has proved to be a true added value. it has enabled millions of students to study in europe's best higher education institutions, to exchange knowledge and skills, to establish business contacts and to learn about other countries and their customs. i support the increase in the budget for this programme and share the view that certain adjustments in the way funding is provided should ensure better access to excluded groups. in my country, croatia, students with poorer financial circumstances and existing scholarships often have no choice but to drop out of erasmus, which is a great loss for them personally and for this programme. the objectives of the programme must be educational, cultural and business-related, not political. building a european identity should not be one of the official aims of erasmus. it is quite possible that this process would happen by itself with a programme like this, but it should not be encouraged by the institutions, because that would mean that the main motive for erasmus is not a genuine concern for the future of young people but something else entirely.
i would like to welcome the commissioner and thank mr zwer as rapporteur for this important report on the erasmus programme. we set a very, very ambitious goal, which is to create a european education area by 2025. it is very important because it is not just about the recognition of qualifications and diplomas in the member states, but also about the exchange of knowledge and the most important and latest achievements, so that those less developed should not have to discover everything from the beginning, but that they can make development leaps, not constantly, step by step, slowly develop. so it is also important for the uniform development of the whole european union. that is why we must be ambitious and that is why i support and stand firmly behind our proposal in the report, namely to triple the amount of funds. that's what young people and teachers and athletes need.
mr president, first of all, i would like to welcome the commissioner and i am pleased that we can confirm here today that erasmus+ is one of the best and most successful programmes of the european union. i also want to thank my colleague zver who made an excellent report, but who at this moment told me one fact that is very interesting, and that is that a million new babies were born on the basis of the erasmus+ project. i think we should also not forget the demographic reasons why we support this project. so, nine million eu citizens, especially young people, have so far taken part in this project, and the new assumptions are that there are 12 million citizens who could benefit from this programme. of course i see you want to double the funds. i think it is good that this debate should take place before we adopt the multiannual financial framework. in any case, this project is inclusive, it encourages mobility, it encourages exchange, and above all it is important to note equity. once again, thank you, mr beast.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for this opportunity to clarify the commission’s position on the legislation adopted in austria that provides for indexation of family benefits and family tax reductions when the children concerned reside abroad. for me, the discussion is about fairness and equal treatment. you have heard me say before that there are no second-class workers in the union and i’ve always insisted on equal pay for equal work at the same place. we ensured this key principle when we revised the rules for posted workers. equal treatment also means equal benefits. when mobile workers contribute to a social security and tax system in the same way as local workers do, they should receive the same benefits, regardless of where the children live abroad. there should be no second class workers, but also no second class children. under the european social security regulation, european citizens that work in another member state and contribute just like local workers are entitled to the same social security benefits and tax advantages. the commission considers that any adjustment mechanism for family benefits and family tax credits for children of migrant workers who are residing in another member state are not compatible with our acquis. such indexation mechanisms go against the principle of equal treatment set out in regulation 883 on social security coordination. it also goes against article 7 of that regulation, which expressly states that cash benefits cannot be reduced or modified merely because family members reside in other member states. it also breaches the principle of equal treatment as regards social and fiscal advantages laid down in the free movement regulation – the principle of equal treatment that is also at the heart of the single market. you know that some member states asked to introduce indexation of child benefits when we launched a revision of the european union social security regulations. but we refused to propose such indexation, based on our strong belief that mobility needs to be based on fair rules. that has remained the commission’s position throughout the negotiations on the proposed modernisation of social security rules on which we reached a political agreement last week – an agreement that, i can assure you, is a balanced agreement, built on the shared understanding that european rules should safeguard free movement and protect citizens’ rights by strengthening the tools to address possible fraud or abuse. an agreement that still has to be confirmed by coreper next friday, so tomorrow, and also of course by parliament in the coming weeks. as regards the legislation introduced in austria since 1 january, you know that the commission has already launched an infringement procedure. we sent a letter of formal notice to the austrian government on 25 january. this monday we received a reply from the austrian government and we are now in the process of analysing this reply before we can decide on the appropriate next step. i can assure you that we take this situation seriously, as indeed many families are directly affected by this austrian law and have seen their benefits reduced. i have to add, however, that in order to preserve their rights, the citizens concerned should be prepared to claim their rights before the austrian administration and, if necessary, start court proceedings. national courts are bound to apply european law and they are the only ones that can offer citizens direct redress when their rights are not respected. as in other infringement cases, i am confident that the commission’s actions will result in the correct and effective application of european law in all member states. that is indeed what citizens and businesses and also member states expect from us in a single market.
i would like to ask the commission to be absolutely uncompromising on this matter. it is impossible to turn a blind eye when one of the member states infringes the fundamental principles of european law, the principles of free movement of persons and equal treatment. it is not just that europeans, citizens of other eu countries, who work in austria and therefore pay taxes in austria and therefore have a logical and moral right to the same social benefits are discriminated against. but it is a very dangerous precedent, which if left unchecked, will start to break up the internal market of the european union and destroy the ideas on which european integration is based. and that is extremely dangerous. so i thank you very much for seeing this austrian populist proposal as unacceptable, and i very much ask that the european commission here does everything possible to negotiate a remedy for austria. it was clearly stated that eu citizens working in austria and paying taxes and social security contributions in austria as austrians are logically entitled to the same social benefits as austrians. it is a principle of european integration, and we cannot judge the economic differences between member states, undermine the principle of european solidarity and say that if you have children in a country where social security contributions are lower, you should receive lower contributions if you pay the same taxes in austria as austrians. so i think it's clear from a principled point of view, it's clear from a moral point of view, and i very much beg you, let's avoid it. we had a similar debate a year ago with the uk, which was considering similar legislation, and unfortunately brexit has solved the uk problem, but if we close our eyes and other countries adopt the kind of populist measures i have suggested, we could put european integration in a very serious jeopardy. and the damage will not be just to those citizens, but to the whole of the european union.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i must say that i am very satisfied with the position taken by the commissioner. your optimism and your intentions inspire confidence and i believe that the commission and you really want to do what is the only right and the only fair thing, namely to have a common coordinated social policy, to have solidarity in the european union and, of course, to have taxpayers, workers who pay taxes in individual countries, have the same rights. this is also the postulate of our, after all, single market. so i believe that this initiative that came from the epp, let's be clear, and at the same time the epp has power in austria, but we know who else, with the coalition partner with whom he will be talking right now after me. i'm a little sorry that i'm not speaking after him, but i want to be very clear: my dad also worked in austria, and my dad participated and helped grow in austria as a wine engineer at krems, and i know what it means when someone is a gastarbeiter in austria. my mother is austrian, and that's why i'm surprised by the austrian attitude, because i know how much solidarity and fairness there is in that austria. i believe that in the end those who want a better and safer europe will win.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank mr. budi for launching this initiative, as well as the other colleagues. it is a fundamental principle that workers in the european union should have equal obligations and equal rights. so it is not that this is not a decision based on solidarity, but that this decision violates the principle of equality of citizens of the european union before the institutions of the member states, violates the principles of the common market and, if you will, violates the principle of free choice of place and way of life. i welcome the commission's very clear position in this regard. the commissioner also announced the possibility for citizens to bring actions before the austrian courts, but it would be much more effective for the commission to be strongly involved, both for citizens and for the austrian judiciary, for the commission to have a strong involvement in this procedure that it has opened because it is very clear: it is not just a violation of a principle, it is also a violation of european law, the regulation on the coordination of social security systems and, equally, the rules on posted workers. so, beyond solidarity, beyond principle, this is a breach of european law and i therefore expect the commission to take strong action against the republic of austria for breaching european law.
written. the creation of family-oriented policies is of vital importance for the european union today, but also for its future, especially in these times of poor demographic indicators. ensuring good conditions for maternity, parental, paternity and care leave is crucial in this respect and contributes to the creation of a balance between work and family life. the republic of croatia ensures parents the right to parental leave of between eight and thirty months, depending on the number of children born and the way it is used, and therefore croatia can in this respect be an example to other member states where parental leave is relatively short. the abolition of the allowance cap is also under consideration, which would allow croatian parents to receive full pay during the entire period of parental leave. i am pleased that the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on work-life balance for parents and carers introduces mandatory 10-day paternity leave, as croatia is one of the few countries that does not have this provision, but is only considering it. we still face problems as a society where fathers are not easily allowed by their employers to exercise their parental leave rights or are conditioned to do so. this obstacle must be overcome because the presence of a parent in the early years of a child's life is irreplaceable.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, it is important that we discuss this whistleblower protection proposal in these very days of the arrest of julian assange and in the context of increasingly frequent legal and physical attacks on journalists. i am particularly pleased that we have before us a balanced report that, when implemented, would improve the protection of all those who disclose classified information but in the public interest. but for the protection system to work, we need to create a social environment where the sacrifice of whistleblowers is valued and the institutions act transparently and professionally on the information they have provided. this information should not be taken for granted as it would leave room for manipulation of the public, but it should certainly be the basis for conducting an investigation and telling the full truth. the second important prerequisite is the efficiency of the judiciary and the security apparatus, and this is a pressing problem in a few member states that needs to be addressed as soon as possible.
the european union must continue to be a global leader in ensuring good working conditions. the digital transformation of the economy and society as a whole has opened up many new opportunities, but we must not allow this wave of change brought about by the fourth industrial revolution to push millions of people to the margins of society. new flexible forms of employment allow for the maximum use of the opportunities offered by the digital economy, and during the recovery from the last global crisis, many people have been kept above the surface. better information for workers is essential to enable them to exercise their full rights in a dynamic market. i would point out that our job as legislators is not to impose forms on workers and employers but to ensure that there is a balance in their relationship. the rest should be left to them and their associations.
madam president, i am a strong advocate of ensuring a high level of workers' rights and creating a social climate in which it will be normal for those rights to be respected. in parts of europe, it's still not that way, despite the fact that there's a good legal framework and all the bureaucratic forces that are constantly supplementing and enforcing it. you're probably wondering how that's possible. very simply: administrative bodies are no guarantee of respect for workers' rights or of ensuring good working conditions. i would say the opposite: the more laws and bureaucracy, the worse the protection of workers in practice. i cannot support the creation of a european labour authority because it would mean an increase in bureaucracy and a new competition for powers with already inefficient national authorities. someone has to pay for this bureaucratic circus, and it's the workers who don't need the extra burden that won't do them much good.
mr president, i would just like to remind my colleague that today we are voting on the usual procedure and we shouldn’t be listening to this highly ideological speech in this parliament. please decide on it on its merit.
mr president, it is of the utmost importance for democracy on the european continent to stop any attempt by outside interference in elections at all levels, including the elections to the european parliament. it is necessary to make every effort to ensure that the electoral process is as transparent as possible and that all the tools used in it are tested and secure. but no less dangerous for democracy in europe is the often completely unfounded blame for changes in europe's political map being placed on russia, america and other global players. i fear that after the election we will be faced with a long period of self-deception in the ranks of the federalists, as we see in america, among the democrats. the political forces that have caused the union to be abandoned by one of its largest, richest and most influential members will be punished in this election. europeans do not want a superstate or brussels trampling on member states. they want sovereign nations and they'll show it in the election.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for the committee on development for the opinion on horizon europe, i already emphasised the importance of horizon europe for the developing countries. the same goes for european citizens. the horizon europe programme must create opportunities to finance, establish and maintain local, inclusive societies. we can boost local inventors and entrepreneurs and help them to realise their dreams. we must encourage them to stay and develop these inventions close to their proximity in order for the local society to benefit from their achievement. the perfect illustration for this is the success story of croatian entrepreneur mate rimac. thanks to recent european financial support, this amazing, successful young businessman managed to create electronic hybrid cars that not only gained world fame for its astonishing products but also boosted the croatian economy by the creation of hundreds of jobs. let this ‘rimac effect’ be an inspiration for the future of horizon europe to foster eu competitiveness by focusing on increased deployment of research, development and innovation.
mr president, i can only welcome the establishment of horizon europe and the additional investment in science and research. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. however, additional funding will not have the desired effect if scientific achievements are not equally valued across the union. it is known that the vast majority of projects funded through the european research council go to the old member states, while the new and less developed ones get crumbs. that has to change. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the union's policies on the environment and the environment. only in this way can we attract young people to engage in science and innovation across europe and create the conditions for them to stay in their home countries and create prosperity there that will then contribute to the growth of the union as a whole.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am really happy to see the successful outcome of the negotiations on the regulation on market surveillance and compliance. i would like to thank all of you, the parliament, for the support for this initiative. it is an important delivery for the single market strategy. the regulation addresses a very important problem in the single market, which is that there are too many unsafe and non-compliant products on our eu market. it is also a major step forward. it will ensure better protection of consumers and lead to a fairer single market for products in the eu. let me thank wholeheartedly the rapporteur, mr nicola danti, and shadow rapporteurs mr karas, mr selimovic and mr dalton. i know that it was a huge effort and i know it has not been easy to finish this file ahead of the elections. as all of us know, there are things that we would have liked to see differently so, on the first point, we will prepare a declaration on the legal basis of this regulation. on the second one, more positive, we will commit to working towards more uniformity of controls at the external borders as they are very important elements of this regulation. we will have the unique opportunity to stop unsafe and non-compliant products before they are put on our european markets. the regulation will improve sharing of intelligence between national inspectors and customs authorities as well. on several points, the proposal, let me also underline this, was even improved. i am thinking here especially of the addition of peer reviews. this regulation will make as well a fundamental difference for national inspectors. first of all, it will give authorities better tools and powers to investigate products sold online. the regulation gives inspectors the power to deal directly with the new business actors in digital supply chains, such as fulfilment centres and online market places. further, for many product categories, there will be a business representative in the eu. this will make it easier for authorities to obtain the information they need to verify compliance and to resolve non-compliance cases. secondly, the regulation will improve cooperation between authorities and businesses. preventing non-compliance is even more important than policing the market – i think that we share this view – as some businesses act in good faith but they are ignorant about the rules. the regulation provides businesses with very clear channels for obtaining information on eu product rules. thirdly, and perhaps more importantly, it will improve cooperation between all authorities in the european union. as you know, there are currently more than 500 market surveillance authorities across the eu so the products flow freely across our internal borders but, unfortunately, enforcement does not. the regulation requires member states to help each other in cross—border cases. it also requires national inspectors to work closer with customs authorities. there will be eu-wide cooperation through the eu product compliance network. only one element is missing – the money – especially for cooperation through the abovementioned product compliance network. the money needs to come from the single market programme. i am very pleased that you have been actively engaged in securing this and i count on parliament’s further support in that respect. to conclude, let me say that i believe that we have reached a very good compromise, a balanced compromise, reflecting the different views and different concerns of all parties. i hope you will also endorse it tomorrow. commission statements(in writing) "on the legal base:the commission takes note that the text agreed replaces the triple legal basis of the commission proposal (article 114 tfeu - internal market, article 33 tfeu – customs cooperation, article 207 – common commercial policy) by a double legal basis, through deletion of the common commercial policy legal basis. the commission continues to consider that the triple legal basis is fully justified in relation to the provisions that regulate conditions for access to the eu market of products originating from third countries. moreover, the common commercial policy legal basis is in line with the legal basis of regulation (ec) 765/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 setting the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the commission regrets the deletion of article 207 tfeu as legal basis of the regulation." "on the implementing act to set uniform conditions for customs controls (article 25(8)):in order to strengthen controls on products at customs, the regulation empowers the commission to adopt implementing acts to determine benchmarks and techniques for checks on the basis of common risk analysis on the union level. the commission intends to make use of this empowerment."
on behalf of the ecr club. mr. chairman, the internet has changed the way we work. changes in human behavior are visible in all areas of life, and so, among other things, we shop differently today than we did before the internet. the growth of online commerce has led to a dramatic increase in fraud, and effective consumer protection has become a considerable challenge in the new circumstances. harmonising products in the single market would reduce fraud and restore consumer confidence. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisations. in doing so, account should be taken of the balance between protecting the interests and rights of consumers on the one hand and preserving the advantages of e-commerce such as speed, lower costs and simplicity on the other.
i am pleased, mr president, that the subject of dual quality of products has been included in this debate on the directive on the european union rules on consumer protection. in response to several questions from the commission on consumer discrimination and product differences between the west and the east and written statements on these differences, i received the commission's reply that the differences are the result of consumer tastes and business strategies. dissatisfied with this commission position, i launched an interpellation, supported by 44 meps, on the differences in declarations, composition and taste of products on the eu market. i also, with the support of a colleague, launched a proposal for a union act calling for a review of food legislation in the european union and the elimination of discrimination. as a result of these activities, a plenary debate followed, which i supported with my czech colleague šojdrova by organising a tasting of croatian, german and czech products under the title 'taste the difference'. i believe that the european commission and juncker himself, spurred on by our pressure last april, proposed a new consumer agreement, the new deal, with the aim of establishing equal standards for all consumers under european union law. the parliament's position is clear, as we showed by our vote back in september, but since the text reached in the trilogue was not satisfactory, i co-signed the amendments which aim to improve the text and finally ensure equal quality for all citizens of the european union. i appeal to all my colleagues to accept these amendments because for me this is also a fight against two-speed europe. i will be sorry if the european parliament does not approve these amendments by a majority vote, because it will still be a bitter taste that not everyone wants a europe of equal citizens. so i am against double standards, i am against the differences between east and west, and i would remind you that mr juncker himself has said several times here that europe should breathe with one lung, equally with the right and the left, equally with both lungs. and i ask you to take that into account tomorrow when you vote.
mr. chairman, six years ago, when i started working on the problem of product quality differences, it seemed quite improbable that we would have a law today banning this unfair practice. it's the result of six years of persuasion, reports, research, recommendations. now no one will be able to say that croats or bulgarians, for example, just want food that is less healthy, or they just want technical goods that are of poorer quality or detergent that does not wash well. for millions of eu citizens, this is a highly emotional issue. we felt like second-class citizens because of this, and rightly so. with this law, parliament shows that there is no east and west, that we are one europe. we must all be the same. we must not allow this practice to continue. equality is extremely important. today we send a message like this all over europe.
the mobility of workers has raised an important issue of social security for cross-border workers. in order to allow them to exercise their rights without hindrance, the competent authorities of the member states must cooperate better with each other and their national legislation must be as harmonised as possible. i am aware of the need to make some improvements in this area, but i cannot support the proposed solution because it introduces new complications and opens up the door to fraud. the social system must remain primarily the responsibility of the member states and the rights to benefits of the mobile worker should be exercised in the home country until they expire or are renounced. until that moment, you should not be entitled to compensation in the member state where you wish to find work. by entering the labour market in another member state, a worker should lose his right to remuneration in his home member state or in the member state where he previously exercised that right. more complicated solutions, while seemingly more favourable to workers, will only create legal confusion and place additional burdens on social systems.
mr president, frontex should have a role in protecting the external borders of the union, but the proposed direction of the agency's development is wrong. instead of a highly specialised mobile force for rapid crisis response, with a parallel strengthening of the border police who are the most competent to defend the border, a new, overly bureaucratic service is being created with overstaffed staff whose efficiency will be highly questionable. the problem of illegal migration must be addressed at source and this proposal does not give frontex the power to participate in the return of migrants from third countries to third countries. this means that frontex, for example, will not be able to assist in the return of illegal migrants from north african countries to the countries from which these migrants come. with this policy, we are condemning ourselves to fight illegal migration and organized crime at our doorstep instead of solving the problem as far as possible beyond our borders. immigration and asylum policy calls for a drastic, not a cosmetic change like this.
the european commission has already launched a new initiative, the european border and coast guard, which will be implemented in the coming months. the new agency will help to improve border protection in order to preserve free movement within the union. i support the new contingent of 10 000 operatives because within a maximum of five days they can assist a member state if it is faced with an increased influx of migrants at the border. the agency is not only a support but also a coordinator of actions at the external borders and will, in respect of fundamental rights, participate more actively in the processing of the right to asylum and the return of those who do not meet the conditions. i think it was worth considering the idea of processing claims and returns in neighboring countries to speed up the whole process. as i come from croatia, the country with the longest external land border in the european union, i particularly support the work of the agency on the external borders of the union, not just the schengen area, beyond which we are unfortunately fenced by barbed wire. i am glad that we will have stronger support from the european union in controlling our and europe's borders.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her wonderful achievement. it is without doubt that a strong and cohesive european union can only be safeguarded with well-functioning border control at the external borders. the importance of this issue is very clear when you look at croatia. this country has the longest external border of the european union. its national forces work rigorously to maintain european internal security. with this upgrade of equipment, an increased standing corps and readiness in a crisis situation, the european border and coast guard agency can provide crucial assistance to its member states in critical border regions. the next step is to engage all our partners and third countries to cooperate and to provide the technical and operational support that leads to effective management of the union’s migration policy.
mr. president, the most important new provision in the amendment to the visa code is to link the issuing of visas to cooperation on readmission. in this context, i warmly welcome the creation of mechanisms that will enable the european union to use visa policy to encourage third countries to cooperate in the readmission segment. the commission has decided to take into account the fact that visa policy has an important role to play in the possibility of better impacting third countries in terms of readmission of irregular migrants. although this is a small step in a positive direction, i certainly welcome it, with the hope that the new parliamentary session and the european commission in the new mandate will adapt visa and migration policy to the new political reality.
i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs fernandes and gualtieri on the excellent agreement reached on the key elements of the new investeu programme, which, as the commissioner also specifically pointed out, is a very important windfall for future negotiations which should be quicker and simpler in the new parliament for this very programme. for the third time in the european parliament, i am speaking about the investeu programme because i think it is very important that we are involved not only in the legislative design of this programme but also later on in helping to implement the programme in the member states in a quality way and especially in increasing its visibility. it is very important that we finance with investeu projects that cannot get funding from traditional commercial credit sources or, say, from cohesion policy, but that we invest in projects of innovators, entrepreneurs, startups, startups that need to scale up as quickly as possible or entrepreneurs in difficulty that deserve a second chance. so they should be directed to projects that have potential but cannot otherwise be realized by the usual sources of commercial bank financing. what i'd like to draw your attention to is the geographical distribution. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new programme.
author. – mr president, even on this last day of the final plenary session of our mandate, we show our commitment to fight for justice and a humane world. today this brings us to cameroon. numerous reports from human rights monitors have documented the excessive use of force by security forces, and continued human rights violations against citizens. several members of an opposition party, including its leader maurice kamto, and a large number of protesters and sympathisers are imprisoned. on top of that the authorities of cameroon have repeatedly restricted freedom of expression by shutting down the internet and harassing and detaining journalists. these actions are fundamentally against the values and standards that we promote on the international scene. for that reason we, as the european parliament, must act. we must call upon the authorities of cameroon to immediately and unconditionally release all political opponents, and any other citizens who have been detained solely for a political purpose. we need to condemn the use of excessive force and violation of the freedom of expression, and stress and request an independent and transparent investigation into this violating actions. looking at our own possibilities, the european union can also make a difference. we should take advantage of the political leverage provided by the development aid programme to enhance the defence of human rights in cameroon. additionally, the european union should also consider providing technical assistance and political support based on our experience in other conflict regions and development programmes in order to assist the development of a stronger democratic cameroonian society. this motion works for a better future for the all cameroon’s citizens and deserves all your support.
mr president, the recent conclusions of the european council include the new strategy for the next five years, which takes as its starting point the protection of citizens and freedoms. in particular, the european union is committed to upholding the rights and freedoms of its citizens as recognised in the treaties and to protecting them against existing and emerging threats. the respect for the rule of law, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is the supreme interest and the cornerstone of our civilization, which keeps us united against threats both internal and external. the european council and the european commission today, with its spokesman, mr perez, therefore recognise the need to respond to both erdoğan's irregularities and threats in the eastern mediterranean against the republic of cyprus with targeted sanctions and without delay. the rule of law in the european union is being judged there, and today all of us who believe in the european union declare ourselves cypriots.
mr president, mr tusk, mr šefčovič, the new beginning we are witnessing here today reflects the new alliance of the european centre, which is made up of the european people's party, the social democrats, renew europe and the greens. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against unemployment. despite the fact that unemployment in the eurozone is running at 7.5%, according to the latest data, countries like greece need a growth shock in order to move forward. we need jobs that combine digitizing the economy, tackling climate change, and through the circular economy, education and retraining. we must also safeguard the european values of liberal democracy without concessions and without compromises. in five years, we have no alibi. we're already experiencing the effects of climate change. we know people's fears about digital transformation. we know what is happening in hungary, in poland, in romania. we must discuss, agree and implement a policy which will maintain europe's reputation as the best place on earth to live.
mr president, mr tusk, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the newly elected members and, yes, this is a balancing act, i also congratulate mr tusk on at least two points: the length of his mandate and the fact that he had an eastern representation. but, mr president tusk, what is your legacy from the council? lack of transparency, total imbalance in the european institutions between east and west, and i'm not just talking about the leaders of the three institutions, i'm talking about the officials who work in the european institutions. please see the balance between the employees in the european institutions, between the eastern and western states. and what do you leave, mr. president? an inconsistent strategy for enlargement of the european union, a procedure that is not specific to democracy, namely, a majority in the council, and leave two countries punished - bulgaria and romania - although we have the resolution of parliament, mr president, and you have promised countless times that you will end your mandate with romania and bulgaria in schengen, because we meet all the technical conditions of 2011. and what do you leave, mr. president? you give the impression that everything is being arranged behind a curtain and that does not encourage european citizens to increase their trust in the european union. therefore, dear new colleagues, please understand that it is up to us to increase the importance and power of the european parliament. and mr president sassoli, i congratulate you on your election, but remember that we have some extremely difficult tasks ahead of us and please take account of parliament's position in negotiating with the two institutions.
mr president, mr tusk, european citizenship exists, as you have heard very well. the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights affirm this, and this european parliament - the only institution directly elected by the people - has been directly representing it for 40 years. only, at this point in the last election, it's the first time that voter turnout has risen above 50 percent after declining election after election. why would you do that? the motivating force is that when citizens vote, they have a decisive influence on the leadership of the european commission, on its presidency, and you have been unable to exercise your authority to preserve the candidates who have shown their faces to the electorate, not even the candidate frans timmermans, who has been vetoed by the states that were put in his place, precisely because of timmermans' defence of the rule of law and democracy, but this parliament has the final say not only in the investiture of the candidate for president of the commission but in that of each and every one of the candidates and the candidates for the commission, the twenty-eight. and it would be right to rigorously examine and reject those who do not commit themselves to the social, climate, digital challenge, but also to the migratory perspective, which must be changed to prevent it from being possible to criminalize those who save lives at sea - as has been done with the captain of the sea watch - or that the european union is not up to its humanitarian action to prevent actions to return to unsafe countries such as libya - where a refugee camp has been bombed with a criminal balance of forty fatalities.
mr president, delighted that you’re our new president and that’s about the only good news. to say i’m disappointed with the outcome of the council would be an understatement. mr tusk, president tusk, you know, under your watch we have widened the gap with the citizens of europe. i think it’s really bad for democracy and the level of engagement we’ve had this last time it’s going to be very, very hard to repeat. my concern is that, you know, those who are against the rule of law have won. the visegrád 4 have succeeded in morally bankrupting the entire european council. you all signed up to the spitzenkandidat process and you have reined back and i think if this house capitulates with that, this would be, you know, arm twisting, and negative forces will take over, not just in the uk as they have, and you can see the evidence here, but elsewhere as well, so it’s really important that this house sticks with the spitzenkandidat process and rejects the proposals of the council. (applause)
dear mr tusk, dear mr shevchevich, my criticism is directed at you. the package you're proposing is the result not of politics, but of a dirty, dishonest bargain and a deal without principles and without open faces. you, gentlemen, have deceived your constituents. you put up leading candidates, then you didn't put them to a vote. you broke your own rules. this is not a democracy, gentlemen, this is a substitution. your deal also leaves out central and eastern europe, and that's a shame, too. and now i'd like to address you, my distinguished colleagues. you're all against this deal, but you all voted for it yesterday. who are you lying to, yourself or your constituents? when you don't like the deal, you do something very simple - you nominate mr. weber for commission president and you vote for him. or mr. timmermans, and you vote for him, but you don't. you're against it here, but you're voting for the deal. this is a substitution, and this is a disgrace. and one more thing, my lords. you all talk about rules, none of you keep time. you're talking about women's rights, and when a lady in the back of the room expressed an opinion you didn't like, you cut her off. where's the truth in that? you may not agree with that opinion, but at least respect it. a moment ago you spoke of democracy, and yesterday you all joined together, the whole arc from the far left to the christian democrats, and prevented the democratic election of the vice-presidents of the ecr and of identity and democracy to the leadership. is this democracy? no, it's not a good one. when you don't like someone's opinion, you either ignore it or you suppress it. this is not a democracy. and one more thing. the ode to joy is a wonderful classical performance, but i have my own anthem, the bulgarian anthem, called "mila rodinod" and i'm good at it.
my fellow members of parliament! i think we've been enriched by some serious lessons learned in the last few weeks. the first is that experiments that ignore the will of the people are doomed to fail. it could not have happened otherwise, as it did in the end, that the largest party family, the people's party, which won the ep elections, would give the president of the european commission. i am also pleased that agreements which do not comply with the eu treaties are being destroyed. it is not possible to go beyond the treaties and upset the balance between the institutions. the pre-summit system is over, and i think it's right. thirdly, it is not worthwhile to try to force a group of countries to apply double standards to them. the union cannot be built against central europe, the visegrad countries. my fellow members of parliament! with the strategic agenda, we have a new program, unanimously approved by the heads of state and government. we'll have new leaders, a chance to start over. strong member states must cooperate along the lines laid down in the treaties, not overstepping them, respecting each other's constitutional identities, preserving the continent's christian roots and confronting those who want to change them through immigration. that is the europe we want to build together! thank you very much.
compromise, the word itself, means that in the end no one will be satisfied, some less, some more, but all are dissatisfied. we have offered a transparent, democratic principle to the leading candidates. it was not respected by the council. our colleagues from the socialists and the former liberals, as they called themselves, also failed to respect the fact that the party which won the most seats in the european parliament in the european elections should have their leading candidate for president of the european commission. that never happened. i think that mrs ursula von der leyen must now win the confidence of the political groups, present her views and we will then decide, because the european parliament is an independent, autonomous institution, the only one directly elected by european citizens and we must protect our dignity. the council cannot impose decisions which do not pass through a democratic and legitimate election in the european parliament. i should also say that i am proud to be bulgarian, proud to be european and i respect the symbols of europe, the european flag, the european anthem and i think that this should unite us, we should be together for a good, safe european home.
mr. president, president tusk, yes, the council is over. we read the results, we saw the state of the negotiations, and i would say that the whole thing was not the happiest. but we should definitely learn from all of this. when i say learn lessons, i definitely mean that there are still many things to be changed and corrected here in such a way that we expect the people who will seek our trust here to come here, present the programme, and we as parliament measure the passing of time for them. i think we no longer have time to talk about the division of seats, to trade seats, but to say what we will do in concrete terms over the next five years and to hold this parliament, which has offered to cooperate, to account for our doing everything with the commission to ensure that we do not fall behind america, china, but that we are world leaders. for that reason, let's finish the story of the division of the chairs, talk about concrete results and do it.
madam president, we condemn the use of two drilling vessels in the cypriot eez and the continuing violations in the aegean sea by the bourgeoisie of turkey, a nato member and strategic partner of the european union which has occupied 37% of cyprus for 45 years now. the enormous responsibilities of the european union are not washed away by phrased concerns and by measures which are part of the familiar bargain with the turkish bourgeoisie. the equal distances and self-restraint of the us, the eu and nato legitimize turkey's aggression and create a terrain for the dangerous co-management of the aegean and cypriot maritime zones. the new government of the new democracy in greece, on the ground laid by syriza, is accelerating its deeper involvement in the imperialist plans whose monopolies are destroying energy sources. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not left behind by the imperialist plans, but are able to become masters of the energy wealth through relations of friendship, solidarity and common struggle.
madam chairman, this month marks the 70th anniversary of the end of the first arab-israeli war. at that time, european countries, including france and czechoslovakia, also helped israel defend its independence and its young state. it was certainly because eu countries share values with israel, share respect for human rights and respect for democracy. it is one of the few countries where democracy really exists, and therefore the eu should have the best relationship with israel. i am speaking today because i am very concerned and very keen that the eu should also engage in dialogue with israel on the basis of an association agreement. as it does with other neighboring countries that have a similar agreement. how is it possible that the association council has not met since 2012? that's why i'm going to talk to mrs. mogherini about it tomorrow.
i am sure that europe has always had and must continue to have a strong spirit, a strong idea of openness, progress and tolerance. unfortunately, today, now, in 2019, full of technological innovation and achievements, including border control, our croatian neighbors, our friendly countries slovenia and italy are announcing the erection of new kilometers of wire fences on our borders. we are strongly against it because building new wire fences does not solve the problem of illegal migration. walls push walls, and fences push on one side of the fence on the other side. that's completely wrong. of course, we have to take care of people's safety, we have to take care of migrants as human beings and treat them humanely, but the wire does not solve the problem. what the european commission needs to do is to fight together against the smugglers and to tackle the problem at its source. i expect this to be resolved very urgently and soon.
the first conclusion i draw from this whole thing is that the spitzenkandidat phenomenon has failed, because mr weber is sitting there in his chair - you are listening to this - when he should have been sitting there. it is a small step for you, but a huge leap for the european parliament. so you're gone, and with that, the system has basically been given a state funeral and died on the boulevard of broken dreams. secondly, mrs von der leyen, your promises. you've been with us and you've made a lot of promises. then i hear about promises to the macrons, the socialists, the greens and so on. i compare them, and they're all different things. i'm thinking, how could that be? you read your list like a kind of oberlehrerin, but i wonder what those words, those promises are really worth. thirdly, the bundeswehr. the bundeswehr has suffered all kinds of abuses and conditions, but you blamed the top of the bundeswehr. you blame them for an attitude problem, but i wonder if you yourself do not have an attitude problem, because you are politically responsible for it. if something goes wrong in the european commission, where i myself worked for seven years, are you going to blame those people for an attitude problem? so my question is: what is your ability to look in the mirror?
the european union is a great example of a great european union, and it is a great example of a great european union. you represent everything that is wrong with europe, you represent centralization, you represent the deficit of democracy, you represent the economic hegemony of the centre over the periphery. we are talking about centralization. here, a few days ago, italy got its seventh president of the european parliament. i'd like to congratulate mr. sassoli. the seventh president of the european parliament! germany and france, correct me, had six, many countries in the center had more, while fifteen countries in the periphery, including croatia, had zero. it's a similar thing in the european council, it's a similar thing in the european commission. when will croatia or some other member, malta, slovakia, get their fair share, fair share? i never will! as far as democracy is concerned, you come here before us and you have no legitimacy. what election process did you participate in? who are you to the voters that you have the legitimacy to ask the representatives of these voters, of these two hundred million, for legitimacy? the deal in brussels is unfair, unjust. it's undemocratic, it's arranged behind closed doors, and you bring us here before the act is over. once again, the old powerful members at the centre have agreed: the french will take the central bank, the germans will take the commission, belgium will take the council, for the periphery again nothing! you talk about syria, how you took a syrian boy into your home. you're doing great. but with the other hand, you talk about nato, a permanent generator of instability and an imperialist force that does not serve peace. croatia has no benefit from such a relationship, only damage. it can be done fairly or not at all. you won't have my vote.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs von der leyen on her inspired and inspiring speech, on the vision, conviction and european ambition she has shown here. you will have our support, of course, but i would also like to make two observations: the first is that i am sorry that, as a doctor and with a particular sensitivity to health, you have never referred to the master plan which the epp proposed in its campaign to fight cancer. it is a very big ambition that we have in our group and that we hope the next commission will be able to fulfil. that said, i was going to ask a question, and this is the central question for me, since it has not been touched by anyone yet and it had a simple phrase in its speech on the mff, the financial perspective for 2021-2027. in fact, what we have seen in cohesion policies is that the proposal the commission has put forward is unfair. just to give you an example: a country like italy, which is on the european average, is up 6% in cohesion, a country like croatia is down 6%; a country like finland, which is well above the european average, is up 5%; a country like lithuania is down 23%. i am talking about neighbouring countries which we can compare to see how unfair the cohesion strategy is that comes out of the commission proposal and why? because the commission cut 45% from the cohesion fund without explanation and the cohesion fund was balancing the erdf and the european social fund. this hurts the poorest countries. there are many priorities in the european union, but, mrs von der leyen, the question of cohesion and convergence between the member states is central. he called the unit here. if the mff is not revised in the direction of the solution and the position adopted by the european parliament, i can say that there will be problems of cohesion, that there will be problems of unity between the various member states.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, you have delivered a clever service, you have ticked many boxes, but not all, since the uncertainty remains on many subjects, notably the cfp or agriculture, not to mention that you have avoided all figures. you are also here because you have been appointed through a particularly questionable process, following a series of small arrangements between the representatives of the member states, who are not present to support you in their chairs today. the council has not taken any account of the voice of the citizens who have subscribed to the principle of the spitzenkandidaten as representatives of their political will. the council's role as a pawn is also marginalizing the role of the european parliament, making it a junior european partner. just one example to illustrate the vagueness of your intervention: on the questions of migration and asylum, it is not at all enough to hear you say that you want to reform for the tenth time the asylum package which has been reformed and over-reformed, until it is made illegible and until it is blocked. i would have liked to hear you speak of a major rescue operation at sea, which would have also defended the dignity of the european union in the face of the divisions in the council. because, in the end, that is what your speech lacks: the testimony that you will be in the fight and that you will change the direction of europe.
mr president, i must say a few sincere words to madam von der leyen. i was rather critical of your nomination. i was rather critical of you becoming the president of the commission. but then, the process we had, actually made me feel respected as a member of the european parliament, as a representative of my swedish voters. for that i condone you. but also for the respect that you showed our group, the renew europe group, the group that grew most in the european parliament and that defeated the populists throughout europe – thank you for that respect, which is also why you will have my vote today. because you showed a sincere interest in what parliament does think. also, i remember what the procedure was like five years ago, when i don’t think many colleagues felt that they had a proper intervention with commission president juncker. we had proper interventions with you and you did listen. for that i respect you. but we will also hold you responsible on your mechanism on initiatives. for example, an animal welfare framework law has been asked for by this parliament by a majority of about 80% of the members for five years. nothing has happened so far. we will come back to it as soon as you have your college in place. we will recall that request and we will hold you accountable to it.
mr president, those wanting to stop the uk’s disastrous crash out of the eu should feel greatly encouraged by dr von der leyen’s comments about brexit. dr von der leyen, i was delighted to hear you call yourself a remainer to our group, and to say that you would be willing to give us the extra time we may need to resolve this deeply damaging episode in our country’s history. but on a range of issues, from tax and trade to climate and protecting life in our countryside, there is a gulf between your views and the green agenda for change. most importantly, i cannot vote for you because the appointments process that led us here is a step away from closer engagement with citizens and from democracy. the backroom deal done in the council explicitly reassured the far right in the countries of central europe, where the rule of law is under threat and democratic standards are at risk. it’s so disappointing that the election of the commission president will depend on the votes of the far right, rather than those of a strong pro-european majority that could have been achieved by offering the radical change that green voters demand. (applause)
mr president, i would like to say to dr von der leyenthat i am greatly disturbed by her attachment to the political project of a european army and european strategic autonomy. this will inevitably lead to a transatlantic divide and undermine nato, and can only encourage our enemies. but let me focus on our most critical issue, as far as the uk is concerned. dr von der leyen, we welcome your statement of respect for the decision of the british people to leave the european union and of the need to work closely with britain in the future. goodwill on the part of brussels has so far been rather missing. but we are disappointed that all you seem to offer is an extension of our withdrawal date: this is hardly ambitious. instead, may we suggest you use your influence before you take office to urge amendment or reinterpretation of those aspects of the withdrawal agreement that are clearly unacceptable to the uk. this wouldn’t take a lot; solutions are there. in europe, as they say, nothing is possible and everything is possible. britain will leave the european union on 31 october. let’s ensure this is on good terms, without acrimony, to provide the basis for a strong positive relationship in the future, fully respectful of the expressed desire of the british people for control of their own borders and their own laws.
mr president, the basis for development and progress, but also for the survival of the european union, is equality and the rule of law. equality and the rule of law are primarily reflected in the way representatives are elected. of the 130 representatives in the european parliament, 20 of the seats of president and vice-president went to germany. croatia and slovenia have zero, which is zero percent. the european parliament's rules of procedure also require that such seats be allocated on the basis of geographical affiliation. so the rule of law is also being violated. that's not acceptable. so we have germany with twenty representatives, which is contrary to equality and represents supremacy. and now, we still have to elect the president of the european commission from germany. this is absolutely unacceptable because it is not a europe of equality and such a europe calls the european union into question.
mr president, i would like to ask ms mogherini a very straight question. there was recently an attempted military coup in venezuela: why have you not condemned it? are you in favour of some military coups, or some military dictatorships? why not? i have a second question. now that there is finally some reconciliation progress, under the auspices of norway, why such an aggressive stance? why such an aggressive resolution? why are you not giving dialogue a chance? why are you throwing fuel on the fire? and my third question is: if a guaidó were to appear in another country, where very severe violations of human rights are happening, where they are cutting dissidents into pieces, as in saudi arabia – if a guaidó were to appear and proclaim himself the president of saudi arabia and the sponsor of democracy – would you recognise him? no. let’s be frank, ms mogherini: the oil in saudi arabia is secured, whereas in venezuela it’s not secured.
mr. chairman, i have come to condemn imperialism, to condemn militarism and to advocate for pacifism, for peace, a peaceful and democratic solution in venezuela. here we can read about human rights violations in venezuela. i'm asking you a question. why don't we talk about human rights violations where we don't control oil? why don't we talk about the human rights violations in saudi arabia? because the establishment controls the oil there, they've made a deal with them, they can do whatever they want with them. we are not talking about women's rights in saudi arabia, we are not talking about human rights violations in saudi arabia, there is no resolution. where does this hypocrisy come from and how long does this hypocrisy last? i also want to condemn imperialism. the united states, its establishment, was republican, democratic, it always had the same or similar policy towards the countries of central america, an imperialist policy. this is not the first time the united states has interfered or tried to interfere in the situation in venezuela. we must condemn the policy of sanctions, coups, dictatorships. but most importantly, we must let the people of venezuela democratically and peacefully resolve this issue and remove the imperialist claws from venezuela and other countries.
madam president, how many thousands of deaths and how many court decisions will it take for the member states and the european commission to set up a genuine european search and rescue operation in the mediterranean? and not like sofia, which i said again is a naval operation but is kept for a few months without boats, which must probably, i say again, be european humour. so let's take it the other way around. the main argument we have heard today against this type of operation is that it would favour air travel. what this means is that saving people who are willing to die to get to europe and welcoming them with dignity will bring even more people. but, honestly, is there no one left to risk their lives in the mediterranean since rescues in the mediterranean have been criminalized or absent? the answer is no, and there are just - if we can say - more deaths in 2018, 2,275, or one person for every 51 crossings. only a strong european search and rescue mission at sea will save lives and the honour of the european union. and while i am speaking of honour, it is also the union's dignity to enforce the law on decent disembarkation and reception. let's just get this over with, case by case and short-term solutions.
madam president, we are talking about humanitarian aid and we are talking about humanitarian law. that is why, when italian ports closed the access to ngos rescuing migrants about a year ago today, they were violating international humanitarian law and international maritime law. this year, more than 1 100 people have died in the mediterranean and another 10 000 have been intercepted and forced back to libya. in libya, to refugee camps which do not have the minimum conditions and which, as happened on 14 july, are bombed, such as the tayura camp, where more than 60 migrants were killed. the united nations has asked the european union to evacuate these migrant camps. and not only have we not done that, we continue to force intercepted migrants back into libya. ladies and gentlemen, let us not make a mistake: the disappearance or disposal of ships in the mediterranean, the arrest of their captains, do not reduce the number of immigrants; they only reduce the chances of saving their lives. let us not be mistaken: to fight the mafias, legislation is needed; the council's migration package must be unblocked; safe routes must be established; humanitarian visas must be introduced; and the member states must jointly fulfil their obligations of reception, distribution and resettlement. as long as the legal paralysis, the council's ability to paralyse the asylum and refuge package, continues, we will continue to pile up bodies in the mediterranean.
colleague, i must remind you that if you have one minute you can’t speak for one minute 45 seconds, because someone else will lose the speaking time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the league, as the italian people, we will never stop, we will never tire of saying stop to illegal immigration, say no to the business of human trafficking, and a healthy european institution should listen to the constructive criticism coming from italy, one of the six founding countries of this europe. and yet this europe, a europe sick of economic speculation, continues to make wrong choices and feeds the conflict, feeds the dead. we want a europe which is able to cure, which is able to cure the problems of this europe and not one which feeds the epidemic of these problems with insane policies of welcoming immigration and islamic recruitment. we will continue to fight, we will never be your accomplices in the criminal project of impoverishing the people.
madam president, commissioner, for five years we have been having this conversation in this room, in this very room, for five years we have been hearing the same nonsense, the same general talk, the same empty talk, the same empty talk, the policy in this area has been a complete failure, mr commissioner. and now i turn to you, dear colleagues, communists, socialists, green, pink, the colleague with the yellow hat who seems to have left the room, etc. until yesterday you wanted the rule of law, you wanted to punish poland, hungary, because they were against the rule of law. today you want to break the law. where's the truth in this, reverend? when are you honest with your constituents? either you want international law and law enforcement or you don't. when you support traffickers, you are violating international law and law. there's no difference between the traffickers you support and the somali pirates, for example, think about that. there will be no casualties in the mediterranean if you do not support the traffickers. there will be no casualties if your mps do not board illegal ships and violate the sovereign borders of countries like italy, spain, bulgaria and greece. countries have borders that must be respected, migration must be zero. and since i heard a provocation a little while ago, i'll tell you colleagues, it's useful to read history of europe. europe is a christian civilization, it has its christian roots and christian values, and when you are a guest, it is polite to act like a host.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the civil war in libya has added new horrors to the plight of refugees in the torture camps there. in one recent case, guards used force of arms to force people to stay in the camp as they tried to escape the next missile strike. shortly thereafter, a missile struck and killed 53 refugees. what is it that needs to happen in the light of these incidents for the european commission to review in depth cooperation with the libyan coastguard and even consider terminating it, and finally evacuate the refugees in the libyan camps? the latter is what the iom and the united nations are calling for. how much more clear does it have to be that rescued people cannot be returned to libya? instead of continuing to provide eu funds to militias, i call for an immediate european civil rescue programme at sea. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's ports are finally reopened. that is what international law requires. for weeks now, italy's far-right interior minister has been waging a smear campaign against the sea-watch rescue organization. his intention is to make what is right seem wrong. but our solidarity goes to carola rackete and all the other sea rescue organisations. we must act now! the people who are fleeing from wars and political persecution, from poverty and misery, must be treated fairly and on the basis of human rights. (loud protests from the right side of the house)
dear colleagues, good afternoon to all. as i am chairing the european parliament's plenary for the first time, i would like to say that i am honoured to have been elected your second vice-president and that i am grateful for your confidence. i will work with everyone to strengthen the european parliament and european democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, saving human lives is a moral imperative, not just a legal obligation. according to unicef data, in the first three months of 2019, some 16,000 migrants and refugees had already reached europe via the mediterranean migration routes, and although this figure is down compared to the same period in 2018, the share of children and adolescents in total arrivals has increased from 20 to 25%. this is why, in a departure from the previous speeches, i would like to focus on the need to ensure maximum protection for the most vulnerable migrants: children and adolescents; in particular, unaccompanied children and adolescents are at greater risk of abuse, violence and exploitation by unscrupulous traffickers. with the intergroup on the rights of the child, which i had the honour of chairing in the last parliament, we have repeatedly stressed that all children must be protected and assisted, and in particular those who have experienced tragic situations, such as the young migrants who arrive on our shores. and first-time arrivals, like italy, my country, cannot be left alone. the migration crisis must be managed at european level. the amendment of the dublin regulation, the establishment of legal and safe channels of immigration, the fight against human traffickers are just some of the measures which are indispensable to combine legality and solidarity, and to ensure the protection of the rights of the child, as laid down in the un convention, whose 30th anniversary will be celebrated on 20 november, are the responsibility of all the countries of the union. because children's rights have no boundaries and should have no boundaries.
mr president, defending the rule of law is a priority for the finnish presidency. a good way of demonstrating this is to put the many states and governments who are breaking international asylum and maritime law in the face of the mediterranean tragedy in their place. rescues are being made difficult, initiatives such as that of the aita mari, a tuna vessel converted into a rescue boat, are being blocked. this initiative has brought together basque and andalusian citizens, demonstrating that european citizenship is solidary, and suggesting that local and regional institutions, which are the ones who really welcome and care, can bring that experience to those who turn people into numbers, who treat rescuers as criminals. i hope that this breath of fresh air, proposals such as the basque share, will reach the council's tables. it is hopeful that ursula von der leyen, who took in a syrian refugee, will be a witness, as president of the commission, to the values that should unite us all.
the mediterranean has become one of the places where the greatest number of people have died in recent years, not only in europe but also, unfortunately, in the wider world. in 2017 and 2018, about 8,000 people lost their lives in this sea, a sea that was supposed to be a sea of hope, but it became a sea of death, their lives. that means we're on a date. we all made appointments together. the member states of europe, the commission, society, we have been appointed and that is why we need much greater coordination, determination, much greater cooperation between the member states and the commission and a clear strategy and action and shared responsibility. the state to which migrants want to go cannot be solely responsible for them, and that is why i call on the european commission to act quickly and jointly to find a just and humane solution, taking into account the safety of its citizens, but solutions that do not justify the "use of a little force", as the president of the republic of croatia put it. i condemn such a statement because croatia, which i represent, is committed to humanity and to protecting the dignity of every human being.
mr president, i am glad that we are dealing with this important subject, unlike other issues such as brexit. i think it's important to show the public that we're also looking at practical issues. i will not repeat what has already been said, but i would like to emphasize that we have a tool that we can use in the context of forest protection, namely our european funds. i think we should help to plant forests and trees in those member states where they are needed, and of course also to seal up land, which has not yet been emphasized here. our aid should go to municipalities, regions, but also to associations, such as associations of private and municipal owners, this is all possible, within the czech republic there is such a very strong association. we should also support research against the very pests that are destroying our forests. we have a whole range of these tools. i think it is good to use them, and i am prepared to help by voting in this house.
mr. chairman, thank you, mr. president, mr. commissioner, we see what's been happening in the amazon rainforest these past few weeks. of course, it is the result, first of all, of negligence, that it is terrible, that it needs to be reacted and of course, very sharply and very strongly acted in that direction. but we should always start from ourselves, see how we can do something good at home. for that reason, of course, we have to keep in mind that pollution knows no boundaries and that climate change knows no boundaries either. nature can do without man, but man cannot do without nature, and that's clear. for that reason, i am calling for more money in the next fiscal period for fire roads, for afforestation and for the treatment of diseased forests. that way, we'll be able to invest in our healthy present and future with complete confidence. and that's what we should do.
i would like to ask the president-in-office to discuss the rule of law and democracy in third countries in this parliament. however, i invite you all to consider the rule of law that does not exist in the republic of croatia. in the republic of croatia 94% of citizens in a public opinion poll think that the croatian government is corrupt, 76% of croatian citizens think that we have a bad and extremely bad judiciary. unfortunately, the monitoring we had when we entered the european union was not enough. i've been in the croatian judiciary for 21 years. i have been a judge of the commercial court for nine years and i can personally confirm to you that croatian society is an extremely corrupt society and that we must first of all resolve, with the involvement of all the institutions of the european union, including the european parliament, the rule of law and corruption in our european union and then we will have full right to discuss the rule of law in third countries.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, thank you very much. mr picula, you have described the situation in hong kong in detail and you have given a little historical overview of how the integration of hong kong into china has gone, but given the whole issue of the rule of law and the importance of china as a trade, political and any other partner of the european union, given the increasing chinese investments in the territory of the european union and also in the republic of croatia, how do you see, if you can summarize, the future relations between the european union and china in view of all these problems that you yourself mentioned?
madam president, thirty years ago, at about this time, a little later, the berlin wall fell. and the fall of the berlin wall and the fall of the criminal communist regime really opened up new perspectives for all of europe, and especially this central and eastern europe to be fully integrated into the european union. great progress has been made since then. and we can truly say that the european union and its eastward expansion have been a complete success. what has certainly contributed to this is the european cohesion policy and the european funds. based on the principle of solidarity, the european funds from the european budget have indeed made it possible for the countries of central and eastern europe to undergo a major transformation and to catch up in development to a large extent with those of the western and northern member states. unfortunately, we are now in a situation where, again, in some ways, these differences between eastern and western europe are being highlighted. we are in a situation where they are talking about reducing and proposing a certain reduction in cohesion policy. i don't think we should go that way. i think that cohesion policy is a success of the european union, i think that cohesion policy is what has made it possible for those who really need it, those who are the least developed, to get adequate resources, to give them an equal chance and the opportunity to compete with those who are the most developed, and i think that in this sense we should go further. let us not deny cohesion policy, let us work for equality for all in the european union, let us promote the principle of solidarity, because without it the european union and european integration have no future.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that it has been two years since the report on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) that i was rapporteur for passed this parliament. we called for three things: raising ambition for mainstreaming sdgs throughout the institutions of the european union and, crucially, status reports on how far we are from delivering on the sdgs by 2030. i have to say that, in these two years, it’s been somewhat disappointing. i don’t think that failure for action is a personal one. i think it’s systemic. i think we have to look very carefully at how the european union’s institutions are set up to deliver and mainstream those sdgs, which is why i was actually pleasantly surprised by the commission president-designate’s comments that we need to have the sdgs mainstreamed throughout all directorates-general (dgs) and the responsibility given to the new commissioners to deliver just that. but, of the three scenarios that were outlined – let me be very clear here – only scenario one, the first scenario, will get us to the position we need to be in. it’s the only realistic scenario to deliver on the targets and to create a sustainable future. we have to show in this place a strong leadership role, which is so desperately lacking on the world stage, and we have to move on from the idea that the sdgs are something to be done in a tick—box exercise at the end of the day when all of the standard business is done. commissioner, i want to thank you personally for your commitment during these years, but please, let’s not overlook the systemic failures and let’s get it right in this next mandate.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i am very pleased that we can speak today on this important, i would say, crucial subject for our present and future. when we talk about our goal, it must be very clear. to be the world leader in the fight against climate change, not to be second or third, but the first, the world leader. and to do that, we, as the european parliament, as the representatives of the european citizens, are asking for a significant increase in the 2020 budget, and 2021-2027 budget, to fight climate change, to alternative energy sources, but at the same time to create smart, new, green jobs for investing in new technology. we have a chance, not to look for an excuse, but a way to make it happen. we have a chance to be a world leader, and i'm sure we can take that chance. let us not be driven by economic greed like some of the world's leaders, but by responsibility and long-term vision. and let's remember, nature can do without man, but man cannot do without nature.
madam president, we are here today to discuss the financial establishment of europe. last time we discussed the political establishment, but what's the point if mrs. christine lagarde isn't here? we're talking about the most important position in the european union, the head of the central bank. she's not here. however, i will ask her the same question i asked mrs von der leyen last time, whether the european union, structured as it is, will survive the next debt crisis, the next economic crisis. but she doesn't have to answer me. i already know the answer to that question. we watched her as the head of the imf, as part of the trio as she worked in greece. we've seen austerity measures, we've seen pension cuts, we've seen people not having access to medicine, we've seen the destruction of an entire society. and now, in this hellish cycle of the eurozone, which will burst again as soon as the next crisis comes, you want to push my croatia too. it won't work! what we talked about earlier, and it's very much connected to this topic of financial systems, is the economy, or the transition to green policies. what drives economic policy? the financial system. so to go green, we have to reform the financial system. we're talking about a green transition, where there's a monetary transition, we need new people with new ideas, and christine lagarde is not a new man with new ideas, she's the establishment. it's business as usual and that duchess of the savings will not get my support.
mr president, 43 days ago the indian government revoked articles 370 and 35a of the indian constitution, removing at a stroke the guarantee of jammu and kashmir’s autonomy. we’ve seen a huge surge in the number of troops deployed there, a total communications blackout, curfews and house arrests. we hear continually of violations of human rights, including the use of shotguns against civilians. take the case of asrar ahmed khan. despite denials by the indian government, medical records released by the hospital present clear evidence that he died as a result of a shotgun pellet to the head. i visited azad kashmir last year and heard accounts of even infants being fired at with shotguns. there can never ever be any excuse for killing, maiming and blinding small children. i really cannot understand why a great nation like india, which prides itself on the strength of its democracy, behaves in this way. india aspires to be a permanent member of the un security council. events of the past month are not the actions of a credible candidate.
mr president, the european parliament has a reputation for debating problems of flagrant violations of human rights in latitudes that have never known democracy, not even a trace of it. that is not the case in india. it is, as has been said, a constitutional democracy, with its 1950 constitution, and it happens to be the most populous democracy in the world. it integrates the diversity of a highly complex federal order and has guaranteed the coexistence of different minorities, including the muslim minority, in a country with a majority of other religions. in the case of jammu and kashmir, therefore, i think that the european parliament is right to exercise prudent restraint in assessing a suspension of autonomy, guaranteed by the constitutional order itself, in accordance with the constitution itself - article 370 - and in so far as it is also making a major effort to prevent the radicalisation of islamism that lives and beats within the enormous complexity of the indian puzzle.
mr president, i really welcome the words of the minister in her introductory remarks. we know we have a divided house but i think the position taken by the high representative in expressing concern for human rights is the right balance. india is a great country, a great democracy, but you can’t ignore the fact that kashmir is a disputed territory, recognised as such by the united nations. it’s effectively been under military occupation with an army that’s been allowed to maim and murder without any proper supervision or jurisdiction. and communication bans, loss of any sort of sense of self—determination must feed a sense of injustice in kashmir. it is because we are friends of india that we have to ask this great democracy – which we know, where prime minister modi has the support of his country; he knows there is majority support for the actions he’s taken – but we have to question whether this is the right course of action and whether it will result in positive benefits. so i have to ask the minister: words have been very good, will there be any actions to follow them up?
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this exchange of views was very useful and timely. i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions, comments and suggestions. i can only conclude that the eu will continue to monitor the situation closely, with our key focus on de-escalating a situation involving two nuclear powers. we must make every effort needed to avoid an escalation of the conflict.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu (2019/2817 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, we have once more gathered to discuss the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. it is an unfortunate situation and many citizens and businesses continue to suffer from the uncertainty caused by brexit. in july, the uk got a new government and a new prime minister. unfortunately, it is increasingly clear that this has not helped to clarify the situation or the uk’s negotiation position. when it comes to the most difficult questions such as the irish border, the uk has not tabled any new concrete proposals yet. furthermore, opinions in the parliament in london remain divided. only the firm rejection of a no-deal brexit has been able to attract the majority. still, the uk government is insisting on its red lines. as the deadline of 31 october is fast approaching, we are faced with more, rather than less, uncertainty. this rather bleak situation should, however, not distract us from our priority, which remains an orderly withdrawal to put an end to the uncertainty caused by brexit. i hope that we can still achieve an orderly brexit. this is why we have asked the uk to put forward concrete details and operational ideas regarding what appears to be the main stumbling block, namely how to ensure the absence of a hard border on the island of ireland, while respecting the good friday agreement and protecting the integrity of the single market. the latest developments in westminster and the call for a further extension make it very difficult to predict how things will unfold. we have to acknowledge that currently, a no-deal on 31 october is a quite likely outcome, not least because the uk government...(cheers from certain quarters)keeps on repeating they are ready to leave without a deal. therefore, preparedness efforts have to be stepped up and measures finalised quickly at eu and national level in close cooperation among member states and with the commission, building on the last package of measures tabled by the commission and on those already adopted. these new legislative activities at this early stage of the new institutional cycle will add to an already heavy agenda. we are confident that by working together we can deliver. i’m encouraged in this respect by the speed at which our two institutions were able to reach agreement on the previous brexit-related proposals. the presidency, with your cooperation, is determined to facilitate the adoption of the last batch of contingency measures in good time. while the point of departure for the future relationship will largely depend on whether the uk decides to leave with or without a deal, we will in any scenario need to address our fundamental priorities with the uk: safeguarding citizens’ rights, honouring the uk’s financial obligations resulting from its membership of the eu, and providing an insurance to preserve the integrity of the single market, the level playing field and the stability on the island of ireland. in the meantime, this uncertainty and the tensions it generates are further testing our unity and resolve. it is therefore all the more necessary, on the one hand, to resist the temptation of bilateral deals at sectoral or national level and, on the other hand, to reflect our common purpose in the swift adoption of the necessary contingency measures. let me conclude by noting the large degree of convergence that exists between your draft resolution and the priorities of the council. this is a clear illustration of the commonality of purpose of our two institutions as regards brexit. so thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to this discussion.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your invitation. it is always a pleasure for me to be able to address you, to speak before parliament and to speak with parliament. over the past five years, the european commission has always been able to count on the foresight, cooperation and support of your assembly. this also applies to the work we have done together on the question of the withdrawal of the united kingdom. i know that this meeting is still open. she's staying at work. michel barnier and i had lunch with prime minister johnson on monday. you will not be surprised to hear that the prime minister has told us that the uk still wants a deal, but also that in any case the uk will leave the european union on 31 october, with or without a deal. it's called nihil novum sub sole. this means that the risk of a no deal remains very real. (applause and cheers from certain quarters) these are my best friends and groupies dont be surprised that they are shouting! this means, as i said, that the risk of a no deal remains very real. this may be the choice of the uk government, but it will never be the choice of the european union. that is why i prefer to focus on what we can do to reach an agreement which i believe is still desirable and still possible. (applause from the centre and the right) you have to applaud, no? you also won't be surprised that the main issue is the backstop. everyone has heard of it, but not everyone remembers why it was agreed between the 27 and the uk government. the backstop is an operational solution to a practical problem, the brexit problem for the island of ireland. this problem would not arise if the uk government had not decided to leave the european union. the backstop has three objectives: to avoid a physical border on the island of ireland, to preserve the integrity of the single market and, above all, ireland's place in that market, and to protect north-south cooperation and the all-island economy, a key element for peace and stability in ireland, enshrined in the good friday agreement. i told prime minister johnson that i have no emotional attachment to the safety net. but i made it clear that i remain deeply committed to the goals it serves. that is why i have asked the british prime minister to make concrete, operational and written proposals on alternative ways of achieving these objectives. until such proposals are put forward, i cannot look you in the eye and say that real progress has been made. but what i can say, contrary to many reports, particularly in the british press, is that the talks we had were friendly, constructive and partly positive. the commission is ready to work every day, from morning to evening - with some interruptions, however - to find solutions at technical and political level. i'm not sure we'll succeed, we have very little time left, but i'm sure we have to try. i asked the british prime minister to specify the alternative arrangements he could envisage and i proposed to politicise, in the noble sense of the word, the negotiations between the european union and the united kingdom, by instructing my friend michel barnier, the british prime minister and the minister responsible for brexit, to take the negotiations themselves, so that they do not remain at the purely technical level. in july 2016, the 27 agreed that it would be a mistake to focus all our energy on brexit. we have agreed to build a stronger union at 27, focusing on ways to improve the daily lives of our citizens. two months later, i spoke before this parliament to deliver my state of the union address and to present my ideas and proposals for the future. this speech, which was exceptional, was welcomed by all the leaders of the european union meeting in bratislava and inspired the leaders' programme. that means the 27 members of the european union have spent two and a half years negotiating with the uk looking for ways to arrange our divorce. during this time, the european union has shown great unity of purpose and solidarity with the member states most affected. this unity is our most precious resource and our greatest asset. it will continue to guide me over the next few weeks, and i am sure it will continue to guide this house also in the future. (applause) i would like to thank you.
chief negotiator. mr president, i would like to greet each and every one of you, madam minister, and thank you for allowing me, alongside president juncker and in addition to what he has said very clearly, to return in this brief speech to the two key points of our current discussions with the british, the question of ireland and northern ireland, and also the question of the future relationship, which is at least as important since a partnership with this great country, an ally, a neighbour, which will remain the united kingdom, will have to be rebuilt in another way. president juncker said that the basic demand of the british johnson government was the abolition of the backstop, or at least its replacement. you know, the uk and the european union, the european union and the uk agreed in november 2018, almost a year ago, on this backstop. it has therefore been approved by the 28 heads of state or government and has received the very strong support of your parliament. and why, ladies and gentlemen, is this subject so fundamental to all of us? simply and seriously because it is in ireland that brexit is creating the most problems. the biggest risk of brexit is in ireland. it's the only place where the uk has a land border with the european union. there is a specific political situation which we are all aware of, linked to an often tragic history, a specific situation today with the good friday agreement, of which the united kingdom and ireland, in particular, are guarantors. the reason for our insistence on this point, as jean-claude juncker said, is not ideological, it never was. it is entirely pragmatic: through the so-called backstop, we have a safety net, a kind of insurance that allows us to preserve in all circumstances the three requirements mentioned by the president of the commission. we do not want the return of a physical border to ireland, we want to protect the good friday agreement, the belfast agreement, in all its dimensions. we must preserve the integrity of the single market, our single market, and finally we want to maintain the all-island economy, the north-south cooperation, as framed in the good friday agreement. i would also remind you that the mapping exercise we carried out with the british authorities shows how much this north-south cooperation is regulated by law, supported by european policies and budgets from the outset. the new uk government has therefore, again this monday in luxembourg, explained to us the provisions of the backstop which it does not like. that's not enough to explain why we should get rid of the backstop. we, on our part, simply and seriously, need legally operational solutions in the withdrawal agreement to precisely address each of the problems, to prevent each of the risks created by brexit. and it is on these objectives that we had clearly agreed with the theresa may government. i am just taking a concrete example, which i know well enough to have been minister for agriculture and fisheries a few years ago. ladies and gentlemen, any living animal, any product, including food, that comes into northern ireland from britain enters not only the island of ireland, the irish market, but enters the polish, luxembourgish, german or danish market, mechanically, immediately. and we need to exercise control, to protect consumers, to preserve food safety, to prevent any risk of animal disease. we have no short memory and this is also in the interest of the citizens and consumers of northern ireland, as well as those of the whole island, as well as consumers in the rest of the united kingdom. so behind this backstop, i say calmly and again, there are very concrete guarantees that we need and that all citizens on the island of ireland need for peace and stability, for life and the daily economic relationship on the island and of course, i say again, for the health and safety of the 27 consumers, the safety of products, the protection of national budgets. this is also the purpose of the checks at each of the external borders of the single market, which we must ensure in any event. i hear, we hear the questions, the remarks of the british prime minister on whether the backstop is democratic or undemocratic. it is, of course, up to the british government itself to ensure that the northern irish institutions support the withdrawal agreement which it will sign on behalf of the whole of the united kingdom. we have already made several provisions in the withdrawal agreement, including the involvement of its institutions and the various committees in the implementation of the backstop should it ever be activated. on this and other issues, i repeated after president juncker that we remain ready to listen to any british proposal, to work on it day and night, as soon as that proposal makes progress. the other key issue, and i will end on this point, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is our common ambition for the future relationship of what we have called the strategic partnership that we must build or rebuild with the united kingdom after brexit. this is the subject of the second document, alongside the withdrawal treaty, the so-called political declaration, which was agreed with the united kingdom last november and which opens the way to this very broad partnership in economic cooperation, sectoral cooperation, judicial and police cooperation, cooperation in defence and foreign policy. the economic part of the partnership is based on a free trade agreement, but the current text leaves the door open to greater ambition if there is a common will. and we obviously have this desire to be as ambitious as possible with the united kingdom in our future economic relationship, for example through a customs union. this economic relationship must of course be accompanied by guarantees of a level playing field. i would also like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the internal market for the last twenty years. the british government, and this is the point i want to stress, wishes today to reiterate the commitments made by theresa may in this area of a level playing field. ladies and gentlemen, with a large country so close to us, as important as the united kingdom, which carries out just over half of its trade with us, with the single market, an ambitious economic partnership requires a common basis of rules of the game. so i want to say this to make it clear to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, to everyone, that the level of ambition of a future free trade agreement that we will have to negotiate and conclude with the united kingdom in any event, that level of ambition will clearly depend on the guarantees that we will have put on paper together in social, environmental, competition or state aid matters. ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to talk about these two subjects which are currently under discussion with the government of boris johnson. but we do not lose sight of the big picture. i would simply like to recall in conclusion why we wanted from the outset an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom, which is much better than no deal, and we know what we mean when we talk about no deal, and i recommend that everyone not underestimate the consequences for the united kingdom, of course first of all, and also for us, of no deal. we want this agreement to protect the rights of four and a half million european citizens in the united kingdom and britons in each of our 27 member states, and this withdrawal bill secures those rights, all those rights. we want to secure the future for those who carry out projects in the territories that benefit from european funds. that is why we have secured with the united kingdom that everything decided at 28 is paid for until the end at 28. we want to ensure, as i said, peace and stability in ireland and, at the end of the road, which is quite a long road, as you see, we want to create the conditions of trust necessary to build our future relationship as outlined in the political declaration. if the united kingdom leaves without an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that all these issues do not disappear. we have dealt with them in the withdrawal agreement, but if there is no withdrawal agreement, all these issues are there. the question of the security of the citizens, of peace in ireland, of the protection of the internal market in ireland, as well as the question of the budget, and we will have to settle them in any case, prior to a future partnership with the united kingdom. the consequences of brexit are not theoretical. you have often heard me say here in this house that they were innumerable and often underestimated in human and social terms, in financial and budgetary terms, in legal and technical terms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. almost three years after the british referendum, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not a question of pretending to negotiate. it is our responsibility to pursue this process with determination, with sincerity. we will continue to do so in permanent consultation, in full transparency, with the 27 governments on whose behalf we are negotiating, madam minister, and i thank the presidency for this. we will continue to do so in dialogue and in full transparency with your brexit steering group, to which i am grateful, and with all the groups and committees of your parliament. that will always be, has always been, will remain our attitude in this extraordinary and complex negotiation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, after the brexit referendum three years ago, the brexiteers claimed, ‘the eu is finished. the eu doesn’t work’. over three years later, the eu is strong, is alive, is united. it knows exactly what it wants. at the moment, it is not britain that is leaving the eu, but jobs and business leaving the uk. (heckling) one—third of british businesses are planning to leave, or are already leaving, britain. everybody here regrets – well, not everybody, but mainly we regret here in the plenary – the brexit outcome, but i must tell you, during the election campaign it was a powerful argument to tell the europeans that it’s stupid and it creates a lot of uncertainty if you call the european union into question. that’s why you helped us a lot to convince europeans that this is a stupid approach. (applause) monday’s meeting with michel barnier, jean—claude juncker and prime minister johnson was again a missed opportunity to clarify things, and to bring new proposals to the table. and the parliament where we can discuss the current state of play is the european parliament, not the commons, unfortunately. brexiteers claimed that westminster would ‘take back control’, and now they’ve shut it down. is this the idea of democracy, of tomorrow in great britain, i have to ask the brexiteers? ladies and gentlemen, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! eine grundsätzliche überlegung geht mir durch den kopf, die mich bewegt, und zwar die überlegung, dass das volk durch den premierminister vertreten wird und dass der volkeswille umgesetzt werden muss. 51 % – das ist die mehrheit, und das ist zu respektieren, aber 51 % bei einem referendumsausgang ist nicht das gesamte volk. das gesamte volk wird vertreten in einem parlament, in einem plenum des parlaments, wo interessen ausgeglichen werden. dort wird das volk vertreten. und wenn dann auch noch zusätzlich gesagt wird: „ich muss volkes meinung durchsetzen gegen das parlament“, dann werden grundsatzfragen gestellt, ob das der richtige ansatz ist, in der heutigen welt unsere gesellschaften zu führen. führung heißt nicht spaltung, sondern führung heißt zusammenführen in den heutigen gesellschaften. das macht mich schon sehr nachdenklich, die entwicklung in großbritannien. für die europäische volkspartei ist klar: wir werden die heutige entschließung mit unterstützen. ich möchte mich bei michel barnier für seine arbeit bedanken, ich möchte mich bei guy verhofstadt, bei allen kollegen der brexit steering group für die arbeit bedanken. wir haben als parlament wieder mal gezeigt, dass wir geschlossen unsere positionen vertreten, dass wir die verlängerung nur akzeptieren, wenn sie gut begründet ist, dass wir zu den verabredungen stehen, die im bisherigen austrittsvertrag fixiert sind, dass dahinter gute argumente stehen und dass wir auch für neue vorschläge offen sind. aber eines möchte ich als warnung aussprechen: bei allen diskussionen über neue vorschläge, die jetzt diskutiert werden, muss klar sein, dass die europäische union nicht zulassen darf, dass vor unserer haustüre mit den standards europas – sozial- und umweltstandards – dumping betrieben wird. das dürfen wir nicht zulassen bei allen diskussionen, die auf uns zukommen. der brexit ist unkalkulierbar geworden, und deswegen müssen wir uns auch auf das worst-case-szenario vorbereiten. und eines ist klar: wenn die britische politik nicht aus ihrem deadlock rauskommt, dann ist es wohl das beste, die anstehende frage wieder an die menschen zurückzugeben. die bürger in großbritannien sollten über die zukunft entscheiden.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, a no-deal brexit would be bad news for everyone, but above all it would be a disaster for the united kingdom. it's not just our opinion. the recent publication of the yellowhammer report by the british government warns of the worst-case scenario of a no-deal brexit and brings down the utopia invented by boris johnson. disruptions to the channel crossings, a sharp rise in electricity prices, a reduction in the supply of food and medicine with a serious impact on the most vulnerable populations and legal uncertainty for hundreds of thousands of british citizens living in the european union and for european citizens living in the united kingdom. i shall not be asking certain members to change their attitude to this situation. all i ask is respect. i'm not naive. i am not asking you to respect this house which you have long disrespected. i ask you to respect the people you claim to represent, because their laughter is turning into anguish, uncertainty and concern for millions of people who are listening to this debate. (applause) in this context, the main pro-european forces in this house express in this motion for a resolution our firm support for an extension of article 50 to avoid a catastrophic no-deal scenario if the united kingdom needs more time to hold a general election or a new referendum. you can count on our support. the person responsible for the current chaos has only one name. the current culprit for the chaos has a name: boris johnson. "a man's character is his destiny", the greeks said. "and i agree with them", the prime minister said in the churchill factor, his 2014 book on the british statesman. in the wake of the latest events, destiny seems to be reserving for boris johnson the destruction of the historic twinning between the united kingdom and the rest of europe. our group has worked responsibly to mitigate the worst consequences of brexit. the social democrats in this house demand that boris johnson and his government guarantee the acquired rights of eu citizens living in the united kingdom. for us this is a fundamental question. we are deeply concerned by the confused, contradictory statements of the british home secretary about the end of the circulation after 31 october. citizens should never pay the price for the mistakes of their representatives. let's get this straight. our priority remains an orderly exit. and for that, the withdrawal agreement is the best instrument. it protects the rights of citizenship, avoids a border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland, stipulates the financial obligations of the united kingdom and protects the integrity of the internal market. the social democrats have always regarded brexit as a historic mistake and we are prepared to support the british people if they decide to reverse this decision. the british prime minister would do well to recall the words of his childhood hero winston churchill to a joint sitting of the belgian parliament in brussels on 16 november 1945: 'i see no reason why the united states of europe cannot emerge, which will unify this continent in a way not seen since the fall of the roman empire and in which all its peoples can live together in prosperity and peace.'
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i think it’s important to recall that the british parliament may be shut down but we are clearly showing today, with this debate, that the european union is not. (applause)it’s fantastic that the brexit party and mr farage are making so much noise because they can’t do it in westminster anymore, so they have to do it here. (applause)by the way, they are not even elected in westminster. (applause and heckling)as you know, colleagues, eurosceptics like something: they like bashing europe by saying that the european union is undemocratic. and you can be sure that in a few moments they are going to repeat that. well, i can tell you that jean—claude juncker and president tusk can do a lot of things, but at least they cannot close the doors of this house. that is not possible. so if the eurosceptics, in the coming hours or the coming minutes, again want to make a ridiculous comparison with the soviet union, from now on they can point the finger at westminster instead of at strasbourg or brussels. that seems to me to be a good way forward for them now. my hope is that, with the vote and the resolution today, we will reiterate our unity about brexit: a unity that means parliament, that means the commission, that means the council and that means the 27 member states. there is no discussion about this. brexit is bad. it’s a bad idea, but it has at least one positive effect, and that is to reunite europeans and to make the european project, since brexit, more popular again. that is what we have seen in all the public opinion inside the european union. (applause)in fact, the message of the people during the elections was very clear: reform europe, don’t destroy europe, don’t leave europe. that was the case in all our member states and it was also the case in britain because nearly 40 of the 73 elected british meps are remainers today. (applause) that brings me to the main point, namely the outcome, the deal that i think is still possible. we, as parliament, set three conditions in our resolution and i want to recall those three conditions. the first is to safeguard the rights of our citizens, for the europeans and the british alike. today i have to tell you that this has not been achieved. every day in the british press there are examples of people who have already been living in britain for a decade – even two decades – and who cannot have this so—called settled status. so i think we need a fundamental shift in the way the uk government applies at least that part of the withdrawal agreement. what we don’t need is the bureaucratic application that we have now. what we need from the british government is automatic registration of all our eu citizens. i know – and you know – that boris johnson, the prime minister, very much likes to compare himself to movie characters. well, concerning citizens’ rights, instead of playing the angry hulk, i think he should be inspired by another character, the caring nanny in the film mrs doubtfire, with the late robin williams. secondly, i want to come back to the other problem, the irish backstop – or maybe, michel, let’s call it something else: if they have a problem with ‘backstop’, we’ll call it a safety net. i think that is something we can certainly agree on. we need such a safety net and not only for economic reasons. the main reason why we need the safety net is to make sure that violence does not return on the island of ireland. that is the main reason. (applause)and i have to tell you that i find it completely irresponsible of a number of british mps, especially hardline tories, not to accept this. i have to say that, as we speak – and i ask michel barnier and jean-claude juncker if they can confirm this during the debate – there has not been one legally feasible and practical alternative put on the table by the uk at this moment. so, clearly, i have to tell you that the idea in the british press today to limit the backstop to agricultural products is not enough because they represent only 30% or 35%, i think, of the total imports of goods and services across the border. also, a backstop cannot be ended unilaterally by stormont because that is not a safety net: it would be a permanent instrument for blackmail during the coming negotiations. a safety net needs to be a safety net in the hands of both parties, not only of northern ireland but also of the european union. my final remark is on the future relationship. i think it’s good to repeat this because we are a new parliament. more than 60% of our members are new so it’s important that we recall this. it’s good to repeat that this parliament will never accept an agreement with the uk whereby britain can have all the advantages of free trade and zero tariffs and not be aligned with our ecological, health and social standards in the future. that will not happen. (applause)i can tell you one thing. i know that there are some people in britain who think that these europeans, at the end of the negotiations, will give in. well, that may be possible, but we are not stupid. that means that we will not kill our own companies. we will defend our own companies, we will defend our own economy, we will defend our single market and we will never accept what people call a ‘singapore by the north sea’. that will not happen. (applause) finally, we all know how brexit started. it was an attempt by david cameron to heal the divisions in the conservative party and the consequence has been enormous divisions in british society. what we will not allow, as europeans, is for this brexit to create turmoil and divisions in our european union and in our european project. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we did not choose brexit, but we respect the choice of a majority of british voters and the best proof of this is that we have, in good faith, negotiated an agreement which allows for the separation - which we regret - between the united kingdom and the european union. but i would like to make it clear that the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union does not release it from the legally binding obligations it has contracted for 45 years as a member of the european union and under the so-called good friday peace agreements, which have nevertheless ended a conflict that has cost the lives of 3,000 people and ruined the lives of so many others. we regret that the british prime minister and a large number of representatives in the british parliament are unaware or pretend to be unaware of the existence of these obligations. the position of the british prime minister is, in short, to say to the europeans: i am asking you to open a 500-kilometre gap in the internal market. this is the case, for example, with the european union's commitment to an intolerable policy of fiscal, social and environmental dumping. you will understand that this attitude is not likely to create the confidence needed by the leaders of the 27 member states of the union and by us here in the european parliament to find a negotiated solution to the present impasse. that is to say, whether the prospect of a no-deal exit remains a hot topic and is therefore far from being ruled out. i would simply say to all those, especially in the united kingdom, who are looking forward to such a prospect or who imagine that the 27 will bow their heads in the face of such a prospect, that between two evils, the one that would undeniably be a no-deal exit and the one, much worse, that would irreparably damage the integrity of the internal market, the 27 will always choose the lesser of these evils. but i wouldn't want to end on that note, and the worst is never certain. i have the honour and pleasure of having 11 british meps in my political group. they are among the millions of britons who know where their country's best interests lie, namely at the heart of the european union. i am making it clear here: if the united kingdom, whether through its prime minister or through any other constituted authority, were to ask the european union for an extension of the article 50 deadline, we must grant that request. as long as there is a possibility that reason will prevail, we must do everything we can to seize that possibility.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am more and more appalled by the hostility to democracy which this house and its representatives show. we are allowed to lecture one of the world's oldest democracies, one of the world's oldest parliaments, on democracy, when this parliament and these institutions have shown over the years and even recently that they have an aversion to democratic principles, that they exclude minorities from representation or that they have a decision-making process which is very often not carried out by the elected representatives of this house but by bureaucrats who are not elected by anyone. the mirror of this arrogance is seen in the inscription of the resolution which the majority of the groups in this house have written and which we are about to vote on. the text of the resolution reads as follows: "considers brexit a regrettable event"... for you, the democratic exercise, the greatest democratic exercise, the referendum, is a deplorable event. you dare to lecture the british parliament on democracy: this is disgraceful. what is extremely worrying is that this aversion is not just related to what we are experiencing with brexit: in the recent, or not so recent, history of the european union, there are plenty of examples of how these institutions, the institutions of the european union, have been adverse to the decisions of the citizens: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. rather than worry about the closure of the british parliament, which is a practice provided for by english law, i would worry about the dislike this parliament has for the election results and especially for the referendums: the principle that the decisions freely taken by peoples who do not like these institutions must be changed in some way, and in ways that are perhaps not quite orthodox. i think the real point of brexit is the fear that the european institutions have, the fear that someone might show another way and the fear that the united kingdom outside the european union might prove that maybe this institution is not perfect, maybe this institution has made mistakes and maybe someone can freely decide to take another path and prove that they are better off, or can be better off, even outside the european union. this is a free choice of the british people and we have an obligation to respect it. to go to war and want to punish, as some in this house and in these institutions would like to do, the citizens of the united kingdom simply because they have freely decided to take a different path does not honour the project you want to support. in these three years i have not yet seen a serious examination of conscience on the part of these institutions and this house, an examination of conscience to understand the deep roots of why a member state has decided to leave the european union, why a member state has said enough is enough to this project which you consider infallible and inescapable but which has obvious flaws. rather than looking at what is happening in the united kingdom, i would be concerned about the serious institutional, economic and political crisis which is afflicting the european union today, an interinstitutional crisis between parliament, the council and the member states, a crisis within parliament itself, with the extremely divided and divided political groups which have managed to elect and confirm the president of the commission on the fly, and a political future which is still unseen. do not lecture those who have freely chosen to take a different path, but reflect more deeply on the profound problems these institutions have, otherwise the european union will have no future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i first of all thank jean claude juncker and michel barnier for their broadly helpful and positive remarks this morning. the british government wants a deal, not any old deal but one that is acceptable to the british parliament and the british people, and we need to get it over with quickly. so we must leave on 31⁰october: we should have left on 29⁰march, then on 12⁰april, now on 31⁰october. what’s the point of further delay? some of you may think that if we drag this out a bit more then there’ll be a change of regime in britain, maybe a change of heart, but i believe this is total delusion. (applause) what sort of relationship do you want to see with britain in the future: a positive one based on friendship and goodwill and mutual interest, or one based on anger and bitterness and exclusion? everyone engaged in the process who genuinely seeks agreement must redouble their efforts to get a deal. this requires goodwill and flexibility on both sides. remember that, in the eu, nothing is possible and everything is possible if there is political will. on eu citizens, the british government has been very clear, they are welcome to stay, and it is committed to protecting their rights. more than a million applicants have already been given settled status under the british scheme and there is lots of time for the rest to apply. the european union needs to adopt a similarly generous approach towards british nationals. (applause)the outstanding problem is, of course, the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. no⁰one has a greater interest in peace than the people of northern ireland and the british government. for all its failings, we are committed to the belfast agreement, the so-called good friday agreement. this agreement, by the way, does not mention the border. it is, however, based on parity of esteem between the two communities, the two traditions in northern ireland. and please don’t forget that the majority of people in northern ireland are unionists, they’re proud to be both northern irish and british and they wish to remain so. some in this house seem to have forgotten this. so both the eu and the uk must apply some creative thinking to find alternative arrangements to the safety net, as i much prefer to call it. i don’t think the verhofstadt resolution, by the way, contributes anything useful at this stage. we would like to see a brexit steering group that is truly democratic, fully representative and a real source of wisdom and ideas, not just repeating tired mantras. (applause)after all, the final deal needs the approval not only of the british houses of parliament but of our european parliament as well. and colleagues, i say to all of you who represent parties of government: it’s time to get cracking. pick up your phones, i know mr⁰barnier needs no instruction, but he needs to do a deal and the council must urge him to get on with it before it meets on 17⁰october. let’s not lose the opportunity for that fresh and exciting partnership between the european union and the united kingdom to serve all our people well in the years ahead.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not when i was new here in parliament, i once heard a brexiteer say, "i have to destroy an empire". what he meant, of course, and what he was referring to was the european union, but the brexiters have only got the uk into the biggest political crisis in decades with their policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. this policy is not in the interests of the british people or the people of europe. the government of boris johnson knows this very well. what sounds like a bad james bond movie title, but behind it is a british government analysis of the situation, which assumes that there will be shortages of medicine, of food, that there will be social unrest, that the conflict in northern ireland will be re-ignited. but the government seems to be pursuing exactly this policy. i'm telling you, this is a total and total mistake. we are not talking about abstract things here either, when we talk about brexit with or without a deal. we are talking about the fact that a german or a polish nurse, for example, does not know whether he will still have a residence permit in the uk to work in the health system there. the same applies to work permits. we are talking about a british pensioner who does not know how her pension payments will proceed if she lives in the eu. and we're also talking about the fact that a family in belfast who wants to send their children to school in the morning may have to worry in the future that something will happen on the street again, as it did in the early years of the civil war, if you continue this policy. we are talking about this when we talk about a hard brexit, and british politics must finally do something about it and show the will to do so. i think of britain and i think of many things, such as a strong democracy that resisted fascism. i think of a colonial empire with all the dark sides of a colonial history. i am thinking of a country that has produced thinkers like thomas hobbes and john maynard keynes. and as a socialist, i remember karl marx found asylum in london. but what i'm not thinking about - and i feel the same way as my colleague verhofstadt - is the comic character hulk. i tell you, a cartoon character will not save the peace process in northern ireland or protect the social and civil rights of its citizens. this can only be achieved by a wise policy. this is what we on the left in the european parliament stand for and this is why we support this resolution.
mr. president, we are here today to discuss brexit. there have been several attempts to obstruct the british referendum, the results of the british referendum. that's absolutely wrong. what is the logic of obstructing the british referendum? repeat the referendum two, three, four times until the answer is different. is that the logic of a referendum? it's the reduction of democracy to an absurdity. i'd like to start with a quote, and i'll paraphrase edward grey, the british foreign secretary, sometime around the beginning of world war i, who said something like this: "relationships, deals, the word, it's got to be worth something. if it doesn't work, we're left with a cannon, we're left with nothing but to turn on each other. this referendum has to be worth something. what the british people have said, it must be worth something and it must be respected. for it also tells you something about the will of the british people, that here to my left are 29 mps from the brexit party, the strongest party in this parliament. merkel's cdu has 23, brexit has 29. it tells me something about the will of the british people. i'd also like to say that that's what the past is. however, let us look to the future. a few weeks ago, mrs von der leyen spoke of a common foreign policy as something that had yet to be done, something that would be decided by a vote. i consider it very dangerous, von der leyen cannot define for my croatia what she will think, what attitude she will have towards bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, iran, the united states, malta or anyone else. it's a pathway to even worse relationship breakdown. enough with the integration and the federalization. all of this is reinforcing euroscepticism, some would say dangerous euroscepticism. it could be, like, who. i would like to say is dangerous eurofundamentalism. it's the merkel way or no way. you're not allowed to redefine relationships, you're not allowed to redefine policies. and if the redefinition is not allowed, brexit will be just the beginning. i am in favour of amending article 50 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to speed up and simplify the exit of those countries whose people so choose.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. we live in a time of great demographic, technological, but also climate change. this last budget in the budgetary period with key budgetary policies is therefore of the utmost importance. here in the european parliament we must continue to insist on policies that are geared towards the younger generation, policies that bring quality education, quality jobs and also facilitate family formation in all parts of europe closer together. we also need to support investment in innovation and research that enable global competitiveness, but at the same time we need to continue with policies to reduce disparities between member states. central and eastern europe, and in particular croatia as the youngest member state, have yet to feel the full benefits of european membership. the priorities of each organisation, and therefore of the european union, are best seen in how it uses its limited resources. the 2020 budget should therefore also justify the trust that our citizens have placed in us in the european elections. this means being future-oriented, but also reducing geographical and generational differences.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we have a very serious unsolved problem, of billions and billions of euros circulating in the european financial system, laundered, derived from criminal activities, and the scandals of recent years are, i think, palpable. from the latvian bank ablv, the danske bank, the deutsche bank, the pilatus bank, we could make a very, very long list of the scandals that you are all well aware of. and in the evaluations you have made, we find failures of all kinds: from the lack, for example, of anti-money laundering obligations within banks, the lack of staff in the supervisory bodies, the lack of inspections, zero cooperation between countries. this is a very, very serious problem and we must therefore take more action, be much more courageous in the application of european legislation. we cannot be that far behind in the implementation of the fourth directive. we have to be very diligent with the application of the fifth. as we have asked this parliament and will ask it in this resolution, with the monitoring of third countries which are a real problem, with that grey list which we have long proposed that you establish, and also, when these directives are not applied correctly, to be much more diligent in opening infringement procedures. we have real states that do not comply in any way with the legislation that we have adopted in this house. and therefore, you must be much more diligent. and finally, as we have also asked them on many occasions, we must move progressively towards the creation of a genuine european authority to be able to tackle this phenomenon. so that must be an absolute priority of this mandate.
honorable chairman, corruption and money laundering are two extremely related concepts. in this day and age, the greatest corruption and the greatest disappearance of money that needs to be laundered afterwards is not from the trade and smuggling of cigarettes, not from blackmail, but it comes from public procurement and bankruptcy proceedings. and what's even worse, what happened in the republic of croatia, it's possible to legalize this corruption with newly passed laws. in croatia, the law on contingency settlements and emergency administration was passed, which was worth 10 billion euros. and the courts, which were supposed to monitor the legality of these proceedings and prevent corruption and money laundering, were turned into mere notaries. a huge amount of money has gone missing in that way. many have become owners of large trading companies in the republic of croatia without us knowing who they are. all this is done through funds based in third countries.
mr president, we all know that turkey is an extremely important neighbour of the european union. apart from the issues of economic exchange, the issues of migration, which we've heard a lot about, also of great importance is the influence of turkey in the area of southeast europe, especially bosnia and herzegovina. turkey has been projecting its influence in bosnia and herzegovina for years, primarily through bosniak parties, and that is something that definitely cannot and should not be ignored in any way. unfortunately, bosnia and herzegovina's european path is largely undermined by certain political parties there, it is undermined by those who do not respect the decisions of the constitutional court and who actually deny and make impossible the rule of law by undermining the equality of one of the constituent peoples, which is croatian. unfortunately, this situation has to do with that projection of interest and power that i was talking about. as for turkey itself, unfortunately in recent years we find a situation there where there is a twilight of democracy, where we actually have a backsliding and degradation of fundamental human rights, democracy and the rule of law and the constitutional order, and this has intensified especially after the failed coup in 2016. we've had a situation of unseemly purges in the education system, the media, the judiciary, and the culmination of that is what we're talking about today, which is the removal of legally elected local leaders and the replacement of those installed from the top. unfortunately, this degradation is not good, this degradation shows that turkey is moving away from all those principles that were established by the founder of the modern turkish republic kemal atatürk, namely democracy, rule of law and a modern secular state that as such has applied for the european union. in order for turkey to remain in good relations with the european union, in order for these neighborly relations to develop, it is essential that turkey return to those standards that were established before, that we prevent these situations of the replacement of elected officials, that we return turkey to democracy, to the rule of law, and that we prevent the demographic manipulation of the ruling party and its president.
mr president, yesterday in the committee of the regions i said that a small budget for europe would be a cruel lack of political ambition. sacrificing the common agricultural policy, sacrificing the cohesion policy would be a terrible renunciation and would be a victory for the europe-haters. is this what the heads of state want? is this the lesson they have learnt from the european elections? that's the question i'm asking them. and i say to the council that the european parliament will not accept cuts in the cohesion budget because, more than ever, we need more cohesion and the cuts in the cohesion budget will mean less training for young people, less innovation, less investment in the regions, less jobs, less food aid for the poorest and more territorial division. so, at a time when a global crisis seems to be brewing, the best way to protect european citizens is to provide the european union with a real budget, an offensive political budget, which is also capable of responding to the challenges we face, particularly in relation to climate change.
the multiannual financial framework and the budget of the european union must be developed and ensure equal prosperity for all member states. economically developed countries are experiencing increased economic activity due to market expansion, while certain less developed countries such as croatia are being disadvantaged by membership of the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. the republic of croatia has thus made a profit of eur 1,8 billion in terms of withdrawals since joining the european union, and has lost eur 3,5 billion in the agricultural sector alone. it is therefore logical to require economically developed countries to contribute more to the european budget.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am aware that a budget must look ahead and that a budget must also set new priorities. but we should not forget the so-called 'old' policies of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a proposal on the table today. this proposal provides for considerable savings in the agricultural sector, and even this proposal is not acceptable to some member states. what i think is even more serious is that the proposal involves massive cuts, particularly in rural development. the rural development plan is now the most important rural development instrument for many regions. if this fund is cut by more than a quarter, the richer countries - those who do not want to pay what the commission has proposed so far - will fill the gap with their own resources, and the others, the poorer ones, will be left behind, and the union will drift even further apart. that is not the meaning of a sensible policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today is informed by a quote from oscar wilde, who once said: 'a cynic is one who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.' the populist cowardly cynics are, to me, those who delay, denounce investment as waste, block and refuse to recognise the value of research and education, climate targets and investment, land-based agriculture and social cohesion, external border protection and security, defence, foreign policy, energy policy. the vote today and the debate in the coming weeks is one between nationalism, populism, cowardice and ignorance on the one hand and responsibility, future, reason and sincerity on the other. we all know that the 1% threshold will betray our common future, for which we are all responsible, and that it will conceal from our citizens the added value of european decisions and investments. i hope that parliament will support you today, commissioner, and support you in the negotiations. we must make the future our friend.
madam president, we all know that tourism has been a shared competence since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in november 2018, this plenary, in its resolution on parliament's position with a view to the next financial framework, was clear and approved the creation of a financing line for sustainable tourism and, to this end, asked the commission to immediately come forward with a legislative proposal, a concrete proposal, as proof of respect and recognition of this sector. i regret that we have not received anything from the commission or the member states so far. i remind you that in 2018 alone, international tourist arrivals grew 6% worldwide. tourism is undoubtedly a very important industry not only for my country, portugal, but for the whole of europe. this industry has enabled, has helped, several countries to recover more quickly from the economic and financial crisis. a final appeal to the commission and the member states: it is time to meet the expectations of the citizens. let's make sustainable tourism a priority.
i will say, madam president, mr commissioner, that the challenge is even greater than brexit to find a new successful, modern economic model that europe and all member states will use in the years ahead. the european budget must not be a strict, banking budget but a development budget with a vision to ensure that europe has the highest gdp growth in the world and that its citizens have the highest growth standards. to do that, we need to clearly define our strategic priorities, such as education, digitisation, green policies or security. and in all this, do not underestimate cohesion policy and its importance. and i cannot accept the idea of increasing the share of the member states from 15 to 30 per cent per approved project. that is why i expect to see the end of one such idea, and that is why i believe in europe, i believe in cohesion policy, in the solidarity of the member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the bankruptcy of thomas cook is very bad news, not only for hundreds of thousands of tourists, of course, but above all for the entire tourism industry, which is very important for the eu economy. it is estimated that this will lead to a wave of bankruptcies among hotel operators in spain, in greece and that the cost of compensating customers will be borne by all countries where thomas cook has been active, directly or indirectly. this is the case in my country, poland, where the effects of this event were felt directly by several thousand people who had to be brought home in an emergency. but i have a question for the commissioner. is this just a one-time event or are we looking at the beginning of something bigger, the beginning of some kind of crisis in the tourism industry? is this an isolated incident because for some reason the thomas cook office was badly managed, or is there a bigger crisis in the travel industry that we're going to see in the near future? is this the way the european commission is looking at this bankruptcy?
madam president, i have been a bankruptcy judge in the republic of croatia for the last eight years. the items in my courtroom were several billion euros in weight. in the republic of croatia we had one huge bankruptcy of a company that for the national economy can be declared even bigger than thomas cook. the problem arises when each country tries to regulate by its own domestic bankruptcy legislation the individual bankruptcy of a company that is a multinational company. then there can be huge problems. we have a business of agrokor, which has been in several states of the region. we'll continue to drag out political situations, but the worst thing that's happened is that we've allowed funds whose owners we don't even know to take over the entire asset. thomas cook owns, i think, about a hundred planes. that's certainly something to consider. the european parliament and the european union must take account of bankruptcies that are multinational.
mr. chairman, as we know, education is a vital area of life for all of us. it determines our lives, it determines the values by which we will live, and in that sense it determines the political future of the continent on which we live. unfortunately, i can say, and i see this in my own country, that education is becoming more and more politicized, and it's not so much a new phenomenon. we've had this from some political, ideological groups who have talked about a long march through the institutions and it's not good. ideologizing education is not good, it takes us back to some other time, to totalitarian times, and it forgets what's crucial, that education should be based on facts, should be based on facts and should be based on science. so i'm appealing that we really don't talk about education from an ideological position, that we don't talk without facts, but that we really have all the facts presented to us so that we can make a decision. for example, i'm not happy that a proposal like this doesn't follow the original text of the law itself. i think it's some kind of elementary thing that we should all get a look at so we can judge from it. and so i'm appealing again, less ideology in education, less politicization, and more faculties.
mr president, freedom of movement is one of the european union's greatest achievements. in order to ensure that croatian citizens benefit from this achievement, croatia has ensured the full application of the schengen acquis over the past two years. today, over six and a half thousand croatian police officers guard the longest land border of the european union. croatia's accession to schengen will ensure better transport connectivity, economic cooperation, but also the protection of common external borders. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any further information. it is therefore appropriate that the european commission should take a decision on the technical readiness of croatia to accede to the schengen area solely and exclusively on the basis of an objective assessment, rejecting unjustified political pressure. croatia is ready for schengen.
dear mr. vice president, rare diseases are one of the great challenges facing health systems today. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. we have situations where simply a relatively small number of patients very often does not allow for the maintenance and financing of expensive hospital and other healthcare resources, and this leads to inequality between the level of healthcare for these patients compared to others. what can the european union do? the european union, unfortunately, has relatively few competences in the area of health, as defined by article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the application of competences is in the member states. however, this should not be an excuse and should not be an excuse for not doing anything. the fact is that the political climate has changed, the fact is that my political group, the european people's party, is the one that has made health a high priority for the european union itself, and i think that in this sense we all need to make a concerted effort to do our utmost to define at european level an action plan and strategy to combat rare diseases. let's show that the european union is not some bureaucratic super-creature, that it is not a self-serving purpose, let's help our patients, let's help the citizens of the european union!
madam president, what really grates here is not the dishonesty of our mps, but the credit that they’re giving to our intelligence. they could have just rejected brexit, they could have just refused to implement article 50, but instead they have again and again lied and concealed their true motives. they thought that, if they could string things out beyond last week, people would blame boris rather than the people doing the stringing out. they think that if they keep calling for an election but voting against it, we somehow won’t notice. they think that if they amend a bill to death with the intention of stopping it, again we’re going to fall for it. they seem to have believed their own propaganda about all leave voters being stupid. and every time they have miscalculated. the reality is that the conservative party has been ahead for the last 40 opinion polls, generally in double digits. the only options we have are either to take this deal now and become good neighbours, rather than grudging tenants, or there will be an outright victory for the conservatives at the next election and tougher terms. those are the only two options now left. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i am grateful to mr hannan for giving way and i warmly endorse his criticism of dishonest politicians. in exactly that vein, would he like to apologise for his oft-repeated quote that ‘nobody is talking about leaving the single market’, which he said repeatedly during the leave campaign, and indeed his subsequent conversion to the view that eu citizens’ rights are not going to be the same? would he like to apologise for his previous positions and set the record straight?
blue-card answer. – it’s simply not the case that i repeatedly said that during the election campaign. you’ll hear a quote from a 2015 interview, before the campaign began, in which i made very clear – and i’ve stuck to that position all the way through – that i thought the best outcome for us would be a swiss-type outcome. that’s a position that i took before, during and since the campaign. i have not changed my position. i wonder whether you, mr smith, who have made your entire career about demanding a referendum on independence for one part of the uk, might consider the hypocrisy of refusing to accept the verdict when the uk as a whole votes for independence.
madam president, well after three agonising years of negotiations, michel barnier gets boris johnson to sign us up to a brand new treaty, which guarantees three more years of agonising negotiations – and frankly reduces the united kingdom to the status of a colony of the european union. and why is boris doing it? he’s doing it because he doesn’t want an extension. he’s doing it because he knows that an extension damages the conservative party in the polls, so he wants to bounce us into this new treaty before we wake up. it’s the same story every time. it’s about the tory party, not about the country. and what we need is to build a ‘leave alliance’, of people across the political spectrum, to fight and win the next general election. the only way we can leave this place is with a clean-break brexit. i would like to think, like mr juncker, that this is my last speech here in 20 years, but somehow, i’ve got the feeling … i’m sorry! i’m sorry! (interruption by the president following noise in the chamber)i’d love it to be. you’d love it to be! but i have a feeling we’ll be back in november.
madam president, mr donald, mr jean-claude, i share your indignation at a result that was not achieved in the council, a result of attention to the balkans. turkey, china, russia, saudi arabia are investing energy and resources in the balkans and we are taking steps backwards not by facilitating the stability of that region, which is fundamental to the stability of the whole of europe. we are not giving positive messages, we are giving negative messages. it was a glaring mistake, condemning europe to a progressive political irrelevance in that area, but the same mistakes we made in not making courageous choices in the middle east. we have not been able to tell turkey clearly that it should not invade that part of syria, because terrorists are not sought in syria, kurdish terrorists are in turkey and must be arrested. but to strike at the entire kurdish people is a glaring mistake. we are also canceling out a part of the christian minorities in that part of syria and we are continuing to make mistakes, because europe, because of the selfishness of individual countries, is not able to play a leading role in the world. we have not had the courage to tell turkey or to go to the world trade organisation, for example, to denounce the state aid to the turkish steel industry by the military, which in fact competes unfairly with the european steel industry. if europe is to count, it must abandon national nostalgia, but have a strategy to count on the international stage. and the conference on the future of europe must aim at one reform only: the return to politics. if europe does not return to politics, it is destined to become irrelevant in the decades to come.
mr president, commissioners, mr president donald tusk, you have reached an agreement with the president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, which i welcome, an agreement which respects european rules, which also respects the sovereign choice of the british people. twenty years of fighting europe, twenty years of being fed by europe... what is important today is the future relationship, and i would like to commend the work of michel barnier, his action for the cohesion of the 27 member states with johannes hahn and miguel cañete, whom i commend, for standing behind him in maintaining a vision and carrying a project together for the future of europe. a new postponement may be necessary, but i hope it will only be accepted if there is something new, if there is a reason. in any case, i would like to commend your efforts to ensure that a european project of the future is carried forward.
madam president, although johnson is trying to bounce the westminster parliament into rubber-stamping the brexit deal, our parliament should do its job properly. we need to accord this treaty, which is so crucial to the interests of the eu and the uk, sufficient scrutiny. since brexit was clearly intended as an attack on european standards and on the integrity of the single market, we must not allow brexit fatigue to weaken our resolve. we must defend those standards. we welcomed mr barnier’s idea of the level playing field, preventing the uk from undercutting the single market and its standards on environment, workers’ rights and tax. but in this deal, johnson has moved those restrictions from the withdrawal agreement to the political declaration, which will not be legally binding. this is a clear signal that they are preparing the uk to become singapore—on—thames and is a threat to the integrity of the single market. our european parliament has already agreed that we will not agree the deal before the westminster parliament does, and we must stick to that, in spite of any pressure that might come from the council to make hasty and risky decisions. our job is to ensure that we protect the european project and the interests of present and future eu citizens.
mr tusk, you are here crying for britain, wondering why there are now problems with the negotiations with macedonia, with albania. i'll tell you what the problem is in croatia, why croats are so disappointed in europe. because they expected, and it was promised to them, by your friend plenkovic and the political establishment, that one day when we enter europe, the judiciary will be eliminated, the fight against corruption will be eliminated. that's not what happened. that's why there was this disappointment. croatia is, i can freely say, the most corrupt country in europe, and there are reports like this coming out every now and then. and in such a country, the most corrupt in europe, you choose to trust. in croatia, for 10,000 euros or more, you can buy the result of a police investigation, a court judgment, a decision of the prosecutor. in croatia, the institutions function in such a way that they ask the thief if he is a thief, in the first step. step two, he says he's not a thief, and step three, he concludes there's no criminal element. and that's how it went on for decades. the croatian people expected you to change that, to bring high european standards to croatia, but the opposite happened. it was evident in the selection of the commission, that you accepted the opinion of the croatian judiciary, say about the property of dubravka šuica or anyone. croatia entered europe with corruption, instead of europe entering croatia with high standards. (the ombudsman agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. sincic, this is not the first time you have lied, deceived and betrayed your own country in this high house, so i ask you: why are you doing this? why did you do everything to prevent the election of ms. schuica and when you were the one creating the problem while the legal affairs committee said everything was fine? so, you've made your own country a problem because of the internal political problems in croatia. you're insinuating, you're playing tricks. please don't do this and explain to me why you do it, why you harm the croatian state?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. sokol, i hope you are well aware that article 339 of the croatian criminal code speaks of bribery of a representative. please, enter the process that i have been discussing a lot these days in the croatian public, the investigation of the assets of mrs. šuica, and you will see that europe trusted croatian institutions. the most corrupt country in europe, their institutions are trusted without any checks. in croatian arsh, not in finnish arsh. there's mr. kolakuśic, he was a judge for 20 years. you think he was chosen here by accident? it's not a date. he was elected on a wave of dissatisfaction with the croatian justice system that your establishment created.
madam president, the budget is a magical ingredient that turns all declared political goals into reality. therefore, while investing in the modernisation of europe, we must not neglect the balanced regional development of all the regions of the european union as one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. the final budget of the multiannual framework must meet the expectations of our electorate. policies are needed that respond to the demographic, technological and climate changes we are witnessing. more funds are needed for erasmus+, as one of the most successful european programmes, additional support is needed for both entrepreneurship and innovation and research, but also for increasing security and tackling migration. with next year's budget, we must continue to build a modern europe, but also one of solidarity, a europe of the new generation, but at the same time a europe that does not neglect its traditional successful policies and reduces regional disparities.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr zdechovský, you mentioned our colleagues from the brexit party and my question to you is: why do you think they are so unhappy? without the european union and this electoral system, we would remain in political obscurity and never have the opportunity to come out and express our views so openly. so why do you think they're so unhappy, why they're spreading so many lies, misinformation, especially in the context of when it was really their country that had all the concessions, special rules, and they're still unhappy. so i ask you, what are they unhappy about? i'm really not clear on that.
the european union is facing a number of challenges, including climate change, technological developments, migration and new geopolitical challenges. i am very pleased that it is parliament, in this triangle between the commission, parliament and the council, which is proposing major steps in this direction. of course, without neglecting the traditional policies, namely the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, which are based on the principle of solidarity on which the european union is founded, and which are guided by solidarity with the less developed, such as my country, the republic of croatia. i would like to mention in particular the 'horizon' proposal for an increase for horizon. parliament is going a long way here, proposing a total increase, when all is said and done, of over a billion euros. however, what i would like to emphasize in the motion for a resolution is a fair geographical distribution. we know that, unfortunately, in the horizon competitions today, a disproportionate amount of funding goes to those stronger developed countries that have the resources for a large, developed scientific infrastructure and can really afford it all, and that in this sense they have a comparative advantage over the less developed. so i think it's very important to take this into account, to equalise these start-up opportunities between different countries and institutions from different countries, to work on synergies with cohesion policy so that the less developed can really catch up with the more developed and compete on equal terms to get projects from horizon.
madam president, climate and ecology are not only the issues of the future but absolutely the issues of the present. and everything that happens with temperatures, with floods, with droughts, it doesn't happen by chance. for this reason, it is clear that we must act with urgency. a common, sustainable, green plan is urgently needed. we need a new europe which can reconcile, on the one hand, the protection of the environment and nature and, on the other, of course, the desire for economic growth and development. ladies and gentlemen, time is running out, and that is why we need to make a just transition with the help of the eu budget, but we can only do so with the help of an environmentally-oriented budget for the period 21-27 because the cost of electric vehicles, organic farming or alternative energy sources should not be paid by our citizens, artisans, farmers, but above all by the environmentally-oriented budget of the european union.
the question he asked by raising his blue card. thank you for your words. i won't ask my colleague when he was last in tirana, bitola or skopje because i don't think he was, but i'll ask him something else at the end. because today we're talking about an absolute situation where some countries that are outside the european union want to join the european union, and some that are inside want to leave. we have to put an end to this, and you know, when you make a promise to someone, then that someone expects you to keep that promise because they're not going to trust you again. for that reason, i am sure that this is a historical mistake, i am sure that we are playing with peace and stability in those areas, and i ask you: what different way of life, since you said it, do these people have in contrast to us who are members of the european union?
mr president, the enlargement policy is one of the european union's most successful policies, which has united europe, brought stability and development to much of europe. this is why this blocking of the opening of negotiations is totally unacceptable, especially since there was a positive recommendation from the european commission based on objective indicators and on the implementation of reforms. the countries that want to become members must be evaluated solely on the basis of their performance and not on the basis of the political climate in individual member states, even the largest countries of the european union. such a huge strategic historical error reinforces the importance of other global actors in the region, but at the same time, such a lack of accountability calls into question the credibility of the european union as a whole. the croatian presidency and the zagreb summit in may next year are therefore an opportunity to put this area once again in focus and to set a clear time perspective.
the question he asked by raising his blue card. i agree with the vast majority of what ms fajon said, but what i want to ask her is: why did she not react with the same consistency and support croatia's entry into the schengen area after, likewise, the green light from the european commission which, likewise in the enlargement process, is based on objective indicators?
the question he asked by raising his blue card. mr cerdas, i am glad that you mentioned one of the problems that really still exists, which is the disparity in access to healthcare within the european union, so i am curious to know which european policies you think can best contribute to solving this problem, specifically i am thinking of cohesion policy. do you think that cohesion policy can be an adequate instrument to solve these problems that exist in madeira, but also in other parts of europe, especially the middle east?
mr. chairman, we know, and this debate shows, that there is indeed a consensus that the right to health care is a universal human right. the fact is, however, that this universal human right is still not being realized in large parts of the world. however, what i would certainly point out is, and this has been said in some of the previous debates, that large disparities and problems with access to health care exist within the european union itself. and we can really see the differences between certain parts of the urban centers of the western parts versus rural areas, versus areas of central eastern europe and islands and other remote areas that are much less accessible. unfortunately, the european union has also contributed to some extent to the problems of health care access through austerity policies, draconian austerity in many situations during the economic crisis. i am glad that this policy is changing, i am glad that my political group, the european people's party, has recognised the moment, that it has put the right to health care at the top of the priorities of the european union, and i really think that we all need to be committed in this sense to resolve these problems as soon as possible. the european union has a number of instruments with which it can address the problem of inadequate access to healthcare, and one of these instruments is cohesion policy. cohesion policy exists based on the principle of solidarity so that precisely those parts of the population that are less developed can catch up with those that are more developed in every respect, including access to health care. so let's strengthen cohesion policy, put healthcare at the top of the european union's priorities and really help make this universal human right as much as possible a reality.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. colleague, you mentioned several things that you think should be done to solve this problem. now, i'm interested, we know that the member states are the ones in the european union that are primarily responsible for health care issues, but the european union is playing an increasingly larger role. so i ask you very specifically: do you think that the european union should have even more powers in the field of health, should it get more funds to influence the health policies of the member states, and can we do more through joint action by the european union than through action by individual countries?
the commission. mr president, indonesia's new criminal code is contrary to all our democratic values and to that extent to human rights. we cannot tolerate discrimination against women and minorities being written into law and fundamental rights being violated. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the specific proposals contained in the european parliament's resolution are actually listened to in indonesia. we have been careful to keep the tone constructive and welcoming. the resolution now has amendments which seek to name two eu citizens who are in indonesian prisons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the resolution we condemn the continued use of the death penalty in indonesia. it's very clear. however, zooming in on individual citizens will dilute the broad decision which otherwise puts an important focus on problematic elements of the criminal law. in the worst case, the indonesian government will see the whole decision as a cover to get eu citizens released rather than a real concern for the millions of indonesians who will live under the new penal code. i would urge everyone to vote in favour of the resolution, but to vote against amendments nos 1, 4 and 5.
author. mr president, commissioner, we would generally say that within south-east asia we see indonesia as a stable partner which has and respects certain democratic principles. it was even more surprising that in the reform of the penal code, which was many years old, a number of points were inserted into its text that we find in no way reflect the long-term development in this country and actually rank indonesia among the extreme countries that want to violate the fundamental human rights that this country has long advocated. we are therefore very pleased that in recent months, with the change of the president, the government and the political leaders, these negotiations on the new form of the criminal code have been suspended and that a dialogue has begun with other countries, including the european union, on its form. i am happy and optimistic that the draft law will not be passed in any way and that indonesia will once again show that it is a stable democratic partner, that it is a country that puts its future in the hands of human rights and that it will not re-introduce the death penalty or other shootings, whether against sexual or religious minorities. i think that in my time as an mep i have had the opportunity to meet indonesian representatives on several occasions and i think that openness and the effort to listen to each other is an important element here to ensure that the situation that exists in indonesia today is never repeated.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, indonesia is the fourth most populated country in the world (265 million), largely a muslim country but with huge diversity in terms of ethnic minorities, religion, languages, culture. at the same time, it’s a country that’s making very good progress and one that we can have a much closer partnership with into the future. and as a member of the asean delegation and of the international trade committee, i would hope that over the next five years we could move, perhaps, towards having a free trade agreement with indonesia. this is a good time to debate this issue, because often we say to ourselves: what effect do our urgencies have? well this is very timely, because the criminal code, which we have difficulty with, is now going through the process of ratification in indonesia. but, as it has been pointed out, as a result of protests – which are allowed in a functioning democracy, which indonesia is (we must recognise that), the president decided to postpone ratification. so this is very timely for us to outline issues which we are not happy with. and indeed, which do not comply with international norms in relation to women’s rights, religious minorities, lgtbti rights, political ideologies, reproductive health and the death penalty. and i think it will be good for us, especially with the new commission, if we were to send a delegation to indonesia to discuss these issues. i myself, in my capacity as a rapporteur for the renewable energy file, met a huge delegation who came here to europe last year in relation to palm oil. so there is ongoing dialogue and i think we could come together and discuss these issues and move rapidly to a closer relationship.
mr president, the european union is one of the world's great economic and political powers. we take it for granted that we can share lessons with third countries, but the way we do it is wrong. we make resolutions that are extremely mild, and if the countries we address do not act on our resolutions, nothing happens. we're doing ourselves a disservice by doing that. we're saving our influence and reputation. we must ensure a sequence that is completely clear and consistent at all times. first comes the resolution, then comes the warning, then comes the sanctions. these sanctions and warnings must always be consistent because then, when we send a particular resolution to a particular government, we know what the consequences will be.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, thirty years ago, the wall did not just fall, it was brought down by very courageous people, people who took a very high and very concrete personal risk. they fought for fair and free elections, for the freedom of expression, for an end to being caged-in and under constant observation – all those things that we take for granted right now. but back then, those demands could get you into prison, they could get you tortured, lose your job and lose your social connections. but despite all of those risks, people took to the streets, organised already long before 1989, and never gave up. it is this courage that changed the world and it is this courage that’s still changing the world today. also today, we need to be vigilant, not to forget the lessons from 1989. democracy needs to be gained every day again and again, in every action that we do here in this house but also everywhere in europe. unfortunately, there are governments right now who are trying to dismantle democracy, bit by bit. this is a disgrace, especially given the sacrifices that the citizens in countries like hungary made to free their country. those who shut down universities, those who arrest civil society and build walls against refugees, they are betraying the demonstrators from 1989. (applause)freedom is something that needs to be expanded every day as well and too many people are still not free in this world, not free for who they are, whom they love or where they’re from. we are all citizens of this world, born free and born equal. discrimination and hatred should not prevail. freedom of expression is also being curbed when hatred and threats are being issued and used against people active in politics, active in their communities. when people there are faced with threats on an everyday level, then this is a problem for freedom of expression, as well as democracy. constant observation is also becoming a trend again, but we should never forget what history teaches us – surveillance, a control state, does not lead to freedom or security. it ends both. we don’t know what the future will bring, and any law we do here always needs to work also when governments don’t mean well. things have changed a lot over the past years, over the past 30 years especially. if you look at the border zone now that once divided germany, where hundreds of people lost their lives trying to cross looking for freedom, often also being assisted by other people who helped them, this area is now a major production area, safeguarding climate and biodiversity for the future generations and becoming a symbol of hope. the borders that divided europe have now become places where people meet, get to know each other. but let’s not forget, there are many walls still up today that need to be torn down. there are many people today, as back then, who are looking for freedom. let us not turn our back on them. let us not forget what it means to look for freedom, to not have it and then to gain it. without the courageous people thirty years ago, i wouldn’t be here and many colleagues would not be either. europe as we know it, only exists because the wall that divided us all finally was torn down. but 9 november 1989 is not a date where we should hold commemoratory speeches and just congratulate each other on how well it all worked back then. i believe it is an anniversary to remind us to be courageous, to tear down the walls that divide us and to be the change that we want to see in the world.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. thirty years ago, in one of the happiest hours of german history, the wall came down. our compatriots in the former gdr took to the streets in a totalitarian and brutal system. they demonstrated, risking their health, even their lives. this heroic and consistently peaceful effort eventually brought down the wall and imploded a socialist regime of injustice. so far, so pleasant, so right, so wonderful! but what was supposedly swept away by the peaceful revolution is back again. socialism and communism were not defeated in the end, as had been hoped. he's alive, he's risen right now in front of all of us. the sed successors are now celebrating german unity in a deeply hypocritical manner, as are the socialist greens and the social democrats. they all wanted to prevent german reunification. berlin itself is now ruled by a deep-red senate that seeks expropriation and destroys the price mechanism to prepare for just that. the socialists and communists sit in the german bundestag and they are smiling at us in the european parliament, where they are implementing their agenda which destroys freedom day by day: a planned economy instead of a market economy, dictates of correctness instead of true freedom of expression. has the lesson of history still not been learned? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. all of this is unconquered, unfortunately. the european union is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union. the peaceful revolutionaries of 1989 did not chant 'eu, one fatherland', but they shouted 'germany, one fatherland'. they fought for freedom, for identity, for democracy and, yes, for the national sovereignty of germany. they did not fight for socialism through the back door, nor did they fight for the european union. in the meantime, you are working here to overcome the nation states in favour of an identityless nothing called the united states of europe. you 'll see sooner or later . the freedom-loving citizens of europe will also bring down this absurd tower of babel, because in 1989 people did not go out into the streets and risked their heads and necks and their lives to do so. if we do not return to a europe of sovereign homelands, where nations coexist peacefully and cooperate meaningfully with each other, the eu as a whole will one day implode, and brexit will have been only the beginning of that implosion. do not underestimate the will to freedom! it's very european. and whosoever commits sin therein, he will not have a lasting success.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, communism was the most murderous system in the history of mankind. more murderous, perhaps, than german national socialism. as somebody who, for many years, lived in a communist country, i feel it is my duty to repeat this truth over and over again. i’m afraid that what i’m going to say will be rather bitter and out of tune with what has been said before. the division between those who supported communism and those that opposed it, at that time, was far from clear. let me remind you that in the 1970s and 1990s, the soviet union became a vital part of the international order. it was accepted as such. the west european governments conducted realpolitik towards the soviet regime and accommodated its aspirations. for the same reason, those governments looked at the anti-communist movements within the soviet bloc with suspicion, treating them as trouble- makers, courageous, politically naive yet jeopardising the international order. these movements disturbed the détente, they disturbed the ost politik. they stood in the way of the policy of the majority of west european governments which were, or had been for a long time, openly pro-soviet. the involvement of the western elites in the legitimisation of communism had serious consequences. the communists continued their careers afterwards, after the system fell, and some of them joined the european parliament, joined the european institutions, some are still here. they rebranded themselves as social democrats, jumped from the bandwagon called the soviet system to another bandwagon, which is called the european union and they were greeted heartily. overnight, the apparatchiks, the partiegenossen became enthusiastically european. super-duper european. the communist system should have discredited the political left in europe. unfortunately, it didn’t. in fact, the left acquired a dominant position in europe after the demise of the soviet union. the christian democratic, conservative, republican parties have capitulated to the left agenda, which i find rather pathetic, and as a result, the spirit of communism lives on in europe. it has been recycled, it has been garnished, has been updated, has been slightly civilised, remodelled, but it is there alright. the left always had totalitarian temptations and no wonder they continue the policies which i remember very well from my young days living in a communist society. today we are more and more in the grip of one correct ideology, with political correctness running wild. we had a sample of it here, right here at this session. we tend to create a new form of de facto one party system which is called political mainstream. again, we had a sample of it this afternoon. we have militant, aggressive, secularist and barbaric social engineering. again, these were the trademarks of the communist system. we have a neo-marxists very much alive and kicking today. so all this considered, ladies and gentlemen, the anniversary is fine. we all remember those great days, but it is not the time for sentimental ruminations and it is not time for political self righteousness. it is time for a revision, and i mean it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not unfortunately, given the current state of the debate, not all speakers have been up to the task. but i would like to thank those who have expressed their views here. it's like someone pushed open the windows. after all these years of stagnation. the intellectual, economic, political, and cultural sectors. this was said by stefan heym at the great demonstration on berlin's alexanderplatz on november 4, 1989. with the fall of the berlin wall five days later, the iron curtain that had separated eastern and western europe economically, militarily and, not least, ideologically, also fell in pieces. it is the decisive merit of the east germans, who demonstrated for months for democracy and freedom, that we can have this debate here today - 30 years later - in the european parliament. thank you for that, too. mr president, i myself was born in east berlin and saw the wall as a child. it also gives me the opportunity to tell a more nuanced story than the two speakers before me. the vast majority of east germans, according to the german government's latest report on the state of german unity, are dissatisfied with the way german unity and the post-war period have developed. why would you do that? i would like to give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. east germans still have to work more hours a week and earn less than their west german counterparts. eastern germany has the largest low-wage sector in the european union, measured in national terms. that means that 30 years after the political change, we need a social change, not just for germany, but for the whole of the european union. but it is not just social and economic development that still draws borders that should have disappeared long ago. it is also the mistakes that have been made in recent years in relations between east and west - and i do not mean just east and west germany, but also between east and west europe. i will give you another example, that of the writer stefan heym, whom i quoted at the beginning. he comes from a german-jewish family. he escapes the nazis to the united states as an antifascist and returns to germany as a soldier of the us army to liberate germany from national socialism. 1952 he is a us citizen he decides to settle in the gdr and he is already an internationally recognized writer . in 1994, a few years later, after the change, after the fall of the wall, he was elected to the bundestag as a non-party member on my party's list and became its president-in-office, and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the conservative group left the chamber closed when he was elected. mr. schäuble, you will remember this. i think that's a big historical mistake. i think it was a cultural break. these are the stories of victory and defeat. these are the stories of life that need to be told and heard today, also to stop the attempts of the extreme right to take over the history of german unity, the history of the fall of the wall, the history of european unification, as we have unfortunately had to witness again today. the people of hungary, poland, czechoslovakia and, last but not least, the gdr wanted a future in an open, peaceful and free europe. they are, on the contrary, for a europe of the past, of nationalism and of new walls. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of a great europe, but also a great europe that is not only a great europe, but a great europe.
mr. chairman, the fall of the berlin wall is one of the greatest events in modern european history. the brave german citizens of east germany, under that regime which was extremely repressive, were not afraid to go out into the streets and unitedly bring down the berlin wall. the fall of the berlin wall opened the way to a new, modern europe. it has enabled many other nations and peoples to become free and independent in their own countries. the independence of the republic of croatia was unfortunately paid for with more than twenty thousand citizens killed. however, a great opportunity has been created to create a modern europe where we can all live with dignity. the european union is a prerequisite for the creation of a modern democratic europe. however, we must be aware that even 30 years after the berlin wall fell, there are some new walls between member states. on croatia's borders is a barbed wire fence set up by the other two european union members, slovenia and hungary. there's something like that for every conviction. we must protect the borders together. besides the barbed wire, we have another wall, and that is the schengen wall. all member states must be within the schengen area. otherwise, we cannot consider ourselves equal and equal members of the european union. so i call on you to accelerate the entry of all countries into the european union and to become equal in this respect.
dear vice president, children have always been the most vulnerable group in any society. today, thirty years after the adoption of the convention, but in a world of accelerated technological and social change, this may be particularly apparent. and so society has a special role to play in protecting the best interests of the child, but also in creating a positive environment in which every child will be able to develop as a whole person. so as a father myself, i recognize the important role that society plays in supporting parents. this includes additional investment in nurseries, kindergartens, schools, education and health institutions, but the family environment largely determines the environment in which a child develops and therefore parents need to be helped first, especially in the most vulnerable first months and years of life. in a modern democratic society, parents, not the state, play the leading role in child rearing. it means responsibility, but it also means right. and in a world where digital innovation is an integral part of our lives, we must not forget the emotional, psychological and social aspects of child development, because that is precisely what no technology can replace. we need to do more here in the european union to better protect children.
madam president, i will try to give a geopolitical perspective in my discussion of the situation in bolivia. i want to start by saying that i am against any foreign intervention and that we must, as in the case of venezuela, give the people of bolivia the opportunity to solve this problem themselves and to find their own way. evo morales has committed one mortal sin in his long political career, because he has been in power since 2006, and that mortal sin is that he has used, or exploited, the resources of his bolivian state for the benefit of his bolivian people. this is something that the imperialists, especially the american establishment, which has constantly, so we know what the us policy has been towards central and south america for decades, is trying to undermine. it is in the service of this establishment that jackals are undermining sovereign states, and these structures are working under the guise of democracy and will always have democracy, but they are not interested in democracy. they're interested in political influence and control of resources. they use coups, invasions, sanctions, funding radical groups. however, it should be said why this is happening here and now, because of lithium. lithium is the element of the future. it's used in electronics, batteries, laptops, electric vehicles and so on. there's a power struggle going on in the lithium triangle. so there's 50% of lithium production, 50% to 70% of the world's resources. the plan of industrialization that evo morales had was to build 14 factories by 2024, and 40 by 2030. whether it will be built now and who will get rich in lithium, whether it will be the bolivian people, i doubt.
madam president, i would like to devote one minute to the issue of freedom, because it is the fundamental value of democracy, and we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and the fall of communism. i think there's something to celebrate. the iron curtain divided europe for four decades, and totalitarian regimes fell because they collapsed, they were not competitive. for 30 years, we have been removing borders between us, we have been uniting virtually across the continent, and we are deliberately removing the barriers that existed between member states. cooperation, compromise, these are our values, the values of our community. what challenges are ahead? the union is strong, even as brexit weakens the entire continent. the challenges that we face are to embrace the balkan states, to give them a future, not to divide but to unite, to guarantee security and prosperity and of course a favourable environment for the citizens. of course, we cannot forget solidarity as a fundamental european value and the value of freedom.
madam president, working together, trade unions across europe have won many rights for workers that are now enshrined in european law: from paid holiday for all, to new protections for precarious workers. brexit poses a direct threat. since 2010, the tories have rolled back everything else, but they couldn’t touch these rights. johnson’s withdrawal agreement scraps the commitment to a level playing field, removing that last obstacle to full exploitation and they’re not shy about it. dominic raab and priti patel have been explicit that rights at work are red tape that need cutting, and look at the tories’ new bedfellows: farage famously took aim at increased maternity protection when it was voted on in this house. farage and johnson are in this together and be in no doubt that they’re coming after your rights at work. don’t let them near the scissors.
madam president, i come from istria and i know how important international cooperation is, cross-border cooperation in a field. of course, i'm not just talking about projects and demonstrations, i'm talking about infrastructure. when i talk about infrastructure, we have great examples at the european union level, the interreg programme, which has funded over 60 very valuable projects. when we talk about istria, we have a great example of cooperation and connection between two water systems: the istrian water system from the croatian part of istria and the ridgean water system from the slovenian part of istria. what we need now is a road connection, a connection of the istrian ipsilon on the one hand to the slovenian motorway network to reduce congestion during the tourist season. that is why i am asking that cohesion policy not be cut and that is why i am asking for an item like this to be included in the budget, on the 21st and 27th, so that we can reduce congestion during the tourist season and make life and work easier and more comfortable for our people living in istria.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, the improvised camp vučjak, just 6 kilometres from the croatian border, on the site of a former waste dump, has directly contributed to a significant deterioration of the humanitarian situation. despite all efforts, the living conditions of migrants in bosnia and herzegovina remain completely unacceptable, and irregular migration flows have increased on the only land-based migration route to the european union. this is unfortunately felt by migrants, but also by the citizens of bihac and the entire border area. the reason for this situation is uncontrolled and illegal entry into bosnia and herzegovina due to a lack of capacity, which is openly acknowledged by the heads of the border police of bosnia and herzegovina, but unfortunately also sometimes a lack of will. therefore, today croatia is suffering from one of the highest burdens of migration pressure in the whole of the european union. recently, we have also faced attempts to apply political pressure to the commitment to protect europe's borders. general, unsubstantiated or unverifiable allegations of alleged inhumane treatment of migrants are very likely to be in the discussion today. however, we must not give in to targeted pressure because we have a duty to all european citizens to protect the longest land border of the european union. of course, we will continue to respect the rights and dignity of migrants and help save their lives in the dangerous situations that human traffickers bring them, as we have seen in recent days in the shocking examples.
i have to tell you, mr. chairman, that i come from the city of karlovy vary, which is about 50 kilometers from the una-sana canton. the question is why we are talking about a crisis in this area here today. very simply, why is the camp here? because the migrants know that's a place they can pass through. i went to these places, i went to the una valley, i went to lika, the karlovy region, i went to gorski kotar and the policemen who guard these crossings, who guard these bridges, who guard these roads all told me in turn: "we are too few, how many hundreds of kilometers of border. we cannot control it", contrary to what the minister and the prime minister say. the people who live in this area, say in the beguine plain, there's a lot of mountain homes that have been destroyed, tourism has declined, cycling, and it's a very poor area, a sparsely populated area, and it's the last "green branch" that they live on. it should be said that the only lasting solution to this problem, and it is estimated that the population of africa alone will increase from the current 1.3 billion to 2.5 billion, is to restore normal living conditions in all countries of africa and asia. what does that mean, "i'm not"? first, peace. stop bombing syria, stop bombing libya, stop undermining other sovereign nations. second, it means the end of exploitation. there is a long list of corporations that exploit the countries of africa for various mineral resources, and in this new program, the new policy should be spearheaded by those countries that have been colonial powers in the area for centuries. if we don't do that, this problem, this humanitarian crisis, will never end.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. chairman, you mentioned illegal pushbacks, so please present evidence to support your claims. as far as i know, no competent institution has found that the action is contrary to european regulations, contrary to international law. in fact, the republic of croatia respects all its obligations arising from european law, which i would particularly stress. so please provide evidence for your claims, which are not some kind of reports from some kind of ngos that have a very clear political agenda.
blue-card question. – these allegations are completely false and unconfirmed. because of that i firmly believe that this kind of political pressure is actually trying to change the policy of the croatian government, which is effectively protecting the european borders. i can understand both points of view but we have to distinguish correctly between political pressure and completely undocumented and false allegations.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. chairman, i'd like to ask you why you're spreading false information. there is no confirmed, definitive evidence of any illegal action by croatia, not a single piece of evidence. there are all kinds of false reports from various interest groups that push their political interests through it, but it's all disinformation, it's fake news. croatia is acting in accordance with european regulations, protecting the european external border, the longest external border of the european union, acting in accordance with international law, so i would pray that the stories about pushbacks are not repeated here in the european parliament because they are simply not true.
mr president, the migration crisis is currently one of the european union's biggest problems. the so-called balkan route, which crosses bosnia and herzegovina and croatia and has the longest external border of any eu member state, is indeed something to be discussed. unfortunately, this discussion was not too serious, on the other hand, from the left side of the room we heard a lot of disinformation, lies, fake news, accusations without any cover, which are based only on any unverified reports of various associations that do not represent anyone, that are not competent authorities and that have absolutely no legitimacy. there is no evidence that croatia is in breach of european law and there is no evidence that croatia is in breach of international legal standards. in fact, croatia is the one that fulfills its obligations, which is part of the schengen entry process, for which croatia has received the green light from the european commission to meet the technical conditions, and it is croatia that protects the external border of the european union from illegal migration. humanitarian approach yes, protection of human rights yes, but also stop illegal migration we protect the european border, we protect european law.
madam president, we know that migration is one of the main topics being discussed in the european union today. however, apart from external migration and migration from third countries, which is very much discussed, we must not forget internal migration, which is particularly important migration between the countries of central and eastern europe on the one hand and the countries of western and northern europe on the other. these migrations can be a big problem, especially for countries like croatia, which have just entered and are just now facing this, and especially for rural, less developed areas from which many young people, many professionals, especially in those areas where they are competitive in the labor market such as health. the only way to combat this brain drain is development, and there is no development in countries like croatia without cohesion policy and european funds. unfortunately, in this sense, the european commission's proposal to reduce cohesion policy funding is not a good message. it speaks against the solidarity on which the european union is founded and i think we should oppose it. in other words, yes to cohesion, yes to increased resources, yes to solidarity, not to reduction of resources.
madam president, given the programme of this week, i guess this is a good opportunity to express my thanks and appreciation to the commission of mr jean-claude juncker and the work of mr donald tusk. i guess that the future can better judge how much they did for our united europe, but in my view the benchmark for the next team is very high. let me go to the council programme and both points of the programme are points of very high importance. but there are some points that are even more important. this is the ability to work together, to cooperate and find good solutions that will allow us to solve the problems that are standing behind us and that must be, or should be, solved on a european level. so far, we have been able to successfully demonstrate unity in many matters; let me mention brexit, let me mention the russian sponsored war in ukraine, or maybe dealing with the trade issues with donald trump’s administration. but in other matters we are not working so well, for example not only in financial matters but in very important issues in the area of foreign policy, like the case of albania and macedonia, the issues that are making us weaker and can make our neighbourhoods less safe. on the climate issue, i fully support the view that europe should play a central role in efforts to reduce the climate risk. this is a matter of responsibility, a matter of important transformation of our economy and an issue that can be very beneficial for our future. we should act decisively but we should respect, in my view, some principles. first of all, our policy should be evidence-based, should be based on the impact assessment analysis and studies. we should favour the market approach and technological neutrality. second, it is good to set ambitious long-term targets, but it’s even more important to deliver on existing targets because only through fulfilling our promises can we reach the long-term goals. last, but not least, predictability and fair conditions for our businesses are very key. if the rules are predictable businesses can adjust and we also should make sure that there will be a level playing field for our businesses, maybe through the introduction of some equaliser like a border adjustment tax. i guess we can succeed. we can employ new technologies. we can, if we set the rules, we will benefit, we will benefit substantially but only if we make a good policy. last, on financial issues, i just want to say that money is money but time is also money. i call on the council to find, as soon as possible, good compromise solutions because the cost of delay is substantial. let me also say that if climate is the key priority, it should be fully respected in our financial plans. i hope the council will act according to the principle that if we act together we are stronger, if not we are weaker. i prefer the first one, i hope the commission and council do too.
i don't know how much we are to blame for everything that is happening around us, for these temperatures, for the situation in venice, for climate change, but i do know that we are the last generation that has time to remedy this situation, that we are the ones who must take responsibility. and there are two ways to do that, with funding and with the law. that is why i ask that the 2020 budget and all subsequent budgets take this into account. of course, agricultural policy is important, cohesion policy is important for less developed countries, but i am asking that at least 25% of the budget does finance the fight against climate change and digitalisation. what i said is equally important and what we have in our hands are laws, but not just to make laws but to impose sanctions and penalties on those who do not comply with the provisions of all these laws. when we talk about funds, we have to think and act with two different funds. one is a fund that enables energy transition to clean energy sources and the other is a fund for remediating the damage of elementary disasters because they're already happening. when we talk about one of the fundamental policies of the european union, one of them is the enlargement policy. i think the decision to not give the green light to north macedonia and albania is a big, big, incredible initial mistake by the european union, a mistake that brings victory to right-wing populist parties. that is why i am asking for this mistake to be corrected, for europe to be the europe i believe in again, an open, tolerant europe, one that includes other member states. and last but not least, tonight there was a big, terrible earthquake in albania. i'm not saying that you are to blame, but you are for the political upheaval that is happening in albania and north macedonia, but we are going to help albania. let us show heart, means and great humanitarian aid i ask to be directed to albania. now and now.
the good news, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have reached agreement on how we will turn our declared political priorities into reality in the next year, the last year of the current multiannual financial framework. this document is therefore, in a way, also an indicator of the direction of the next seven-year budget. the modern challenges - demographic, technological, climate change - that we are witnessing must be adequately recognised in the european budget. by investing in new technologies, competitiveness and development, we are keeping up with the times and creating programmes for the future and for the new generations. by strengthening key programmes such as research, innovation, investment in infrastructure, but also environmental protection or the fight against cancer, we are also working to bridge new priorities. at the same time, we must continue to invest in the successful, traditional and fundamental policies of the european union, such as cohesion policy, in order to continue to reduce the economic and social disparities that exist within the european union. i have a responsibility towards all europeans to continue to reduce such disparities, in order to realise the full potential of the whole european union, all its regions and all its citizens.
i am very pleased that this very topical issue is on the agenda of the european parliament today. climate change and weather extremes are indeed a reality and are having increasingly severe consequences for the economy and for the lives of the member states of the european union as a whole. the projections indicate that southern and southeastern europe and the mediterranean coast are particularly at risk. in addition to venice, which has suffered this damage of more than one billion euros according to the latest estimates, the republic of croatia is particularly affected. in fact, the republic of croatia is one of the three countries in the european union that has suffered the most damage from weather extremes between 1980 and 2015, estimated at nearly three billion euros. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way, and the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. i hereby call on the european union and the european institutions to take all the necessary measures to deal with this problem because it is indeed something that the member states cannot solve on their own. subsidiarity is important, the sovereignty of the member states is important, but the european union also has the instruments that can help those countries that need it, based on the christian principle of solidarity. there is a regulatory framework where the european union can do a lot, but there are also all these sources of funding that we have mentioned, and so is cohesion policy. so i call for solidarity between the countries of the european union, i call for action by the european institutions to solve this problem and to show solidarity towards the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner candidates, you are running today for leading the european union: a union that started out as a project of peace, of democracy, of human rights – a fantastic project. whereas, right now, if we look around us, thousands of people are drowning at our borders. more than five women get killed by their partners every day. and a union where some of the member states are turning away from these basic values of democracy, of rule of law and of freedom that so many of the european citizens have fought so hard for. a union that risks to fail in the face of the climate crisis, thereby risking the livelihood of the younger generation and future generations. but it’s also a union with a great potential to be the front-runner for climate protection, to be the place of innovation and for visionaries; the continent that would stand up for its values and for human rights, be it at home or in the world. so today, the question is: will the new commission, will you be ready to fulfil those potentials? will you be able to meet the challenges of the environmental, social and democratic crisis that we do have in europe right now? this will take courage. it will take conviction. during the hearings we’ve heard conviction in some of you, but not in all of you, and not on all topics. how, for example, is the commission going to deliver an ambitious climate-protection programme if there is no will to change the agricultural and the trade policy? i can tell you that this is not going to work. green headlines are just not enough. we need ambitious content. we need an ambitious agenda, and without a deep reform of the agricultural policy and of the trade agenda, any climate policy must remain half-hearted. and we just don’t have the time for that. (applause) let me point out some other problems as well. it is an unprecedented situation that the boss of one of the biggest it companies in europe will be a commissioner for the internal market, including the digital economy, and thus overseeing the area his former company is one of the biggest players in. we acknowledge and we appreciate even the steps that mr breton has committed himself to undertaking in order to minimise the conflict of interest, but we do think that the conflict of interest here is inherent in his portfolio, and he didn’t have a voice over that. but we do think that this is a big, big problem and that the digital market should have been removed from his portfolio. and as greens, we cannot accept this sort of conflict of interest, which risks our reputation as eu institutions. another big problem lies, unfortunately, with our commissioner from hungary, sent to us with best regards from mr orbán. how can somebody who represents a government that is constantly undermining and breaking eu law and values, how can someone like that be telling countries that want to join the european union that they absolutely have to follow rule of law and european law? that is cynical. (applause) i believe that hardly anything embodies the european spirit as much as our integration policy. the idea that countries are willing and eager to join the european union, to join our common union built on peace, democracy and freedom: that is the flame burning for us in europe. and what are we telling those countries that are right now willing to change their policies, even their name? we’re telling them that they’re not important, that their voice doesn’t matter, that their aspirations don’t matter. i think we have made enough mistakes in that area recently. let’s not add another. (applause)president von der leyen, we have raised those issues continuously. this is nothing new to you, but it’s really for those reasons that we cannot support your commission. but we are willing to work with the commission in order to strengthen european democracy and human rights; in order to tackle the climate crisis and to foster european integration. whenever you and your college take initiatives in that regard, we are more than eager to cooperate with you, to work together with you. you will find in us a constructive partner, but rest assured that we will also be critical if you don’t. you can count on that. colleagues, it is time for us to act: climate cannot wait, social inequality cannot wait to be resolved. and we hope that this commission will surprise us in many positive ways, and we’re willing to give you a head start in that as well. thank you very much. good luck.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our position today is based on a fact. the data is that of the debate we have heard and also of the many proclamations and indications that have emerged from this debate. but there is one starting point that is ignored, or even exalted and emphasized: the work of the juncker commission. the commission has been so slow in finding political solutions over the last five years that, when it has found them, it has come up with problems which have been totally and profoundly changed. so we also have to think about the political issue that caused this, an issue that comes back in stages. yesterday a document was proposed by france and germany which goes back to the previous model, that is to say, the juncker commission's management, that is to say, exactly the approach which has led to these negative results. to this is added a second question, which is equally important: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. it is not the same thing, madam president, to have a different approach, critical or polemical or alternative to nato, within these institutions. we need to clarify these positions. we want the commission and the president to be clear on this. and then there are the themes. the president of the commission's speech certainly is a forward-looking programme, a programme which aims to solve all the big issues that are on the table, but we must also be realistic. what do you mean, "what"? the just transition fund. what do you mean, "what"? the issue of cutting emissions should not be included in the argument of environmental extremism, but we should try to put some firm points in the field. 9% of global emissions are produced in europe, over 40% between the us and china. and what is our industrial policy question? what is our aim and our response to the world of work, to the choices that must be made in this direction? then there is the european budget and the multiannual financial framework. we want to do everything: the green deal, the agricultural policies, the cohesion policies. what do you mean, "what"? when and how will we tackle the budgetary knot? what answers will there be to this question? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is the subject of the debate, is a very important one. so we need clarity on these points, as i want to touch, finally, on the subject of immigration. his call, his reference to the tragic event of the 39 dead inside a truck is certainly a sobering fact. but here is a failure of this policy, because on november 21, 67 migrants died in the mediterranean sea, and since january 2019 a thousand have died. what is the immigration strategy? what's the policy? the question is whether we should promise more resources in the budget to be able to increase and support the border police or whether we should have a strategy to give a real and serious response, in which we make everything responsible overall and put and solve the problem in those places from which immigrants leave, and certainly not in the final stage in which they arrive? these are the knots we tie. our group has a different position, and i am not making a secret of this, because, as is well known, we have a party within us which also represents a commissioner. that said, our approach will be realistic: we shall examine the issues you are facing, point by point, the action and the things said, and we shall take action and make a contribution to this, where this contribution is useful for improvement. where we realise that a strategy will emerge that is far from our positions, we will clearly be in opposition.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mrs von der leyen, we have a problem: you have promised everything you can to everyone today and also in the past months. so you're talking about investing up to a trillion euros in a green new deal, and at the same time you're talking about massive investments in the digital transformation of the economy and society. but you have not yet been able to resolve the contradiction inherent in all these statements: how are you going to implement your political plans if you continue to adhere to the wrong austerity and cuts policy? mrs von der leyen, your political programme will fail if the austerity policy is not ended and the states are not finally able to invest again. and, mrs von der leyen, another europe is possible, but our visions of europe and the paths that lead to it are different. peace is not achieved by armaments and the militarization of european foreign policy, but by imposing a moratorium on arms exports and by pursuing international disarmament. social justice is not achieved by deregulating labour markets but by enforcing binding social standards that protect against poverty and guarantee dignity. environmental protection does not require flowery promises, but an ambitious policy to limit global warming to 1.5°c and to reduce co2 emissions by 70% by 2030. the tax evasion of large corporations is not stopped by referring to the oecd, but by imposing effective corporate taxes and closing tax havens. and human rights and human lives are not protected by a deadly policy of closure at europe's external borders, but by a european civil sea rescue mission. madame von der leyen, today may the eyes of the public rest upon you. in the left group in the european parliament you will find a powerful, determined, creative, democratic opposition which - and i promise you this here - will look to you and your commission every day for the next five years in your policy and will work in the interests of europeans to change course, to make a different europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, madam president-elect, europe needs a government now. we have already lost too much time and the citizens are asking us for answers they can no longer wait for. we're not gonna lie to you. not all of your team is convincing. during the auditions, we saw huge conflicts of interest, heard too many distinguishes, too many ifs, too many buts. we, on the other hand, expect only a 'yes' from your commission. yes to the mandatory relocation of migrants, yes to the reform of the stability pact, yes to green investment, yes to "made in" to protect our businesses. it is thanks to these priorities that you have received our confidence in july. but now the citizens expect firm and concrete action. there are thousands of workers who are at risk of losing their jobs because of the overproduction of steel? well, we use the just transition fund for steel as well as coal. is climate change destroying italy? we are reacting by excluding from the stability pact funds for reconstruction and hydrogeological prevention. i conclude by saying that the five star movement will evaluate every decision and every measure on the merits. our yes today is not a blank check.
mr president, madam president of the commission! they made a convincing start in july and have again today presented a convincing programme - a very balanced programme. i congratulate you on that. today, 30 years after the fall of the berlin wall, we are still witnessing the flourishing of corruption in some member states of the european union, the endangerment of the rule of law, and the fear for the lives and even the murder of journalists. i appreciate your pointing that out. we must really work to ensure that the rule of law, peace and freedom prevail throughout the european union - and beyond. good luck and thank you! thirdly, we have touched on the subject of security. for years, the european union has relied on the united states to guarantee its security. we are seeing that, unfortunately, they are not doing that everywhere any more, that we have to bring order to our own neighbourhoods and make sure that civil wars do not break out and that hundreds of thousands of people are killed and displaced, and that we have to take responsibility ourselves. i am very much in favour of your putting emphasis on this. fourthly, the issue of climate change. i'm very grateful to you. yeah, we need a green deal. but you have pointed out that it cannot be one-sided green. a lot of people are afraid of that. that's what people are afraid of, the people who are on the tapes in the factories. this is something that people in rural areas fear, because they feel disconnected. this is something that is frightening to farmers, who are asking themselves, how are we going to bring food production and all of these things together? you said, we have to make this sustainable, we have to bring all the aspects together. we must not frighten people, but we can confidently tell people: we have a plan, we have orientation, we have ideas for the future. i am grateful to you for this and i would be delighted if we could build an open and confident commission and an open and confident european union in the years to come.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von del leyen, commissioners, today's vote is the beginning of a new era. the commitments which you, mr president, have made and which we wholeheartedly support from tomorrow must be translated into measures to improve the quality of life of our citizens. and i 'm going to press it: we will be loyal but very demanding in checking compliance with your programme. we will not make discounts, we will increase the ambition. with the last european elections, despite the nationalist wind, citizens have shown that they still have faith in the union project, but this is the last call. it's up to us now not to disappoint their expectations. president von der leyen, commissioners, paraphrasing - if i may - a famous phrase of a hero of italian unity, 'europe is made here or it is destroyed'. we have a huge job ahead of us to do in europe. you mentioned a number of challenges. i want to focus on three key words: sustainability, inclusiveness, social justice. this is the way to go. we must therefore aim decisively and unambiguously at socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable development as the only asset today to boost economic competitiveness, create new quality jobs and preserve the planet, leaving no one behind. this will require a new approach to economic governance that is growth-oriented, not only by revising criteria and benchmarks but also by incorporating social and environmental sustainability from the european semester onwards. and above all, to implement this programme, we need an adequate budget: without resources, we risk being left with only good intentions. the socialist and democratic group will do its part. we will be ready to work on every measure without any hesitation, demonstrating day by day to each of the citizens we represent that the european union is the best guarantee for the future of us all.
madam president, it’s a pleasure to be here, and dr von der leyen, the scottish national party will support your commission this morning. we believe the domestic context with brexit has coloured our thinking. colleagues, i have to say frankly to you that the world looks different when you face the prospect of your country being removed against your democratic will from this family of nations. you look at the big picture, not the minutiae. but dr von der leyen, we do need a new dynamism in europe. for too long it’s been too easy to present the european commission as stale, out of touch, uncaring. i truly do hope that you and your new college do bring a new energy to the european union. madam president, in my last speech in this house – i’m a candidate for the westminster election within the uk for sterling constituency; scotland’s problems are not coming from this place, they’re coming from westminster – and if i win, i must leave this place. remember this: you are a blessed generation. cherish europe. it is an amazing achievement. with all its faults, never forget what an amazing project you are part of. it’s not perfect, but never take it for granted. learn from our experience: reversal is also possible. and if scotland is taken out of our european union against our will, we’ll be back, and we count on you. (applause)
madam president, you have managed to balance a very difficult task of compromise in the allocation of the portfolio and even in the allocation of the titles (of the commissioners' portfolios). the result, of course, is a portfolio that is more like a backpack with cherries in it and is much larger than the others, but that is not the main thing. you can also count on the support of a large part of the european conservatives and reformists group if you maintain the principle of a single market without protectionism, the levelling of the quality of life across the european union, if environmental policy does not weigh on the global competitiveness of european businesses. the most important, madam president, is the so-called geopolitical commission, and it's the same as was said by the very important country president recently in some interviews. but if the navigation of this geopolitical commission is in the same direction, it's caused some troubles. if we are going to erode our transatlantic cooperation and instead create new links with aggressive countries in the east which occupied some other european countries only because they decided to go west, i think it creates a dangerous geopolitical development in your commission. please be careful in this direction.
the interests of multinationals, mr president, are diametrically opposed to the interests of people, animals, nature and the environment. we see this in the energy transition, for example, and we see it in the authorisation of harmful pesticides and gmos. the european commission has a lot of power in this area, and it is therefore crucial that the euro commissioners are independent. how on earth is it possible that people with financial interests in multinationals like bayer-monsanto or oil and gas companies, companies that spend millions of euros to manipulate european policy, are being brought forward? and then there is the proposed climate commissioner, mr timmermans, who denies that a reduction in the livestock industry is necessary to combat climate change, when this is already an undeniable fact. it is disappointing that the ambitions of this commission are totally inadequate to solve the biodiversity and climate crises. the party for the animals therefore has little confidence in this commission, but multinationals certainly do.
the commission's work is not only a matter of the commission's own resources, but also of the commission's own resources. however, one would get the impression that you seek excellence, excellence in all areas, so i wonder then, from my croatian point of view, why you gave croatia a commissioner or a commissioner for demography. the croatian establishment since it took over croatia has lost, i might say, a million inhabitants. this is a disaster. in some parts of croatia, in slavonia, in the last six years, we have lost one in five, or one in four, of our students. that's a losing record. from my point of view, it doesn't make sense that someone who knows so little and is so skilled in demography is leading the demography of all of europe. however, this paradox is easily explained. from your perspective, from berlin when you look, the position of the demographic commissioner of croatia is a reward for the croatian establishment that has filled german cities with a minimum of 50,000 inhabitants per year according to scientific research. if this continues, only pensioners and politicians will remain in croatia, not to mention that next year austria opens its doors and expects another 200,000 emigrants. where's the biosafety? we are talking about climate sustainability. where is the biosecurity of the member countries?
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, you mentioned that some countries have unfortunately taken a step backwards in protecting democracy and human rights. i am interested to know whether you think the european union has done enough to help them, whether it has been consistent enough in its support for these countries, and do you think that the european union has a single policy and that we can hope in the future for a truly single policy of the european union in support of these countries?
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, i am very pleased that you, as i understand it, praise the european union's foreign policy and advocate common solutions and common interests. in view of this and in the light of what you have just said, do you think that the european union's powers in foreign policy should be strengthened so that this foreign policy is even stronger and so that it can strengthen relations with these countries you have just mentioned?
madam president, we are celebrating ten years of the eastern partnership and we can say that this programme has indeed proved successful. of course, it wasn't easy. the fact is that eurasia is a region where the key interests of the world's geopolitical players intersect, where more than 70% of the world's population lives, where 75% of the world's energy reserves are located. and of course russia and china and many other countries see their interest in this, and the european union should of course define its own. in this sense, indeed, good results have been achieved, but unfortunately we see that in some countries we have the reverse process, that certain democratic standards are being eroded and that the process of adopting western standards of democracy and human rights protection is unfortunately not going as we might all together should. i would like to send three messages here that i think the european union should do, which principles should guide its policy. first, she has to be unique. we must not allow individual geopolitical interests of some eu member states to prevent the achievement or undermine the credibility of a common european policy. this unity, this definition of common interests is the only way for the european union to be a serious player on the world stage. secondly, the european union must be clear and open, without a fig in its pocket. it needs to clearly define its interests and thus approach those pro-european and pro-western forces in these countries in an open and transparent way. and thirdly, the european union must deliver on its promises. without fulfilling the promises, without honoring those results that are achieved in individual countries in the long run, those countries will lose any motivation to get closer to europe, to get closer to the west. of course, we should condemn the negative phenomena, but we should also honor all those positive things. and i would stress that no one is good just because they are pro-western, politically or in words, but it should be shown by deeds. by respecting all the standards on which the european union is founded and which we all defend, namely the rule of law and the protection of human rights, democracy and freedom.
mr president, we have already criticised deforestation in countries outside the european union on several occasions. now we have to deal with this problematic issue, unfortunately, on our own level. and here in the european union, too, it's about life. in romania, two forestry workers were recently killed by the so-called mining mafia. i find it absolutely unacceptable that such events should take place anywhere in the world, and it is absolutely shocking that they should take place here on the soil of the european union. the madness is also that every day, every day, nine hectares of forest disappear in romania, and we sit and watch. i take it that the paris climate agreement is just a piece of paper that we're discussing, but it means practically nothing to us, and if we can demand its enforcement, we don't do it? because that's exactly what it looks like. we're teaching everyone around us and we're not able to clean up our own house. commissioner, i urge you to take very active action against what is happening in romania and to take very active action to ensure that not only do we not have murders, but above all that we do not lose such a precious forest. my condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones.
mr president, i call on all members of the european parliament, and in particular the 20 of us in the chamber, to protect the forests of the european continent. a colleague mentioned the wood mafia earlier. the wood mafia exists in the republic of croatia. let me explain this with a few numbers: in the three decades since croatia was founded, we have reforested 1,500 square kilometers of forests through eight different methods of reforestation. it's questionable how much of that has been received, but that's statistics. in just one decade, we've illegally cut a thousand square kilometers, so, with what we regularly cut, planar, legally, this is how much we've illegally cut, and this is minimal. that's a conservative estimate, you know. organized crime has taken over the management of croatian forests, they are cutting without any order or plan, they are not cutting the maquis, they are cutting the best, the most beautiful trees, which then go to other countries of the european union for no money. although more is being cut than ever, it has never been harder for croatian processors to get their hands on wood. the forests and large areas in croatia are increasingly resembling the surface of the moon, and the croatian state, as it is not able to deal with any mafia, unfortunately, is not able to deal with itself or with this mafia, so i call on all of you to protect the public good of all of us and to preserve the forests of the european continent.
the question he asked by raising his blue card. - mr. deputy motreanu, you mentioned the unresolved questions about who was responsible for the deaths of a large number of people during the romanian revolution. i'd like to expand on that and ask you a question. we know that ceauşescu's regime fell, we know what happened to the dictator, but did ceauşescu's fall mean the fall of the regime itself? are there still or were there after the revolution itself still communist cadres who remained influential in politics, in the media, in the universities, the old securitate cadres, etc., who were actually responsible for these crimes, and who, unfortunately, went unpunished? are there any more of these frames today? do you consider that a problem for your country at this time?
madam president, it is true that globalisation and the dematerialisation of purchases have led to the emergence of all kinds of fraudsters who are massively cheating on vat, to the extent that the gap between what should be perceived and what is actually collected, for europe, is €137 billion. for my own country, france, it is almost €12 billion, or three times the deficit of our pension system. this is huge. the text obviously refers to the member states, whose coordination is ineffective and whose tax administration is not sufficiently vigilant. but we also need to talk about the real culprits, namely all e-commerce operators. we are talking about online payment services, but i want to emphasise all the sales platforms such as amazon, alibaba, cdiscount, which are a real blind spot in our common thinking and which are absolutely not afraid to market products which are not subject to vat. for example, in france, 98% of those who go through amazon and its associates are not even registered for vat. we must therefore respond to the challenge, because we are dealing with real tax evaders, and europe cannot simply let these multinationals not pay taxes as they should.
madam chair, we're talking about tax fraud today. when we talk about tax fraud in croatia, we cannot but touch agrokor, a large corporation that went into insolvency proceedings two years ago, the largest of its kind in southeastern europe. it's a group of some seventy companies with about 60 thousand employees and on this example it has proven correct everything i have been saying since i entered politics, namely that there are double standards in croatia, that there is no rule of law and that there is no social justice in croatia. it turns out that if you know the right people, you can do whatever you want and no one can hurt you. let's take it one at a time. there are about 600 large taxpayers in croatia. in 20 years, 146 companies, 600 of them have never been audited. the tax inspector never set foot in there. many of these companies are from agrokor. in 252 companies there was never any control over the profit tax, in 378 companies there was never any control over the income and contributions, and finally, which is the topic of today, in 170 of these 600 companies there was never any control over the vat, although according to the tax laws the priority of the croatian state is precisely the tax control in large companies. that was not the case in practice. mr todoric, who owned agrokor, was given all kinds of concessions for years, so the reports were falsified, and all this was tolerated for decades. he was issuing coupons, bills of exchange without cover, and that's where the double standard came in. on the other hand, small taxpayers, especially the unsuitable ones, were regularly inspected, terrorized. all of this clearly shows that these measures are not enough and that croatia will remain the wild west and eldorado for tax evaders.
mr president, cancer is one of the biggest public health problems in the european union and indeed the world today. almost two million people die of cancer every year in europe, in the european union, and unfortunately, as many as 40% of these deaths could have been prevented if adequate measures had been taken. on the other hand, we know that health is a primary competence of the member states, and this is laid down in article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. on the other hand, this provision should not be an excuse for the european union to do nothing in the fight against cancer. today, the european union has many instruments, both financial and regulatory, to combat this problem. from better implementation of the cross-border health services directive, through investing in health-related scientific research through horizon, to cohesion policy, through which investments can be made in health infrastructure and in health workforce. in other words, today the european union has the instruments to fight cancer. we have the political atmosphere and the will on the part of the commission and parliament to do this and to make the effort so that we can really make something of it. let us show that the european union is not a bureaucratic monster but that it can really improve the lives of its citizens.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the new york times article on cap was not news to many people here. that makes it all the worse. eu citizens’ money is going where it should not be. much of this is by design and not by accident. convergence and a significant redistribution payment is the key to change. it is now the position of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) that countries will have to converge 100% internally on payments by 2027. this position must be supported in the plenary and be parliament’s position going into trilogue negotiations. two words in particular are important when it comes to convergence in the final text agreed on at trilogue: ‘shall’ or ‘may’. ‘may’ allows governments to continue with the very system which is so rightly criticised in the new york times article. ‘shall’ means they have no choice but to do the right thing. yesterday, ireland’s minister for agriculture announced a pause on convergence. this is a clear message on where he will stand during trilogue negotiations. he will demand a change to parliament’s position so that ireland will not have to fully converge on payments – and the great swindle that the new york times article reports on would continue if he succeeds. don’t let him succeed. i certainly won’t.
madam president! allow me to add three very brief statements to the debate. on the one hand, we know the wise hungarian saying that many speeches have many bottoms, if the european union institutions would do half as much to protect the financial interests of the union, to investigate conflicts of interest, to fight corruption, than they do to talk, we would have gone much further. i'm all for action. secondly, i believe that conflicts of interest in the member states can only be discussed credibly in the eu institutions if the functioning of the eu institutions is not affected by conflicts of interest. at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is giving a contract worth hundreds of thousands of euros to a hungarian family business whose husband is the leader of the opposition in the hungarian parliament and whose wife is a socialist mep and one of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. this is more than a conflict of interest, first the eu institutions have to sweep their own house. (the intervener agrees to answer two 'yellow card' questions (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much, mr. member, for your question, i did not mention any names, but if the honourable member is curious, i would like to confirm the serious conflict of interest to which you refer. the european commission has given a contract worth hundreds of thousands of euros to a hungarian family business, represented by one of its owners, gyurcsány ferenc, former socialist prime minister of hungary and now leader of an opposition group, and by another, dobrev klára, a member of the european parliament and one of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. this is a serious political conflict, we have to clean up our own house first, we have to clean up, and then we have the authority to deal with conflicts in the member states.
madam president, today's topic is conflicts of interest and corruption affecting the protection of the european union's financial interests in the member states. this is a very important issue to be addressed for the credibility of the european union and the state of democracy in the member states. we are talking about a phenomenon that is very old, but we have not yet been able to solve it, even here on the soil of the european union. we can talk about all the ways we can get out of this. but i believe that the first thing we need to do is to give citizens more room to participate in the european union's policies. enough of the secret negotiations, the democratic deficit and the so-called revolving door that connects business and the european institutions. the european union must be open and transparent, and i would then expect the same degree of transparency from the european union in relation to potential wrongdoing by member states and their representatives.
madam chair, we're talking about corruption and conflict of interest here today. i have to say that the fight against corruption in croatia is principled, it is not real. we, as far as conflict of interest is concerned, have a so-called asset card with a body called the conflict of interest commission and in that asset card, when you become an officer, you write down your liabilities and your assets. and now, that property card is practically useless. it sounds nice, it gets a lot of media attention, but it's actually pretty useless. why would you do that? here's an example. let's say you have ten apartments and you've just missed three apartments on that card. this is a huge problem. but even if you write down ten apartments, no one asks you where you got the ten apartments. were you able to use your salary, your income to buy those ten apartments? so, as far as the origin of the property goes, there's no "p" in there. besides, the origin of the assets is dealt with by the tax authorities, but not one cent of what you really need, in amount and quantity. as far as common policies are concerned, we have a common agricultural policy, an environmental policy, a monetary policy in the form of the eurozone, and so on. now it's about foreign policy, common defence policy... all these policies are generally not good for croatia. they're questionable, they're wrong. however, why is there no talk of a common anti-corruption policy? whoever has anything in this house, from any country, against us taking the best standards in whistleblower protection, in property origin, in conflict of interest -- finland, sweden -- best -- we all take them together. who doesn't want thieves caught in their own country? we haven't caught our thieves in croatia for 30 years. who's got something against high anti-corruption standards for everyone? just the criminals. (the ombudsman agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, i don't know if you can see the subject, but the subject is the use of european funds. in this regard, croatia is indeed one of the most strictly controlled countries in the european union. in fact, these controls may even be too cumbersome and overburden users in some areas. so as far as these other things and controls are concerned, croatia has one of the strictest laws in europe on preventing conflicts of interest. recently, the whistleblower protection act was passed. so why are you talking about things you have no connection with and deceiving this high house?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. your whistleblower protection law is not useless, it's turbo-usable. take all those whistleblowers who have lost their health and fortune since the founding of the country until today. ask each of them in turn what they think about the law. i asked them, and i know what they think about the law. regarding today's topic and the european funds... (the chairman interrupts the member and informs him that there is no interpretation, the member requests to be reimbursed for lost time after the translation problem is resolved) the whistleblower protection act your government passed is useless. ask the whistle-blower. from the founding of the state to today, from vesna balenovic onwards, who suffered greatly, lost property and health, what do they think of this law. as regards the european funds, i have extended the subject to other money, not just the european funds. ask around about the lng terminal. why is the european union, which boasts so much about the rule of law, funding a project that violates the zoning plans of both the city and county, the aarhus convention, the will of the local population of the city and the municipality. where's the justice? where are the european standards?
madam president, i am glad to have this debate today because corruption and conflict of interest are indeed a major problem in the european union today. it is estimated that corruption costs the european economy some 120 billion euros a year. however, i would agree with the previous speaker that the main problem is not the european funds. when we look at the analysis, just 2% of the european budget, or cohesion policy, is problematic in this sense, and a large percentage of it is error. when we talk about some kind of corruption, and it is european funds, we are really talking about promillums. it's a much bigger problem on a national level. i see that some colleagues want the european union to have even greater powers, as my predecessor has said, and to enter even more into the area of national autonomy in order to control the member states even more. but i don't think that's the way. i think that the member states themselves should take care of solving their problems, and not that the european union should impose certain solutions, but the same is true of the fact that, when we talk about the situation at european level, the problems are much smaller than at national level and therefore i think that this debate should not be used as an argument for reducing the resources from european funds. stronger controls yes, prevention of corruption yes, but cohesion policy and funds are still important for the development of the member states and we should not reduce them.
mr president, this is indeed a very important, extremely important issue, which speaks to the sustainability of the ecosystem and to the importance of pollinators. i'm not going to be the first to mention here that as much as 76 percent of food production depends on pollinators, but that's a fact that really needs to be highlighted, which may not be as well known to the public. there are many reasons for the decline in pollinators, but what's important is that in analyzing those causes, and also in analyzing how to combat them, we need to be based on science, on scientific facts and research, not on ideology. the second point i would like to make, and i take this opportunity to do so, is the role of beekeeping in the european union in general. i come from croatia, where high-quality honey is produced, but unfortunately, there are many problems. one of the main problems is the import of uncontrolled, fermented honey from other countries, third countries which are not member states of the european union, as well as the lack of data on the exact origin of honey and the mass proportion of honey from a single country in the case of mixed honey. so this uncontrolled import from third countries is a problem for our beekeepers, it is unfair competition and i think we definitely need to fight it here and protect our consumers and producers.
madam chair, today's health changes are obvious. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). of course, new technologies and digital technology can play a role here, both through the use of artificial intelligence to predict health conditions, and therefore prevention, through diagnostics, using european reference networks based on directive 2011/24, and through the use of new technologies for self-medication of patients. of course, there are many challenges, there's the issue of research and certain ethical issues related to it, there's the issue of privacy, or information protection, but also the investment in basic infrastructure which is, unfortunately, very lagging behind in some countries that are less developed than the average of the european union. in other words, the european union has the instruments to deal with this, it has the regulatory instruments, it has the financial instruments through cohesion policy, through the horizon programme, and i believe that with the political atmosphere that we have today we can really make progress in this regard.
madam president, we are asked: 'is the green pact compatible with the mercosur agreement?' for me, the answer is in the question, it is obviously no. and i am really astonished, but almost admired, by the right-wing colleagues who enthusiastically explain to us that, thanks to this agreement, mr bolsonaro will miraculously transform himself into a defender of the environment and indigenous peoples. that will not happen, ladies and gentlemen. so no, this agreement is not compatible. firstly, because the increase in export quotas for soybeans, ethanol, beef, poultry and sugar alone represents the equivalent of 9 million tonnes of greenhouse gases. no, it's not compatible because president bolsonaro's friends, the representatives of agribusiness, continue to burn the amazon - i believe that's 93% more fires this year. because when you read the text, you see that the precautionary principle is weakened and that this will expose europe to increasingly dangerous products. because we have seen the outcome of cop25 in madrid and brazil, along with other countries, has continually challenged the precautionary principle advocated by the europeans. so, of course, it is not compatible and i beg you, dear colleagues, do not be naive, or else do not be hypocritical.
madam chair, the world is changing fast and fast, and any policies based on violence are very unlikely to succeed. the climate extremes that we've heard about recently, at least we who are members of the environment committee, by the ipcc, we're told that climate extremes that were once expected every 100 years, can now be expected every year. a shocking fact, by scientists. according to the wwf, in the 50 years from 1970 to today, we as humans, as a species, have killed 60 percent of all animals, mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles. and we're doing very well with bees and other insects, which we discussed yesterday. until when will this hubris of the human race be replaced by humility and respect for our environment and nature? in seeking solutions for the future, for the 21st century, we must not be limited to the ideologies of the 20th, even the 19th century, economic, legal, political, left to right and all the rest. we as a species, if we want to survive, we must not only protect the amazon rainforest, we must reject hedonism, materialism, violence, exploitation of each other, we must reject war. so many trillions of dollars or euros, so many millions of hours of scientists' work go to war. let's use it to build peace. let's get rid of debt, debt slavery, the endless indebtedness of the state. the european green deal is not an adequate policy and we need to look much deeper and further. any policy based on violence and aggression cannot survive in the long term.
blue-card question. – i’m glad that i finally heard somebody from the left side of this parliament saying something about the actual causes of what happened. so my question is, are the regimes of chávez and maduro who caused poverty, hunger and everything that’s happening in venezuela, the ones to blame for this crisis?
madam president, i find it incredible that in the debate in this upper house on the left side of the chamber we have mostly listened to excuses, relativisation or simply silence about who is to blame and who is the main cause of this crisis. and that culprit should be named: it is a criminal, communist regime, first hugo chávez, and then now maduro. and that's a fact. british prime minister winston churchill said that socialism and communism produce poverty, only it is equally shared. and we see it here and now. in venezuela, we have witnessed the nationalization of private industry, currency and price controls, and the fiscally irresponsible expansion of welfare programs. as a result, food production in venezuela has declined by 75 percent in the past two decades. that's what happens when the state runs everything, when you use socialist methods that have proven to be unsuccessful, that have failed here in europe, and now we have it here. four and a half million people have unfortunately had to leave venezuela, and there will be more. in other words, let's name the perpetrators, let's name the culprits, condemn communism, condemn the criminal regime and may such things never happen again.
