thank you very much, congresswoman. i give the floor to mrs wiśniewska. i saw mr. sośnierz applying for a green card again. i'll be calling you to your speech soon enough, so allow me not to give you that opportunity now. mrs. wiśniewska, please.
thank you very much, congresswoman. i'm sorry i forgot, it would have been a real shame for this great speech. i now give the floor to mrs jourová on behalf of the commission, who, like our parliament, is committed to doing everything possible to promote equal opportunities for women. thank goodness, there are very strong female officers running the portfolios. there you go, miss safe.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is the debate on the report of the joint undertaking on the development of fusion energy and iter (2018/2222 (ini)) by mr marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0393/2018)
in writing. world energy consumption is increasing at an astonishing rate and is continuing to do so. fifty years ago, we were consuming a third as much energy as we do today, and the international energy agency predicts that demand will grow another 30 percent in the next 20 years, so we have no choice but to make arrangements for sustained capacity expansion. we need to bring in more and more new sources of energy, while our current consumption is not sustainable. this is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today, where we must ensure that more and more people have a better life, while protecting our future, so that our planet remains habitable for future generations. such a radical challenge is likely to be met with a radical solution, as fine-tuning the existing system is unlikely to be sufficient. one such solution is to release the energy of nuclear fusion. it's clean, plentiful and ubiquitous, but unfortunately, technically, it's not that simple. this mystery of nature is complex and uncertain, but if it can be solved, it could solve countless problems in one fell swoop. i think it is important to give proper support to fusion research, especially with regard to iter. these projects, built on decades of research by the world's leading scientists, have accumulated immeasurable knowledge, the value of which is invaluable for our future. like all basic research, it does not promise exact deadlines or quality guarantees, but the progress of science is just that.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. despite president juncker's serious doubts about romania's readiness for the eu presidency and the european parliament's strong condemnation of romania in the plenary debates for its serious violations of the democratic rule of law, the eu's leading dignitaries, on the occasion of the eu presidency in bucharest on 4 january, expressed their superlatives about the successful romanian presidency. pope francis is visiting romania this may. in line with the european leaders, his high-level visit, whether he wishes it or not, legitimises the post-communist regime in romania and the romanian government's corrupt policy of disenfranchisement of ethnic and religious minorities. in this regard, the september resolution of the roman catholic church states that where fundamental human and minority and religious rights are violated, the conditions for a papal visit are not guaranteed.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my colleagues, if we really want to help, we must be able to prevent thousands of migrants from risking their lives on their way to our continent. we must therefore make it clear that there is no illegal entry into europe. the networks and routes of traffickers in the mediterranean must be dismantled, because in the current situation, it cannot be allowed that traffickers decide who can come to europe. human trafficking has become one of the most prosperous business models, and european ngos are assisting in this, transporting migrants hundreds of kilometers to europe. africa's population is projected to double by 2050. this will obviously lead to a new wave of migration towards europe. so the problem will be with us for decades, it will stay with us. the mandatory distribution of migrants in the union cannot therefore solve this problem, nor can humanitarian or migrant visas. any misunderstanding is just a 'pull' factor, an incentive for young africans to go to europe in the hope of a better life, because they will be distributed there anyway. europe needs to be able to protect its external borders both on land and at sea, rather than manage situations that are being forced on by smugglers. this is what our electorate expects of us, all over europe in particular. we need to bring help to those in need, not bring the problem to europe. we must strengthen the population retention capacity of the third countries concerned.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the events of the past few weeks, the boats full of refugees vomiting in the mediterranean, are a perfect illustration of the situation we are in today. in a situation where some member states, out of political selfishness, stupid fear and hate politics, are refusing to sign a new dublin convention. this is further evidence of the council's inability to do its job. since there is still no chance of a new dublin agreement, i think a transitional agreement is needed. a transitional agreement guaranteeing, at least until the new parliament is in place, that refugees rescued in the mediterranean are distributed among the member states that have volunteered to do so. member states which are not willing to do so should provide technical and financial assistance to the others. i would ask the romanian presidency and you, commissioner, to consider the possibility of establishing such a transitional agreement, because it would be a disgrace if we were unable to change the situation.
mr president, i would like to wish the prime minister the best for your presidency and thank you for highlighting some of the most important points. one of the most important for us is the cohesion that you talked about, and it is extremely important not only when it comes to the economic differences between people, as you said, but also among their access to their rights as european citizens. the social and regional cohesion that you are talking about is therefore extremely important, and we will be looking to you over the next six months, because we believe that you have a great experience on these topics. you are home to some of the poorest citizens of the european union and you are trying hard to change their situation. thank you for the question on the roma, and thank you for mr marinescu’s answer. i understand why he said what he said. it’s very important that we revisit the dossier of the poor. your presidency should really send a message out to europe that 120 million poor people who are living in europe need to be lifted out of poverty in the next few years. i hope that your presidency will push this dossier very heavily. thank you for your future work on this.
in writing. the last two eu presidencies, bulgaria and austria, have made enlargement a priority, taking advantage of their traditional political and geographical proximity to the western balkans. the priorities have led to the adoption of strategies and declarations, and to loud rhetoric, but despite this, the enlargement process has been rather slow, and we need only look at the accession chapters that have been opened. unfortunately, it seems that the eu's priority is to slow down rather than speed up the process. the romanian presidency also places the issue of enlargement high on its agenda, for which i can only congratulate it, and i am confident that this will finally be reflected in the dynamics of the processes and that we will see an acceleration of accession. the hungarian people's party delegation firmly and consistently stands by its position that the western balkans region should become an integral part of the european union, and therefore, together with the hungarian government, we will effectively support the enlargement process, confident that the 2025 accession deadline can be achieved. thank you for listening.
in writing. the romanian eu presidency is a stark contrast between the diplomatically articulated fine words and the unsolicited reality. the romanian government announced its presidency programme with the slogan 'cohesion as a common european value', aiming to reduce division and eliminate discrimination. president klaus iohannis stressed the importance of unity and consensus and that there was no room for compromise on the rule of law. all the leaders in brussels urged the new presidency to stand up for the rule of law, to fight corruption and to defend the fundamental values of europe. however, the opposite of the statements, promises and expectations made is true for romania. the european institutions themselves strongly condemn the deplorable state of the rule of law in romania. romania is not only a strengthening of european unity and cohesion, but it is also deeply divided. the bitter war between the post-communist government and the presidency has brought society to the brink of a constitutional and domestic crisis. corruption is rampant, and discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities is part of state policy, in contrast to a program of xenophobia. in order to represent the cohesion and unity between the old and the new, the eastern and the western member states in a credible and effective way, romania should first of all put its own house in order, establish a democratic rule of law. let's get on with it. and so help me god, i will.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 4 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers (oj l 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regional development committee. - mr president, i have to go. my dear officer. as the person responsible for the opinion of the regional development committee on the globalisation adjustment fund, my work was guided by three objectives. first, we're going to reduce the current cut-off of 250 to 150. secondly, we extend the beneficiaries to include workers who have not yet been dismissed but whose dismissal has already been decided. and last but not least, the time taken to process applications should be as short as possible. we still feel it's important to go bigger. reducing the redundancy threshold to 150 is important because smes rarely have a redundancy threshold of 200 or 250 and the labour market of smaller eu member states requires this level. so we think it's important to reduce the threshold to 150.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. we are debating the future of europe today, at a time when european democratic systems are facing enormous challenges. for example, europe today cannot cope with the fact that one of its member governments has begun to build an illiberal system by denying democracy. yes, i'm talking about viktor orbán of hungary, where the prime minister's friend could have gone from being a simple rural gas mechanic to the richest man in the country in a few years. where the government has built a state media machine of fake news from the public media and completely controls the hungarian media. where opposition mps are physically abused and the authorities do nothing. where, while a few people are getting incredibly rich off of public money, over a hundred thousand children are starving. where the prosecution continually covers up government corruption cases, but continually initiates concept proceedings against opposition and civilians. mr. prime minister, your country, spain, has in the past few decades very successfully transformed itself from a dictatorship into a democracy that is recognized and respected around the world. i ask you what we must do at european level to prevent the re-emergence of dictatorships in europe, in the union.
in writing. according to the european parliament's 2009 resolution against totalitarianism, reconciliation is not possible without dealing with the past and knowing the truth. this calls for the adaptation and complementation of history textbooks and curricula used in european schools, in order to make younger generations aware of the terrible crimes committed by authoritarian regimes. the document recalled the day of remembrance for the victims of totalitarian regimes and invited member states to consider how to commemorate it in the light of their own country's history and specificities. i believe it is important to keep alive the memory of the millions of victims, as it is what warns us of the dangers of totalitarianism and at the same time strengthens solidarity and understanding among the citizens of a europe that is uniting. the european union must provide the appropriate framework and resources for research into european totalitarian regimes, as well as appropriate educational programmes and cultural projects to provide an objective and comprehensive knowledge of the totalitarian past. only in this way can the future generation, the younger generations, learn about our common past and become the builders of a common european future.
in writing. the report accurately reflects the weaknesses in the enforcement of fundamental rights in the member states of the union, and it is particularly welcome that the treatment of migrants and the issue of violence against women (#metoo) are among the new focal points. to this rather depressing picture, i can only add that since 2017 the situation has only worsened, especially in some eastern member states. the undemocratic functioning of the orbán government in terms of the destruction of the foundations of democracy, the situation of european values and fundamental rights has unfortunately turned my country, hungary, into a kind of 'veterinary horse' of violations within the eu. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against counterfeiting is based on the principle of proportionality. the weakness and lack of consequence of these important and accurate annual reports on fundamental rights is increasingly coming to light, and is now calling into question the credibility of the eu and the ep. the report also refers to the slowness of the article 7 procedure and the contradictions in the infringement procedures, which leave the community almost helpless against the unrestrained policy of orbán. in my view, it is no longer possible to criticise only certain member states for specific serious infringements. i therefore reiterate that the eu's legal instruments should be supplemented as soon as possible by an objective mechanism, including sanctions, to monitor the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. not at this time, as a matter of customary courtesy, i would like to say that i congratulate mr. pirinski, the speaker, on a job of outstanding quality. a report is now on the table of the european parliament which summarises in an excellent way the recommendations made by the european parliament in recent years in its budgetary control activities concerning the operation of the european investment bank, and which also appropriately reflects the criticisms made in the annual report of the european court of auditors with a view to improving the operation of the bank. the european investment bank's performance is good, despite the problems and shortcomings identified in this report. i would like to mention two important points: firstly, what my colleague mr pirinski has already mentioned. of course the european investment bank is a bank, and of course there are explanations for the disproportionate lending, subsidizing and investment policies within the union, but no good explanation solves the problem. there can be no situation in which the european investment bank's deployment policy is concentrated in the 15 countries that were already members of the european union before 2004. finally, we consider it extremely important to give priority to the western balkans in the context of lending policy outside the union.
mr president i am surprised to hear of the institutional fetishism which sees the european union and its member states as having as their sole purpose the discovery of the rule of law. my fellow citizens! the european union, and of course the member states, are at the heart of their work, of their activities, to guarantee the freedom of european citizens and to do everything possible to enhance the well-being of european citizens. this is facilitated by the guarantee of citizens' freedom and the enhancement of citizens' welfare, which is guaranteed by the coordination of the functioning of the legal system, legislation and institutions. of course, there may be phenomena in the functioning of the european union that threaten the rule of law, but whatever the threat to the rule of law may be, the european union cannot make a decision when it wants to counter threats to the rule of law by means that threaten the rule of law. the european commission's proposal is weak, it has deteriorated further in the preparation of the parliament, and it lacks the normative debate the most important concept underlying the rule of law . it is not clear which rules trigger proceedings that may lead to a very important financial penalty. the proposal is a threat to the rule of law and cannot be supported.
in writing. under the european parliament's rights and values programme adopted today, the european union would make available €850 million to ngos in europe working to build an open and inclusive society. for me, this means that civilians who support the brussels agenda through open political engagement would receive additional resources, so ngos that openly promote immigration could be expected to be strengthened through eu funding. it is unacceptable that the european commission should organise activities for ngos which it cannot carry out itself in the absence of a legal mandate. so in the future, european taxpayers will also finance the openly pro-immigration pseudo-civils who are constantly attacking hungary.
in writing. the european parliament is facing a historic moment, as two reports, which will be voted on tomorrow, propose a stronger defence of the eu's fundamental values, which were trampled on by the orban dictatorships. it is a well-known fact in european circles that the orbán government pockets a significant part of the eu funds instead of the hungarian citizens in the pockets of their own oligarchs, which the european parliament now wants to end. the new law aims to make the disbursement of eu funds conditional on compliance with the rule of law criteria. the second proposal aims to increase eu support to civil society organisations promoting democratic development and the rule of law to eur 1.9 billion, in order to protect and promote european values in member states where governments themselves are threatening them. as a hungarian representative, i believe it is my duty to draw the attention of my colleagues to the importance of supporting the report, as the orbán government is one of those governments that portrays as hostile civil society organisations fighting for democracy and human rights and prevents them from functioning by a law that conflicts with eu legislation. i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will stand up for the support of civilians and for the measures taken by illiberal regimes to undermine democracy and the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president! in my country, hungary, at the northern border of the european union's rice-producing zone, rice farming is important because of the much higher demand for live labour compared to other arable crop sectors. it thus provides a livelihood for the people living in the areas most affected by unemployment. rice cultivation also benefits the environment and land use. as in the case of other agricultural sectors, the union rice producers need to be guaranteed a fair competitive position in the face of increasing imports from third countries. the dumped imports of cambodian and myanmar indica rice are seriously injuring and undermining fair international trade. i therefore fully support the views expressed in the parliamentary question and ask the european commission to open a safeguard investigation into the matter immediately under article 22 of the gsp regulation. thank you so much for listening.
mr president, similarly to ms kyenge i would like to suggest and recommend an urgent meeting, an urgent debate, for this plenary to express our solidarity with the victims of emmanuel macron’s policies of mass brutality. as you know very well, 15 people have lost their eyes, 80 people had severe head injuries, and i suggest that the debate on hungary should be deleted from the agenda because these human rights violations that are going on in france are far more serious than the ones that are going on in hungary.
on behalf of the ppe group. why did the left-liberal majority force the hungarian question onto the european parliament's agenda again? the official reasons for the initiative are mere excuses. they need them to fight hungary again. the reason for the debate is that the european parliament election campaign is underway and the left-liberal majority of the ep has also launched an attack on the hungarian people in this campaign. but why do you have this anger towards us? because there is a question of destiny that has defined the lives of european people for decades, in which the vast majority of hungarians, regardless of party affiliation, want something completely different from you. this is a matter of immigration. you, the left-liberal majority in the ep, regard mass immigration as a fundamental right and support it. they want to introduce immigrant visas and legalize illegal immigration. you look to migration to solve europe's demographic problems. they want to take away the right of border protection and asylum procedures from the member states in order to promote immigration. you are financially supporting the illegal activities of ngos that organize illegal migration. you want an immigration and resettlement quota system. you want to determine who we are obligated to live with in our country, and you threaten, blackmail, punish those countries that refuse to accept immigration. we hungarians, unlike you, say no to immigration. we want to protect our borders from illegal immigrants, and in doing so we want to protect the external borders of the union. we believe that we should not bring trouble to europe, but help to people in need. for the sake of the safety of hungarian and other european citizens, we want to end the immigration that threatens our european way of life. that's why they're having trouble with us, but four months before the elections, it's completely unnecessary to hurt the hungarians. in the elections, the people of europe will decide that europe remains the europeans' europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the orban system in hungary is based on a chain of loyalties and corruption. it's gradually dismantling the rule of law and releasing the spirit of hate from the bottle. as a representative of the movement for a better hungary, the largest opposition party, i am convinced that we must fight our political struggle not here in brussels, but at home, together with the hungarian people, using all constitutional means to overthrow the regime of viktor orbán.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. some of the young actors of the hungarian regime change of thirty years ago, that is, the leaders of fidesz then and now, have meanwhile become aging and wealthy landowners and industrialists of my country. these gentlemen have since taken over the government and turned the once-hilarious barracks of the soviet bloc into europe's new funeral home amid the european union's funding and growing turmoil. for nearly a decade, this corrupt, money-hungry group has reduced human rights to a human deprivation and twisted knowledge into nonsense. unfortunately, the situation has gotten worse in the last six months. for example, in my presence, and what's more, without being disturbed by live video, armed thugs of the government beat up deputies in the public television building, and now the prosecution is threatening criminal charges against the victims, labeling them as agents of george soros. that's pretty much what we can report from the new slaves' new country, namely hungary. the only good news, mr. president, is that the national democratic resistance is growing.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. viktor orbán has fled from today's debate. that's understandable, since he has nothing to say. he should either deny his nine years of rule or continue to provoke european institutions concerned about the state of hungarian democracy. orbán argues that this debate is already part of the ep campaign and that is unacceptable. but i ask him: what could be more important in europe - outside or inside the campaign - than defending the values on which the union is founded? what should we talk about in the campaign and outside the campaign if not that for nine years in hungary the rights of hungarian citizens as enshrined in the fundamental treaties and the values of our community have been continuously undermined. since september, the situation in hungary has deteriorated at the speed of light. from the complete centralization of the media, to the creation of the fidesz courts, to the imposition of the state audit court on the opposition parties. everything else has fallen from orbán's autocracy and behind it the features of vladimir putin's regime are emerging. what is still to happen for all of us, the epp and the european council, to take seriously the threat that hungary's illiberalisation poses to the whole of europe and to act against it?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my dear miss sargentini, i have to ask you something. please take a look around the room: out of 751 meps, there are about a dozen present, and they are also mostly hungarian, so they are here in a quasi-office. draw the conclusion that no one cares about your misfortune, your attempt. his attack on hungary failed. i suggest you find yourself a new subject. and since human rights is your favorite subject - and mine, too - i'll recommend the topic of mass police brutality. your favorite, the role model emmanuel macron, is doing the same thing to his police officers that we suffered in hungary in the fall of 2006, and again between 2002 and 2010: he's shooting eyes out. fifteen people lost their eyesight, 80 suffered severe head injuries. this is how your favorite politician in your favorite country treats people who exercise their liberty. now turn around and face them.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. a few days ago, hungarian prime minister soros-seans and foreign minister called this debate a political act. i think these two comments accurately reflect the current hungarian government's understanding of democracy. the absence of the prime minister is also proof that viktor orbán does not dare to confront the european parliament. orbán is afraid of democracy, afraid of democratic debate. that's why he has destroyed media freedom and an independent judiciary, why he does nothing against corruption that has already affected his family, why he is trying to make it impossible for ngos to function, why he wants to tie the country to various authoritarian regimes and dictators. orbán is not negotiating with the european parliament, but he's going to brazil or belarus. orbán cares about nothing but power, and therefore he betrays the interests of his own country, democracy, european values. we in the european parliament cannot help this policy. it must be made clear that this policy has no place in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr niedermüller's speech reminded me of the hungarian joke that you have a rabbit, you have a hat, you have no hat: it doesn't matter, you are guilty anyway, you will get a head. if the hungarian prime minister is here, that's the problem, if the hungarian prime minister is not here, that's the problem. all the accusations are ridiculous and you all know that, colleagues. they completely ignore the facts, because then a lot of member states could be subject to rule of law proceedings if they really mattered and were measured on equal footing. as we know very well, the press in hungary has not been nationalized and universities have not been closed, just as ceu's accredited training in hungary continues to remain and operate. you all know that, but you forget those facts. this is a cause. they serve as a pretext for the frustrated opposition performance in hungary, which includes everyone from the far right to the socialists, yet with dwindling support. and this whole debate that's going on here is about bringing their ridiculous production to the european level. which our pro-immigration colleagues are using to increase pressure on hungary because we don't want to join the ranks of immigrant countries. as mrs sargentini said: hungarian citizens have the same rights... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the new anti-hungarian parliamentary debate forced by the greens and their accomplices is a direct continuation of the sargentini report initiating the rule of law procedure under article 7. the repeated pushback against hungary, which rejects illegal migration, is nothing more than a deliberate electoral campaign of the left-liberal pro-immigration political forces. the most shameful actors in this pro-democratic scenario aimed at stigmatizing our hungarianness are the hungarian opposition representatives who, following the old communist practice, are trying to destabilize the social order with putschist demonstrations at home, while they fearlessly denounce their own country abroad. don't listen to them. long live hungary! long live the europe!
in writing. here we are again in the plenary session of the european parliament, where repeatedly attempts are made to put hungary on the shameful stand with phrased reasons. the excuse this time is the change in the labor code and the alleged overreach of the protest. the toll law clearly does not violate any eu law, and the police have been professional and lawful throughout the protests, which has been well documented by the opposition activists' video-shoot. now this whole clown thing is really ridiculous. if the esteemed left-liberal representatives are so concerned with freedom of assembly and basic human rights, why don't they turn their watchful eyes to paris? how can they gracefully pass over the more than 100 permanently and more than a thousand more lightly wounded people, while seeing the rights trampled underfoot in the non-injured hungarian events? obviously because this whole freedom-fighting thing is just a hypocritical excuse to attack hungary, because it dares to think differently. we are christian democrats, we condemn illegal immigration and we are not afraid to stand up for our values. this parliament's days are numbered until the next election. you may come at us with new excuses, but empty slogans will not protect you from the will of the voters for long. in may, the people decide.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, more than branding, a domain name is an important tool for sharing knowledge, exercising freedom of speech and conducting business. therefore, the existence of the .eu domain needs to be regulated with the goal of serving european values and contributing to supporting them. through this regulation, we give the union a balanced set of rules on how the registration and maintenance of .eu domains will be managed in the future. however, there are still challenges ahead of us. in a time where the truth is under siege by alternative truths and disinformation is happening on an industrial scale, the websites that uphold european values need to find a safe harbour under the .eu domain and keep sharing the knowledge. the european parliament should have a close look at any attempts to censor content and stifle dissent in eu member states and react swiftly if it happens.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the annual report on competition policy for 2107 has been enriched by a number of forward-looking elements in the course of the commission and the intergroup negotiations. i would therefore like to express my sincere congratulations to all my colleagues and officials who have contributed to the process of preparing this report. it is good that this report also focuses on issues that will significantly improve the quality of life of citizens, and let me give you a few examples, such as the very serious and increasingly urgent need to address the need for european energy supply and the need to accelerate decarbonisation. that's what happens in that report. the issue of ending geo-blocking shall also be given due weight in the investigations. data protection and transparency issues are also a very important part of this report. and what i'm very pleased about, personally, is that the issues of consumer-friendliness in the digital economy are also getting a lot of attention. but of course a competition policy report cannot be idle if it is a question of evaluating other economic areas. thus, the contribution to taxation and, above all, the principle that taxation should be carried out by linking value creation to a place. and then there are plenty of intra-eu challenges, such as the issue of making calls between countries within the european union the same as local calls in the telecommunications sector. but the competition report also goes further by promoting the fifth generation and guaranteeing the free movement of bank accounts. last but not least, the further development of the smart villages project, which represents the new european concept of rural development, is also given due attention.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful to the commission for the opportunity to speak to you in this parliament. the european parliament and the commission agree that the protection of the european budget, the proper use of our budgetary resources both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, is a very, very important commitment and responsibility. we want the european budget to be able to develop its full potential with its limited resources and that all the funds, projects we want, programmes we need, can be used to promote the economy, society and our fellow citizens. that is why the fight against fraud, against dishonesty, against abuse and against irregularities is very important to us. this fight must be waged at the level of the european union, the member states and the regions - a commitment for the commission, for the european institutions, but also for national governments and administrations. i read mr marinescu's report carefully last night. i think it's very comprehensive and very balanced. it covers most of the important aspects, it also criticises the commission, olaf where it is justified or even necessary, but it also highlights many of the activities of the commission and our services in a positive way. thank you for this fair assessment of our work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the fight against fraud. we have presented our multiannual financial framework last year, and the implementing rules are also an attempt to make fraud, corruption and dishonesty difficult or impossible. and we have incorporated a proposal for a new anti-fraud programme into this budgetary framework. if the rule of law is threatened in the member states and if there are deficits and they are growing and there is a risk that the financial interests of the european union will be harmed, we must act. our proposal on conditionality and the possibility of cutting or cancelling appropriations when the rule of law is no longer fully respected was accepted by parliament by a large majority a few days ago in strasbourg. i thank you for your support in the process of consultation and adoption between the council and parliament. 2018 was a year of intense work to build the european public prosecutor's office - a joint effort by my colleague jourová, who was sitting here just now, and myself, your services and olaf. we have appointed an interim managing director. the eppo shall be entrusted with the task of ensuring that the eppo is able to fulfil its tasks in the field of criminal law and the fight against corruption. the procedure for the appointment of the european prosecutor general, i.e. the head of the eppo, is under way and we will inform you about it in the future and shortly and ask for your consent. in your efforts to improve the european union's response to fraud, we have also put forward the proposal to amend the olaf regulation to you and to the council. the aim is above all to ensure close cooperation between olaf and the european public prosecutor's office and the effectiveness of olaf investigations. this reform should, if possible, be advanced in the coming weeks. the european public prosecutor's office will be responsible for the prosecution of all criminal offences. we must ensure full complementarity in the overall response to illegal actions to the detriment of european finances, close all loopholes, avoid duplication of work and optimise cooperation. this is a common objective of us the parliament and the commission and is underlined in the report by mr marinescu, and also olaf and the strengthening of olaf's powers in some important areas. in fact, the eppo is a partner of olaf, but the epo must not weaken olaf, but olaf must emerge stronger from this joint work into the future. this commission proposal is on your table and i am counting on your support to ensure that this dossier receives the attention it deserves. the adoption process is important to be as rapid as possible in order to launch the eppo by the end of 2020, before the modernisation of the rules and the reorganisation of competences between olaf and the eppo in the european code. i should like to thank mrs gräßle, who, as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, presented a comprehensive report yesterday on the commission proposal to amend the olaf regulation. it's very comprehensive and ambitious. i believe that the report by mrs gräßle should be considered in two stages in parliament and in the council. stage one: the small reform to re-organise olaf and eppo. stage two: a major reform of olaf in the new mandate of parliament and the commission, so that the ideas of mrs gräßle can be taken into account at the latest then. i would like to warn against one thing: if we go too ambitious, i think a decision in parliament is possible, but not in the council. and nothing would be worse than to go ahead with high ambition this year and then next year to have nothing at all and to see when the eppo starts its operational business unexplained competences between olaf and the eppo. we should avoid this. the last point which was and is important to parliament is the illicit trade in tobacco. i can tell you that there has been considerable progress in this area. the new agreement to combat cigarette smuggling, known as the fctc protocol, entered into force in september last year. it has been ratified by the european union and now by 47 countries. the european union has always been a pioneer in this area and our joint efforts are now paying off. thank you for your expectations and your support. we adopted a new action plan to combat the illegal trade in tobacco a few weeks ago, in december last year. it builds on the old but good strategy from 2013 and on the analytical progress report presented two years ago. all these are activities and evidence of ongoing commitment to combating fraud. i am glad that parliament is fully fulfilling its role of accompanying and monitoring us, criticizing us and supporting us. this is also reflected in the marinescu report. thank you for your patience.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to say thank you to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. this is the last ‘pif’ (‘protection of financial interests’) report of this term, so we should see where we stand regarding the protection of the eu’s financial interests. the picture is very mixed, although we have adopted the pif regulation, including vat within its scope, we have adopted the provisions for the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and we have started reform of the vat system in the eu. but the eppo will include countries only on a voluntary basis; the commission has abolished the bi—annual anti—corruption report; the eu is still not a cooperating member of the group of states against corruption (greco). the eu seems to be financing member states which are openly misusing the funds, large-scale corruption is spreading and the eu is not equipped with proper tools to address it. it is clear what we need right now. we need the commission and the council to be firm on corruption. the eu needs to improve all the policies i have mentioned, and it definitely needs the so—called rule of law regulation, with the option of allowing the eu to spend eu funds directly in those member states affected.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. i salute the council with respect and affection and i am very glad that they have taken such a bold step. we thank romania, and i think it's very important that you participate in this new three-phase period of the romanian strategy. we are talking about three periods here, the first of the european presidency, and now the romanians, who are expected to make better use of the existing financial resources available to the member states. so let's put concrete, clean, paper-based numbers in the partnership agreements, for example, in terms of job creation, i think we could reduce roma unemployment by 5 percent per country. we just did it in hungary. and in the same way in other fields and in education, housing, employment, health care, you can get very good results. in 2010, when the european parliament first produced a serious report on this, we already had seven points that we thought were very important for the commission and the council to take over. and we think that because those points were not taken over from the parliamentary report, that's why the romas strategy isn't working completely right now. so what we'd like to propose in our report tomorrow and in the libe five-party report for the february plenary are the following points that we'd like to put back in the document for the next planning period. we would like the finnish presidency to think seriously about whether, in the case of 120 million poor people in europe, the question of the 16 million roma could be extended to other poor groups in europe in terms of economic integration. and then we want the croatian presidency, in terms of the european roma strategy, to be able to get the balkans poor to be involved, so that when we join in 2025, there is no shock of how poor these balkan roma and poor communities are. in these settlements, only a third of the poor are gypsies. today, there are only 16 million of the 120 million in europe. five years ago, seven years ago, that was 43 million. while poverty is increasing in europe, it is decreasing in one or two eastern european countries. so i'm asking you to consider the following. my first point would be to have clear targets in the partnership agreements that are signed and to have those targets met by the countries. of course, this requires some kind of legal basis to punish those who do not understand that the demographic wave is bringing the future generations of the workforce to europe's poorest settlements. so this is not a humanitarian issue, but a very strong economic development issue for the european union. it's five times cheaper to integrate the poorest of the poor than to not integrate them and pay social security. so thank you very much, your determination is very, very important, and the european parliament is fully behind the romanian presidency in putting a very serious document on the table. we had a strong document a year and a half ago, written by soraya post, and it really addresses the issues that the race directive could bring about a change in anti-gypsyism. please look into this.
blue-card question. – given that the commission has made a very big step under the leadership of ms jourová for the roma strategy, do you see any good projects? you were talking about hungary. do you know that in hungary roma get 10 million forints if they have many children – two or three – to get housing? do you know that in hungary at the age of three you have to go to kindergarten? do you know that in hungary, in the last three years, 300 000 roma got jobs? public work, it’s true, but 100 000 could make it to the normal work spheres. also, do you know that in hungary we have stopped school drop—out? do you know that we have biztos kezdet gyerekházak, which starts at the age of one in settlements? do you know about these developments in hungary?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, there are two issues that i would like to touch on. first, the reform of the rules of procedure will give this parliament a much stronger connection with the european citizens’ initiative – it has already been mentioned – so that whenever there is a successful initiative, parliament will be in position to discuss it in plenary. now this represents a major improvement in the process and will give initiatives much greater visibility. that, in turn, will enhance the relationship between citizens and the eu – something that is badly needed. the other issue is evidently much more contested. how are political groups in this parliament to be constituted? on paper, those who launch a group do so because they are linked by a political affinity; they have enough in common, politically, to act together. hitherto, affinity has been taken on trust and mostly it has worked, but this the system can be gamed and it has been, by the efdd, for example. wholly divergent actors say they are linked and, thereby, they come to enjoy the rights and benefits of being a parliamentary group. through that, they claim to represent the citizens, except as such divergent groups, they cannot and do not and that, of course, makes parliament looks absurd – hence this reform, which is overdue.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european parliament raises its voice in countless cases when civil activists, artists, journalists or anyone else is persecuted for political reasons in any country. when europe speaks, many governments will back down. many people have their freedom back thanks to the voice of europe and many are being honoured for their heroism. however, there are less visible forms of deprivation. i respectfully ask you what the european union is doing when the right to work, to housing or to a decent life is being violated even within its own territory. i'm talking about the lack of social rights in a broader sense. and we can also ask, even in a geographically disaggregated way, whether there are areas of europe where the right to health care, the right to information, the right to education is very limited. the concept we have developed here in the european parliament and marketed as the smart village is intended to remedy this, and it is intended to make legal protection more accessible through the technological possibilities of today.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. a state of emergency has been declared in the center of szeklerland, a region with a hungarian majority in romania, at the marosvásárhely. hungarian students and teachers protest that after their former hungarian medical university was merged into a populous romanian university, the chauvinist romanian university leadership is gradually restricting their rights to study in their mother tongue. the european parliament has rightly condemned the deplorable state of the rule of law in romania. we rightly expect the next president of the union, romania, to end its anti-hungarian policy and guarantee the fundamental human and community rights of the transylvanian hungarians. as part of this, we demand the autonomy of the hungarian education system, the restoration of the marosvásárhelyi medical and pharmaceutical university in its original form. the eu should not be double-minded. while you are unreasonably siding with soros' ceu, don't abandon the hungarian university in romania!
mr president, fundamental rights are a concept that everyone will support wholeheartedly. problems only arise when these rights start to proliferate and it becomes impossible to know whether a right is fundamental or not. we are currently in the midst of an inflation of rights. second, when we raise the question of rights, are we focusing on law or on politics? if you do not keep the two separate, we politicise the law and legalise politics and that is not compatible with democracy. third, if we frame everything in the language of rights, then compromise, the keystone of democratic politics, becomes difficult to attain. the underlying dynamic of rights is a moral imperative, and morality is all but impossible to compromise. finally, if we are indeed dealing with fundamental rights, these must apply to everyone, even-handedly and indeed equitably. if this even-handedness is absent, we create privileged groups and exclude others. that is the high road to trouble, to serious trouble indeed. look around europe today to see what i mean.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i think we can all agree that the ombudsman performs an extremely important function, because one of the factors that makes the european union viable is its commitment to accountability and to following its own procedures. sometimes it doesn’t happen, but if this commitment is eroded, then the dangers of arbitrariness, the illicit enlargement of power, the abuse of power even, become real. the function of the ombudsman, therefore, is to ensure that, in these areas of activity, accountability and procedural consistency are observed fully. in this regard, the institution of the ombudsman performs a very useful function equilibrating between the different institutions of the european union. the only problem that arises from this is an ancient one: who guards the guardians? it’s the ‘quis custodiet’ problem. once upon a time, the proper operation was democracy, which was predicated on the political actors behaving with due regard for self-limitation. in the ideologically polarised world of today, self-limitation has fallen down the memory hole. so, the more guardians, the better.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when we talk today about the right to free protest and proportional police action, in western european democracies, it's always about police action, of course, and that's fine. unfortunately, the hungarian people already know that in the recent dictatorships it is a dream to have a responsible police officer act against them at a demonstration. in hungary, the dictatorial power is copying the russian dictatorship by beating the opposition and opposition protesters not with police but with private companies. my colleague lászló varjú, a member of parliament, was beaten by private security agents in the building of the state media, and several members of parliament were simply thrown out of the building by armed security guards. yesterday, an activist protesting against a speech by the prime minister, an activist of my party, was beaten by armed security guards so badly that his glasses were broken. orbán is not dealing with the police, but with private agencies to do the dirty work, and the police just look away, and the prosecutors raise their hands that no crime has been committed. if we want to adopt a resolution on the contrary, it must not only be about the actions of the authorities, but also about the actions of private armies.
in writing. i consider this report and the debate timely because europe has recently been faced with internal challenges from its own member states, which the ep, as the union's main elected political body, must take the initiative and provide guidance in addressing. the prospect of a new dynamism in european integration in the face of major global economic, social and environmental challenges is today threatened by the rise of anti-eu nationalism and populism in europe, even on the part of some member state governments and leaders. as a striking example, the orbán government is already provoking the eu into weakening its functioning by denying our european democratic values, by undermining migration policy or the common foreign and security policy. that is why i support all the institutional and political reforms that have been proposed so far in our debate on the future of integration, which can help to curb these dangerous political aspirations: citizens' trust, democratic participation, solutions aimed at making the union more efficient, more transparent, more democratic, social justice, preventing the eu from being divided - and, if necessary, even treaty amendments. i consider it particularly timely to make the community method and qualified majority voting more general, to make the election of meps more open and more direct, or to strengthen the role of the parliament to counterbalance the often deliberate indecision of the epp. as a socialist politician, i naturally insist that it is our first priority to create the political and institutional guarantees necessary for the effective functioning of the social pillar, in order to fulfil the historic task of social europe.
mr. president, i have to ask you... 2019 will be an election year in europe. while we are preparing for the european elections, ukraine is holding presidential and parliamentary elections. ukrainian citizens have to choose from 44 presidential candidates, but only two or three have a real chance. that would not be a problem in itself, but unfortunately the hungarian community is facing a difficult situation again. the most prominent candidates are bolstering their electoral base with rhetoric that excludes nationalist minorities, and their platforms contain nothing good for minorities. in preparation for the elections, the government will submit to the rada a new language law restricting constitutional minority rights, which was criticized by many in its first reading, and international public opinion has stated that it should be submitted to the venice commission before final adoption. they probably refuse to do so because they have not yet implemented the venice commission's opinion on article 7 of the education act. the majority of the nation is also skeptical about the election results. the public is dissatisfied with the fraud, the corruption, and the lack of trust in the legislative elite.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it is well known that the romanian revolution of 1989 started in thames. in the 30th year of the fall of the communist dictatorship, the hungarians of the city were shocked to learn that the hungarian house, a representative building confiscated during the communist era, was to be converted into a hotel. romania still refuses to return all the illegally nationalized properties of the hungarian community and its churches to their rightful owners. on the centenary of the country's founding, on the 30th anniversary of the temesvar uprising, initiated by the hungarian reformed church, we rightly demand respect for our minority rights, full fulfillment of romania's european commitments. thames valley will be the european capital of culture in 2021. it would be a mockery of this and the city's multicultural heritage to permanently alienate and unlawfully take over the hungarian house.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in the context of the situation in syria, which has been ravaged by a long and murderous war, i would like to focus on the plight of persecuted christians. last year, open doors reported that christians in more than 70 countries are suffering extreme persecution, making them the most persecuted religion in the world. syria, which lost half its christian population during the war, is 11th on the mourning list. it is commendable that since the outbreak of the war, the european union has provided more than eur 10 billion in aid to the victims of the syrian humanitarian catastrophe. however, it is a matter of principle that it is not enough to 'manage' the persistent crisis, but above all to eliminate the causes of the crisis, i.e. to end the war in syria. in the area of asylum, the hungarian model is worthy of being followed, which states that the best alternative to humanitarian assistance is not just to receive hundreds of thousands of refugees, but to resettle them. according to viktor orbán, we should not import problems into europe, but help where there are problems. accordingly, hungary has established an independent state secretariat to assist persecuted christians and provides effective support to syrian christians to rebuild and repatriate them within the limits of its strength and economic possibilities.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the last period, i was given the opportunity to visit syria twice, to visit christian minorities, i was in homs, badulla, aleppo and damascus. it was clear to me that the international and european sanctions against the syrian regime are also affecting millions of syrians. it leaves syrians without jobs, without income, and unfortunately, one of the main causes of displacement. yes, we can help the syrian people and the syrian minorities to stay in their homeland. the hungarian government decided a few weeks ago to provide substantial health assistance to the syrians through humanitarian organizations. hungary is helping people in aleppo, homs, regardless of their religion, with the open hospitals project. let's not forget, according to the un, there are 364 million registered syrian refugees in turkey today ready to leave. we must help them to go home, not to europe.
in writing. bosnia and herzegovina has applied for eu membership, recognising its commitment to the union, but unfortunately since mid-2017 the country's adoption of eu-related reforms has slowed down. it is regrettable that the electoral campaign leading up to the general elections of 7 october 2018 was dominated by nationalist and ethnic rhetoric, characterised by segmentation rather than focusing on solving the everyday problems of citizens, which further deepens the divide between the three constituent peoples. as in many of my other speeches, i would like to emphasize here that political leaders must do everything to avoid the nationalist rhetoric that divides the population of the country and must convey a political message that promotes cooperation, balances the relationship between the three peoples living in the country. i condemn all forms of discrimination, and it is important that every country wishing to join the european union should respect democratic principles, the cultural and linguistic diversity of its nations, and ensure equal access for ethnic and national minorities to education, employment, health care and the opportunity for representatives of national minorities to participate in political and public life. bosnia and herzegovina must respect fundamental human rights and end open discrimination if it wishes to become a member of the european union.
in writing. i am glad to see that now that the migration crisis is in its fourth year, there are finally some who dare to call the problem by its name, in defiance of political correctness. now that surveys are showing that this is one of, if not the most important issue for european voters, elected representatives are slowly starting to address it. we have consistently said for years that the only way to stop the flow of people is to protect our external borders and to solve our problems where they arise. it's not about bringing people here, it's about getting help there. it's important that once we've finally faced the problem, we actually solve it and not just make it worse. the reduction of national border protection powers or the mandatory allocation of quotas were exactly such decoys that would have only deepened the crisis. i hope this current wave of confrontation isn't just another reason for stealth legislation.
madam president, please. the union's fundamental objective is to reduce disparities in social and economic development between its member states. the commission's proposal for a seven-year budget does not meet this expectation. the cohesion funds would be cut by 10%. parliament does not accept this and wants to restore the current level of funding. to achieve this, resources must be used in the most efficient way possible, and in particular, eu money must be prevented from being diverted and leaked through corruption channels. the european public prosecutor's office could be a tool for this. unfortunately, several countries have not joined this, and in their case, meaningful cooperation with olaf is to be expected. it is unacceptable that, while the eu's anti-fraud office has documented and factually exposed serious abuses, there is no substantive action by the member states' law enforcement authorities.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on common provisions in seven pillars is a milestone in cohesion policy and the eu budget post-2020. cohesion policy is the union's main investment policy and is of great benefit and importance to all member states. the commission's proposal to reduce the budget for cohesion policy and to make it more difficult for member states to access the funds, for example by increasing the levels of pre-financing, co-financing or the institution of macroeconomic conditionality, is therefore unacceptable. during the parliamentary conciliation process, i was pleased to see that the majority of my colleagues agreed with my proposals to maintain the cohesion policy budget and to reduce the burden on member states of the pre-financing and co-financing levels. however, i cannot continue to agree with proposals to support the integration of immigrants from cohesion funds, and i will therefore vote against such proposals in today's vote.
in writing. as rapporteur for the european disability strategy 2010-2020 on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, i already drew attention in 2001 to the need to strengthen anti-discrimination and access provisions in the use of the structural funds and to use the european funds to improve accessibility of goods, services and the built environment. as rapporteur of the empl committee, i submitted a number of proposals for the regulation currently in force in the cpr, which have been incorporated. i particularly welcome the fact that the new cpr has retained these elements and has expanded them. the structural funds have long provided resources to increase the employment of people with disabilities and to promote their inclusive education. it is important that the most disadvantaged groups also have optimal access to resources. the union's contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 10000000000, of which eur 500000000 is for the period 2014-2020. the pre- and co-financing rates should be set in such a way as to facilitate access to funding for ngos representing persons with disabilities. ensure that eu funds are effectively used in a manner that is accessible to and in the best interests of persons with disabilities, in accordance with the un crpd.
in writing. the adoption of the cohesion policy basic regulation is an important milestone in the european parliament. it is important because it preserves the core values of cohesion policy despite all the difficulties. it will preserve a strong, solidarity-based, yet forward-looking and effective development policy for the union as a whole. at the beginning of the debate, that was not at all obvious. with my amendments to the draft, i myself sought to ensure that cohesion policy would continue to serve the cohesion of the member states and regions of the union. it should continue to play a crucial role in the balanced economic, social and territorial development of the eu. face challenges such as globalization and climate change. at the same time, do not forget about the marginalized, the poor, the children living in poverty - even if the governments of some member states, like the orbán regime, do not care about them. the parliament's proposal meets these requirements and i therefore support it. i also urge the council and the european commission to do everything possible to reach an agreement on legislation as soon as possible. regional development is one of our common policies that is most visible to citizens, and can be experienced directly in their own homes. let us be proud of the achievements, of what the eu is doing through the structural funds to improve the lives of its citizens. and let's talk about it to the voters in the campaign ahead, so that selfish, anti-eu politicians don't have a chance to tear the union apart.
madam president, please. i welcome the work of my colleague, mr zīle, who has put a balanced report on the table, which has succeeded in striking a balance between liberalising the market for bus services and protecting public service contracts in the member states. the freedom to provide services, as we know, is a very important eu principle. opening up markets and increasing competition can lead to cheaper and better services. at the same time, it was important to prevent adverse events, and the report very correctly provided for safeguard mechanisms for cases and routes where a public service contract was already in place, or for urban or suburban lines. another element of the report is to avoid the mismatch between the pay-off routes. we must not allow this to happen, as it could have a negative impact on the accessibility of some rural areas. and the point of bus services is, and is a great advantage, that they allow easy connections to the most remote regions. this is coupled with the expectation that the new services will not jeopardise the economic equilibrium of existing public service contracts and that the national authorities will have the right to invoke the operator's licence in all such cases. at the same time, we see that the council has not yet started the debate, so we can assume that the next composition of the european parliament will be the one to discuss the final regulation.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, ms sojdrova, on her report. the european solidarity corps aims to provide even more opportunities for young people to participate in volunteering activities for the benefit of individual communities or society as a whole across europe. young people who feel impelled to help others and to acquire new knowledge and skills can be blessed with valuable talents. the programme will enable some 350 000 young people to volunteer for activities such as disaster recovery, helping children or the elderly, or charity work. 86% of the planned budget is for voluntary activities, but also for traineeships and short-term staff. the ep proposes that young people with 'less opportunities' - young people with disabilities, health problems, those from minorities or from convergence regions - should also be able to take part in the programme. it is regrettable that, under pressure from the left, the rapporteur includes among these target groups young people with a 'migrant background', which is a typical problem in most western european countries, but since hungary is not an immigrant country, it is not relevant for us that they receive priority attention and support. the programme also offers young people in hungary a new opportunity to gain experience and acquire skills that can be put to good use in the world of work.
in writing. while the european economy has been growing for seven years, the situation of europeans working and living on wages and salaries is not improving. the burden of the crisis - from bailing out the banks to balancing the state budgets - was on them. taxes went up, public services went up, less access to education, health care, unemployment, support for the poorest. millions lost their jobs, and when they found new employers, they often had to accept extremely unfavorable contracts. it's a mass phenomenon that working people live below the poverty line. there's a lot of child poverty, a lot of vulnerability. desperation is fuelling extremists who are now plotting to destroy the entire eu. the taxpayers' sacrifice was not reciprocated by the state or the economy. the information revolution threatens to reduce the number of live-working jobs in the long term. we need a fundamental shift. the social market economy must be restored, income must be redistributed for the benefit of workers. in addition to creating jobs, we must use the strength of the european union to guarantee minimum wages and pensions that are decent for people, and support for families with children. we need to eradicate child poverty across the eu. to finance this, a european multi-tax should be imposed on large companies. we need to end tax evasion, the robbing of workers. a strong, united and human europe can only be a europe of social rights!
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to go. it's been a long road. in 2009, i became the first deaf member of the house. in 2011, the european disability action plan on mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities and the period 2010-2020 was adopted. in this report, i called on the commission to put forward measures in the european accessibility package and highlighted proposals on how to improve access to goods and services for people with disabilities through strong, rigorous measures at european level. unfortunately, that was not possible in the previous cycle. in 2015, however, the commission put this on the table and after more than three years of hard work, it can be said that a balanced text has been produced, which has produced results that are good for both social and economic development, and in some areas it would have been good to have made more progress. the closure of the negotiations was urgent and did not tolerate any delay due to the entry into force of the act. it is with great pride and emotion that i stand before you today, and i want to thank you on behalf of people with disabilities, and i ask that we continue on this path together, that what may not be possible today, will be possible tomorrow. let us work together in the future, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment and persistence. it's a good line. i can vote on this tomorrow with a clear heart.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for his very constructive, open and cooperative work in finding common solutions. the visa system is, i think, a very important element of the common european asylum policy. joint action is particularly important in this area, as millions of visas to the european union are issued each year. the primary objective of the reform now proposed is to improve the exchange of relevant data on the issuance of visas between the different eu information systems. this is necessary because, in the face of today's security challenges, we need to be much more effective and to be able to use this system to strengthen the protection of the external borders of the european union. in the reform of the system, my group attached particular importance to the opinions of the eu agency for fundamental rights and the european data protection supervisor, especially with regard to long-term visas, in which both reports stressed the application of the principles of necessity and proportionality. as the draft law is closely linked to the interoperability of eu information systems, any change in any database also affects the processing of data of third-country nationals. this raises again the question of necessity and proportionality, already mentioned above, and the necessary exclusion of any possibility of discrimination. i think we've finally reached an acceptable compromise. the report does not undermine fundamental rights, while contributing to the growth and enhancement of security, and thus has achieved its original objective. thank you, mr president.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the common european asylum policy is based on solidarity and shared responsibility. and although the number of refugees has been declining steadily in recent months, asylum remains a major challenge for the european union and its member states. in this situation, it is particularly important to ensure the financial support of the union. however, in addition to helping member states, it is essential to support the key institutions of the common european asylum policy. in this context, it is particularly regrettable that the council has not been able to reach agreement over the years on the establishment of the european asylum agency. this is the sole responsibility of the council. at the same time, it is gratifying that the fund will have an important role to play in integrating within the framework of the common european asylum policy, as there is no real security without integration. walls and fences will not keep us safe.
in writing. it is outrageous that the pro-immigration majority in the ep is devoting a large part of the tripling of the asylum and migration fund to the import of migrants, rather than trying to stop migration. the parliament's position is that a significant part of the funds should be allocated exclusively to the establishment of legal migration channels, the integration of migrants and the implementation of solidarity between member states. the member state that does not want to resettle migrants on its territory will lose a significant part of the eu funds it is entitled to under the proposal now adopted. despite the commission's insistence that there will be no resettlement quotas, the proposal allocates a significant amount of money to this end. it is outrageous that the pro-immigration majority in the european parliament allows only five percent of the fund to be used to help locally and to address root causes. in the meantime, it would allocate 10,000 euros to member states for each resettled migrant, thereby also encouraging the resettlement of migrants on our continent. the commission's proposal to use eu funds demonstrates that the institution's real intention is to promote immigration, despite all denials, by encouraging the resettlement of migrants with money. the pro-immigration opposition in hungary is also keen to deny the quota allocation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we know that populist governments are constantly questioning and denying it, but it is true that one of the most important elements of the european asylum system is to ensure the protection of the external borders. and this debate right now is about exactly how we can provide the financial framework for that. it is clear that member states alone are not always able to cope with the challenges of asylum. it is therefore necessary that the union also provides financial assistance to certain member states. at the same time, it must be made very clear that the issue of asylum cannot be outsourced, cannot be left to third countries. that's not what this fund is for. the common european asylum policy must be truly european. protecting borders cannot mean deporting refugees in large numbers, but it cannot mean keeping them in camps in third countries. the purpose of this fund is rather to help protect europe's borders, taking human rights into account.
in writing. young people protesting climate change. it's a message that it's not enough to just talk about 2050 targets, we need to take visible and effective action now! i am very pleased that the 2019 election programme of the psc for the european parliament and the smart village programme initiated by me are also in line with these. the smart villages concept aims to provide a sustainable framework at eu level by extending the benefits of technology to rural areas. unfortunately, while the eu is setting long-term goals, programmes and resources for climate action together with the european council , these same member states and often the private sector are not unanimous in their support for a sustainable transition. in words, yes, but not in practice. in practice, this means, for example, in hungary, incitement, the full-scale invasion and theft of eu funds, and the neglect of education and social welfare. we need solutions at european level and immediate responses in the member states to global challenges! i support a real and smart sustainability pact that puts young people and working people, smart and sustainable technology, innovation, the circular economy at the centre. i propose that we start the next phase of smart villages immediately, and along with the initiative, we end the very high subsidies for fossil fuels and we put that money into renewable energy. i also think it is right to introduce a climate test for the next multiannual financial cycle.
madam president, please. the term european semester means nothing to the average european citizen. i will try to define it: the eu's definition of the headline figures for the national budgets. member states are required to submit their stability and convergence programmes in april each year. the council then gives an opinion inviting governments to adjust their programmes, incorporating country-specific recommendations, and then monitors and monitors implementation of the programmes. in practice, therefore, the european semester is the framework for determining the main figures of the national budget, and national parliaments can only take detailed decisions within this framework, and this is a matter of self-determination. the essential part of budgeting is taken away from sovereign parliaments. its introduction was a step toward the creation of a superstate over the nations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this strategic ini report which serves as an input from the parliament ahead of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) summit of september 2019, and also as a reaction to the recent commission reflection paper. but parliament stresses that more efforts are required from the member states and the commission. we need finally an all—encompassing, transformative eu 2030 strategy that integrates sdgs into all eu policies and applies a multi—level approach in governance in line with the recent think 2030 work. it is not enough to use our existing policies, tools or indicators. we need a real paradigm shift, mainstreaming, and concrete tangible actions, targets and deadlines, including a robust sustainability proofing, consistent indicators and an effective monitoring framework. all eu infrastructure decisions, all eu revenues and expenditures must be aligned with the sdgs and the next multiannual financial framework (mff) should reflect this to the fullest. in order to safeguard these principles, the eu still has a long way to go.
in writing. it is regrettable that there are still significant gaps in achieving sdg 10 on reducing income inequalities and inequalities based on age, gender, disability, ethnicity, origin, religion and economic status. i am convinced that inclusive and equitable education, science, technology and innovation can increase equality of opportunity and, in parallel, reduce social exclusion, and therefore must play a much greater role in the future. unfortunately, in many developing countries, there is no way to adequately measure progress towards the sdgs, but unfortunately, it is still clear that the risk of poverty among children is too high. early investment in children's education has a significant return for both children and society as a whole and is therefore key to breaking the cycle of disadvantage in the early years.
mr president, as a human rights lawyer, my heart is always deeply touched by the kind of stories we heard today about people who, for political reasons, are subjected to arbitrary criminal proceedings, and about political prisoners in detention being abused or even tortured. these stories today took us to kazakhstan, to iran and to guatemala. but, commissioner, could you please brief us on the situation of political prisoners in france and in spain? what is happening to those hundreds of people, or thousands maybe, who, during the mass demonstrations, were detained by macron’s authorities? how are they doing? what do we know about their legal situation? and what about those political prisoners who were detained because they were fighting for the self-determination of catalonia? i wonder if you could give us a brief or detailed introduction to their situation?
in writing. it is very sad that in the 21st century europe, investigative journalism can be deadly. everything must be done to ensure that the perpetrators are caught and that such barbaric acts can never happen again! at the same time, it is unacceptable that the european parliament uses the debate on the killings in malta and slovakia to lash out at hungary in a new general rule of law debate, where no journalist has been killed, no journalist is in prison and no one has been jailed on trumped-up charges. it is also outrageous that the draft resolution of parliament entitled 'the situation of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the european union, in particular in malta and slovakia' includes a reference in which the european parliament urges the council to take part in the article 7 procedure against hungary, to which it would have no right under the founding treaties. it is clear that the intention of the left-wing and liberal meps is to put pressure on our country on all fronts to change our position against mass migration. only in this way can criticisms of our country appear in reports and resolutions that do not affect hungary in content!
in writing. two and a half years ago, we set out to make europe's electricity market more competitive, affordable and environmentally friendly through a comprehensive reform. as i said at the outset, the main objective of the current and all future reform packages should be to support consumers. we are here to represent the citizens of europe, and we must take their interests into account when we make the laws of the future. the package of proposals proposed by the parlement would have abolished the regulated prices for private consumers, leaving the price of electricity to be determined solely by market fluctuations. this would have abolished many benefits for the general public, including the reduction in the hungarian state budget, in one fell swoop. i am glad that common sense has prevailed in the interinstitutional negotiations and that this ban has been removed from the text, and i shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
madam president! in recent years, the european commission has unfortunately consistently rejected two european citizens' initiatives aimed at promoting the cause of indigenous national minorities in europe. it is therefore satisfactory to note that the eu's luxembourg court of justice has finally overruled the illegal decisions of the ec in both cases and granted registration to the european minorities initiative and the citizens' initiative on national minorities. i would also like to draw attention to the regional initiative of the national council of szekler in romania, which seeks to win eu cohesion, structural and regional support for the economically backward regions of szeklerland and partium in order to eliminate discrimination on the basis of minority status and to bring them economically closer together. we've already collected one million signatures, let's get the second million.
in writing. the proposal for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund highlights the key role of these two funds in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, developing digital infrastructure networks, promoting sustainable multimodal mobility, improving the living conditions of disadvantaged groups (such as roma communities), to name just a few areas where significant progress can be made with the erdf and the cohesion fund. i also agree with the point in the report that the erdf should pay particular attention to demographic change as a priority area in the design and implementation of programmes. however, i do not share the rapporteur's view that cohesion policy should play a role in the reception and integration of refugees and migrants, much less that there is a mutually reinforcing link between integration and local economic growth. the european union's pressing demographic problem of rapid ageing must be tackled by family support policies and not by bringing non-third-country nationals to europe.
in writing. for the western balkans to be successful in eu integration, a credible, tangible accession perspective must be offered to our neighbours. the ipa programme is well placed to do so, with sufficient resources to make its impact felt directly by citizens. but that will only happen if the aid is really used for the public good. it is therefore essential that citizens in the candidate countries know and want to have a say in what and why the ipa supports. they also hold their leaders accountable for what they do with the money. in other words, if we want the south-eastern part of the continent to develop in peace and successfully, we cannot allow the western balkans to follow the path of viktor orbán. we cannot allow citizens to be blind to the eu's resources; to let brussels' aid become a symbol of waste; to let money be stolen by mafia structures, perhaps also there, driven by politicians. the proposal before us sets out the appropriate framework and i support it. i also ask the european commission to consider, when drawing up the detailed rules for ipa iii, broad social consultation in the beneficiary countries on the use of eu funds; the establishment of monitoring committees including representatives of economic operators and civil society; and the provision of the most detailed information possible to citizens on the fate of funds.
mr president the report on the arab spring and its aftermath presents the events of 2011 as a spontaneous event and a great one. dictatorships have been replaced by a society of democracy and freedom, but of course there are still problems. the reality is that the arab spring was primarily an american project, involving american, british and french forces. dictatorships were abolished, but anarchy came in their place. look at what libya has achieved in eight years of democracy. and the most serious consequence for us is the arrival of illegal migrants, threatening the security, the identity, the culture of europe. the report could cover a number of eu problems, such as the unresolved situation of indigenous minorities and their legitimate demand for autonomy. if we're going to talk about the arab spring instead of these, let's at least talk about reality.
mr president the european union's commitment to play a significant role in shaping the future of the middle east and north africa region, which is suffering from a multifaceted crisis, and in helping countries to recover from the effects of the arab spring, is to be commended. the management and resolution of the migration crisis in the mediterranean region, which is emerging and expected to worsen, is in the common interest of issuing, transit and destination countries, namely the middle east, north africa and sub-saharan africa, and european states. the union must review its failed migration policy. by eliminating the root causes, and with broad international cooperation and support, they should be able to stop illegal immigration in their countries of origin. it's not about bringing trouble, it's about bringing help. this is the hungarian model.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the single transport market and the freedom to provide services have been the driving force of the european economy for decades. unfortunately, some member states have adopted national measures that have caused deep cracks in the single european carrier market. the european commission's proposals have not brought about any improvement, but have left the member states completely divided between the centre and the periphery. rules have been proposed which, at present, are simply unenforceable. in the council, against nine countries, the position was overwhelmed by one abstention. parliament is now in charge. everyone talks about principles and european values, but one of the cornerstones of the eu, the free provision of services and the single internal market, can be damaged if we force decision-making. without transport, there is no successful european economy, and any disruption to transport makes production more expensive, and citizens have to pay the price in the end. we need to get back to the negotiating table and find a real compromise. and that takes time and composure, but it lacks both. it is too late, we are at the end of our mandate, and all the groups in this parliament are divided and unable to negotiate calmly. i don't know if we'll be able to work a miracle and find a compromise by next week, out of 1,200 amendments. i don't think we can negotiate in a week what we haven't had the chance to negotiate in two years. it is increasingly clear that the new parliament must be given the task. no deal is better than a bad deal.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by mihai ţurcanu on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules for the placing on the market of ce marked fertilising products and amending regulations (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1107/2009 (com (((2016) 0157 c8-0123/2016 - 2016/0084 ((cod)) (a8-0270/2017)
thank you very much, vice—president, for your work and your team’s work.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 28 march 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
on behalf of the verts/ale group - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. safe drinking water is a fundamental right that cannot be denied to any european citizen. this was the case with the european citizens' initiative on the right to water, which was the first successful citizens' initiative in the eu to make this demand, and as a result of which we are standing here today and the commission has put forward the proposal which we hope the european parliament will support at first reading tomorrow. yet there are many citizens in the eu who still lack access to adequate drinking water. whether it's because they're members of minority, marginalized groups who simply don't have access to tap water, and we're talking about hundreds of thousands of people in the european union, or because their governments, and this is the case in hungary, are unable to ensure that the quality of tap water is that it meets eu standards and meets the expectations that we have for safe drinking water. they cannot provide this, despite the fact that the european union is providing millions of euros to the member states to implement the developments that would make this possible. unfortunately, these resources are not being used properly either. the use of eu funds is often a hotbed of corruption and does not achieve the objectives that would result in the provision of quality drinking water. and good drinking water is not just about health or drinking water. as has been said, if we can restore the trust of european citizens in tap water, we can radically reduce the demand for bottled water and thus radically reduce the generation of waste. and to restore that trust, we have a proposal to pass tomorrow. unfortunately, the council has not done the work to make this possible, and in the future not only the council but also the governments of the member states will have to do everything possible to ensure that, in implementing the proposal, they can provide safe drinking water for all european citizens.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work, and especially jeroen lenaers, with whom i have worked most closely. this work was not always easy, however, as the s&d group welcomed the reform of the internal and judicial databases and the creation of interoperability between them with a number of legitimate reservations. i am convinced that these databases for different purposes were not created by chance but were created separately for deliberate data protection reasons. of course, and i understand that in the midst of the current security challenges, there is a need for systems that can prevent identity fraud and help individual authorities work more efficiently. at the same time, and we all know this, the protection and proper handling of personal data is a highly sensitive area, and therefore the transformation of these systems requires very careful consideration. in this context, i should refer to the reservations of the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor concerning the need for centralisation of identity management and proportionality, not to mention the huge costs. however, i do not think that it can be assumed that third-country nationals are inherently a security risk for the european union. i consider this an exaggeration and am concerned about the tendency in this report to restrict fundamental rights on the grounds of security. i am convinced that we must build a europe in which fundamental rights and security are not opposed but complementary. i think that in the end, despite all the debate, we have come to a basic regulation which is generally acceptable, acceptable, based on responsible compromises.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i'd like to congratulate my colleague milan zver on his report, he did a great job. erasmus plus is already known and used by millions of young europeans, and this new programme offers opportunities to increase their skills and competences and language skills through the new programme. the tripling of the budget of the new erasmus plus programme is very important for us in order to make it possible for as many people as possible to participate in this programme, in the different mobility schemes, and it is also important to make the programme simpler, more accessible and to support smaller projects, to support them more effectively. i am pleased that the new programme focuses on language learning, and participants can receive online language support, including national guidelines. support for multilingualism should not only be aimed at supporting the learning of the major european languages, but also at encouraging the majority of people to learn indigenous minority languages and endangered languages, as well as neighbouring languages, which can provide a significant impetus for strengthening cross-border relations and projects. i would encourage such applications and would draw attention to the importance of strengthening vocational training programmes and also of paying greater attention to talent management.
mr president, i don’t want to take up your time. i dressed up like this today because i am of romani descent and next week is international romani day – 8 april. last week, this parliament celebrated this beautiful week with roma week. thank you very much to everybody for taking part in it and this time i’m rising up to thank the romanian presidency for seeking to stop evictions all around europe. as you know, the weather is getting better and the poor people are being evicted. this is the only presidency ever in the european parliament who was ready to talk to us, from eu money, to solve the issue of the living conditions of the poor people of europe. next week is 8 april. i ask the six parties to support the commission’s efforts to put a very strong pro—roma and anti—poverty strategy on the table in the council.
in writing. energy union integration is a success story. a series of thoughtful and competitive regulations opened up previously isolated markets, increased diversification and successfully brought down consumer prices. the gas crises of 2006 and 2009 have demonstrated that europe's need to reduce its unilateral dependence is essential, as the union cannot afford to be so exposed to the political will of a single supplier. the commission has also been active in the field of energy efficiency, with a particular focus on the energy sector. the nord stream ii gas pipeline project not only completely violates these rules, but also creates new problems. it makes our exposure to a single provider critical and further destabilises an already suffering region, ukraine. i hope that the european commission will really act as the impartial guardian of the treaties and apply to nord stream the same rules that all other european projects must follow.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. first of all, i would like to congratulate rapporteur gabriel mato on the fact that, like me, he regards aquaculture as a key sector, one of the pillars of the union's fisheries policy. i would like to thank him and all the members of the committee on fisheries for including the word 'aquaculture' in the name of the fund and even dedicating a separate chapter to the sector in the regulation. this is a huge victory, as fish farming can significantly help fisheries, and there is a great potential for this in landlocked countries such as hungary. hungarian freshwater fish farmers have been waiting for this breakthrough for many years, especially in recognition of the fact that they produce high-quality, healthy fish food and provide important environmental and nature conservation services through their fish farms that support diverse wildlife. the european union is finally giving them a big boost. that is why i have been fighting constantly since i became the only hungarian member of the european parliament's fisheries committee. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) for the area of the internal market. fish farming therefore has a major job creation potential for rural citizens, and this is the most important. that's why we need to focus on this. i ask my colleagues to support the fisheries committee's proposal.
in writing. eu citizens are becoming more mobile. currently, more than 15 million eu citizens reside and more than 11 million eu citizens work in a member state other than their own. more than one billion people travel within the eu or across its external borders every year. however, recent terrorist attacks in europe have shown that guaranteeing the security of identity documents is key to restoring and preserving europe's security. strengthening the security of travel and identity documents also plays an important role in the fight against organised crime. the proposal to increase the security of documents is therefore timely, as increased security of documents plays an important role in improving security within the eu. the use of biometric identifiers, and in particular fingerprints, will make documents more reliable and secure, reducing the risk of forgery and misuse of documents.
in writing. the directive aims to set minimum standards, but it must also take into account the principle of subsidiarity, as family law matters are a matter for the member states to define. member states may provide for more favourable conditions than those laid down in the directive. hungary wants to achieve a better balance between work and family life through non-coercive measures. hungary is very strong in supporting families and encouraging childbearing, which includes supporting women in returning to work. paternity leave also plays a role, but in hungary it goes beyond that: by 2022 we will have full day care facilities and we will introduce the grandparent's allowance: if the family decides, the grandparent who is actively working can also stay at home with the child and he will be entitled to financial support. there are many different solutions, so i think it is up to the member states to decide how to support women and families beyond the directive. we believe that families are mature enough to decide to transfer parental leave, and nothing should be forced on them. the level of support should be set by member states in such a way as to strengthen the use of parental leave by both parents. we support taking parental leave until the child is eight years old. we also support the institution of carer's leave, but the detailed rules here again have to be drawn up by the member states.
in writing. equality between men and women cannot be achieved through legislation alone. beyond the state, in everyday life, thousands of cultural, social, economic, and cultural traditions impose a hardship on women, making it impossible for them to live a life that is worthy of their talents and aspirations. a key issue in this area is childbearing and family life. it is important for the balance of children and the family that both parents take part in the education of the child. gender equality is a core value of the union. it is enshrined in the treaty and is the cornerstone of the european pillar of social rights. however, it is not valid in all eu countries. this calls for action by the union which not only helps to eliminate all forms of discrimination but also gives european unity a positive content that is accessible to citizens. as a hungarian, i consider the role of the union to be particularly important. just a few days ago, the orbán government decided to introduce a lying and unfair family support system that favours rich families but leaves them alone, or worse, traps low-income earners in a debt trap. it discriminates against women, divorcees, dysfunctional families, not to mention same-sex couples. it's disgraceful, illegal, bigoted and stupid, like the orbán regime itself. in this report, the european union sets an example for a modern, fair and effective family policy. so i'm totally behind you.
thank you very much for your intervention. we are going to put it into the notes.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the romanians and i know what it is to be in your shoes, being hungarian. but this speech is against double standards and i have to say that ms gräßle has reconsidered many of the accusations that i’m against hungary, as also this time against romania. many times it comes to light – how come romania has come so far when it comes to the integration of the poorest people? today there is a crisis situation all around europe, with people being sent out of their settlements because eu money is only very slowly coming to these places in europe. so i would like to ask the romanian presidency to stand together with the council, with the commission – several commissioners, among them madam crețu – to make sure that the unused money in the structural funds will be very quickly used to help those citizens of europe who are not receiving the eu money being spent on them because there are difficulties in the bureaucracy and therefore they will be evicted. so please, let’s stop eviction everywhere in the roma settlements around europe... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i have a specific question for ms. jurova. are you aware of the criminal case of istván beke and zoltán szőcs from the handshake area? this is a good example - i quote - of what has been said here many times, namely that politics is putting pressure on criminal justice and, in a way that is reminiscent of the most shameful bolshevik times, in conjunction with the secret services, politics is using the judiciary, the criminal justice system, imprisonment, pre-trial detention, to achieve political goals. in the case of beke and szőcs zoltán, people who are fighting exclusively for the human rights of the hungarian national community were sentenced to five years in prison in a conceptual criminal trial, and romania considers them political opponents and imprisons them. what do you know about this case, and what advice would you give to the next of kin?
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. europe and ukraine are facing crucial elections. we'll know in may where to go next. i hope that europe will have leaders who value their christian european roots, their family and their indigenous national minorities. and on easter sunday, ukraine will hold the second round of the presidential election. easter means resurrection, hope and faith. i am confident that the president will be elected democratically by the will of the elected citizens and that ukraine will finally embark on the path of european rule of law, corruption will be eradicated and real reforms will begin. i hope that ukraine will have a president who does not divide citizens into first and second class, who respects the acquired constitutional rights and international commitments. i also hope that after the elections, ethnic tensions will ease, and the creation of an enemy image, the smears and the anti-hungarian attacks will end. the extremists will be curbed and the elected president will protect the rights of national minorities living in the country, including transcarpathian hungarians.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. as a citizen of my country, i am pained to see that the deteriorating situation of the rule of law in romania has been on the agenda of the ep since october last year. as a romanian hungarian, i must once again draw attention to the systemic anti-hungarian and minority hostility, which is also a serious violation of the rule of law and which is deeply ignored in the commission's reports. specifically, i demand the immediate release of political prisoners istván beke and zoltán szőcs imprisoned by the nationalist, post-communist romanian regime linked to the secret service because of their hungarian identity, and the immediate cancellation of the unlawful fine of eur 100 thousand imposed on mayor mihail katona for using the hungarian language! i ask for the effective support of parliament and the commission in resolving this and similar cases of deprivation of rights.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in november 2017, the agreement on the european pillar of social rights was proclaimed in gothenburg and signed by the heads of state or government of all countries. the legislation we're discussing today is the beginning of the construction of that pillar. within the union, detailed rules have been established to ensure the proper functioning of the single market. it is time to establish minimum standards for workers' rights. the report deals specifically with shiftworkers. it stresses that competition does not undermine the fundamental rights of workers. yet, we can see this today in hungary, for example. the surplus bill passed by the ruling parties, which the public calls simply slave legislation, serves the interests of global corporations. this is contrary to the european social model, which is explicitly aimed at preventing the exploitation of workers in new, more flexible forms of employment.
in writing. this debate today doesn't make much sense. it can only be used to further incite anti-israel sentiment by those who are interested in it. the political and military situation has not changed, and the eu's position on the israeli-palestinian relationship and the golan is well known. we also know that donald trump recognized israel's sovereignty over the golan heights primarily because he wanted to help netanyahu's election campaign. but this did little to help israel's situation. at the same time, we all know that the golan heights cannot be discussed without taking into account israel's legitimate expectations of its own security. it is the primary duty of every country, every nation, to ensure the safety of its citizens. this is also true for israel, whose northern borders are particularly vulnerable. iran's presence in syria, the terrorist actions of hezbollah, to name just a few. if we ignore these aspects, we are engaging in a one-sided disguise. just as it is a futile argument to demand that peace be based on a return to the pre-1967 borders. debates like this one are only good for avoiding facing political realities, avoiding finding innovative new solutions. this does not mean that there should not be a democratic solution to the palestinian problem. but the solution is not to argue like this.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr luis de grandes pascual on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products (com ((2018) 0439 c8-0257/2018 2018/0229 cod)) (a8-0482/2018).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the text of the statements by the council and the commission on the possible extradition of julian assange (2019/2704 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion.
in writing. it is unacceptable that this dossier, after its defeat in the council, is being forced to a vote by the left-wing majority of the ep without a majority in terms of numbers or principles. in its current form, the regulation is more about building walls between western and eastern europe. the draft regulation and the left-wing amendments to it are unacceptable in terms of the applicable law, administrative rules, prior notification of secondments and indexation of family benefits and are in breach of the eu treaties. i have said many times: there can be no second-class children in the eu! a person working in a western european country contributes to the social security and tax system of that country with the same contributions as local workers, but why should he receive less benefits just because his child lives in another member state? this is clearly discrimination! i consider that, on the whole, neither the basic text nor the proposed amendments are of a standard which would enable me to vote in favour of the report. this is particularly true in the light of the recent ep mobility package. in many ways, the two are closely linked. i shall therefore vote against this proposal because it is only for the protectionism of the countries of western europe and not for the good of europe.
in writing. as so many times in its history, the union is faced with a choice. in 60 years of peace, europe has been transformed. borders have disappeared, and european citizens can move, work and live freely in any member state. for a growing number of our companies, the market is now the whole of the union. our young people go abroad to study, of course. europe has gone from being an abstract geographical concept to being a real, shared home, but citizens want more. the union will only fulfil its mission if it hears their voices and meets their legitimate expectations. the expectation is that of a social europe. a union that ensures that its citizens not only have rights that are declared, but also have the opportunity to exercise them. if you work, you shouldn't be miserable. whoever has worked all his life, may he be safe in his old age. no one should fear that an unexpected illness will leave his family in misery. everyone should be able to count on the protection of the social network when in trouble, whether they live or work in any of the member states. one of the basic conditions for this is the coordination of the social and labour systems of the member states. europe can only be truly united, and only successful, if the union puts people at its heart. that is why i support the proposal before us, that is why i am for a strong, social europe!
mr. president, i have to ask you... i hate christian europe. i hate it and i punch it in the face: for a hundred years, but perhaps for two thousand years, this is a crazy, dirty, vile world, this is the pharisaic europe! [...] my country, unhappy europe, / if you survive the end of the fighting, can you still stand god, / love and peace? my colleagues! the hungarian poet lőrinc szabó wrote the poem in 1923 with the first and last lines of which i say goodbye to the european parliament. god protect and guide my country, hungary and christian europe! god bless you, see you later.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, roberta metsola, for her constructive and open cooperation, without which this proposal would never have been prepared. i also thank commissioner avramopoulos and his staff for their continued support. when the number of refugees arriving in europe unexpectedly and dramatically increased in 2015, ensuring the protection of europe's borders became an important and urgent task. this is why the new frontex bill was born in 2016. the present report is a further development of this law. the current proposal gives the agency a broader mandate than before, more substantial financial support, and more specialists to carry out its tasks. it was particularly important for me and my group during the negotiations to ensure that frontex's primary task remains the rescue of refugees stranded at sea. this is a humanitarian duty the agency can never, under any circumstances, relinquish. we cannot allow far-right governments and ministers to play with people's lives for selfish political gain. the current proposal, however, gives the agency substantially more powers than before to return legally rejected asylum seekers to their home country. however, this can only apply to refugees within the territory of the european union, and the agency has no political or legal capacity to participate in actions that return rejected refugees from third countries to third countries. i also think it's a moral step that this report strongly reinforces the agency's commitment to respecting the human rights of refugees, to respecting their fundamental rights. finally, i find it extremely regrettable that, while we have made a legitimate effort to protect europe's borders, the council has been unable to reach an agreement on a common european asylum system. political narrow-mindedness and self-interest have prevented the reform of the dublin system, or indeed the adoption of the preliminary agreement of the asylum agency, which has been in place since the summer of 2017. however important border protection is, it is not enough on its own, we need a new regulation that is broader, that is based on solidarity between member states, that takes into account the social integration of refugees, and that will be the task of the next parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. frontex can in principle contribute to the protection of the external borders of the european union. however, since border protection is primarily the responsibility of the member states, the mandate of frontex is strengthened and its strengthening should not affect the sovereignty of the member states. the agency shall not jeopardise the performance of the border management tasks of the member states and shall only operate in cooperation with the member state concerned. it's questionable whether it's really going to work that way. we regret, however, that the agreement reached does not allow frontex to assist, for example, in the deportation of illegal residents at the macedonian border or to other balkan non-eu member states. so he won't be able to play a major role in returning illegal immigrants. the hungarian government's primary objective has always been to strengthen border security. in hungary, we have taken the lion's share of the responsibility for protecting the external borders, thus protecting europe, without having received any eu support for this so far. what we're most looking forward to is that the eu finally provides more financial support for the protection of the external borders, as hungary has never seen such money before.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr tadeusz zwiefka on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital tools and processes in company law (com ((2018) 0239 c8-0166/2018 2018/0113 ((cod)) (a8-0422/2018).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by evelyn regner on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a directive on cross-border conversions, mergers and divisions (com ((2018) 0241 c8-0167/2018 2018/0114 cod)) (a8-0002/2019).
president, mrs von der leyen, the turnout in the european elections in the netherlands was the highest ever. there was a furious campaign to convince the voters. the european shortlist was organised in the form of televised debates. the vote was ultimately one of optimism, but also of influence over who the new commission president would be. a large majority in the european parliament was clear: we would only be in agreement with one of the spitzenkandidaten as president of the new commission, as we were five years ago. the election was over and the raffle was on. in the end, your name came up in the high hats of european heads of government. a common sound in the netherlands is: then why did i vote? people feel cheated, and i understand that feeling very well. in the council, the spitzenkandidaten process was turned on its head by a semi-autocrat like viktor orbán. the polish and hungarian governments are celebrating your nomination as their political victory. i am not personally to blame for that, but it is therefore particularly important that you take a clear stand on the rule of law in this debate. hence my simple question: do you support the article 7 proceedings which the commission and parliament have initiated against the polish and hungarian governments in recent years? because there can be no doubt about it. the whole thing about your nomination shows that we still have a long way to go to make europe more democratic, and that means even more commitment from you, but also from us. mrs von der leyen, your speech contains a number of points which will appeal to progressive voters. if you are elected today, you can count on the labour party's support for a green, just and social europe in the years to come.
thank you, madam president. i would like to welcome you to the european parliament, mrs von der leyen. a lot of things have been said already: migration, climate, rule of law. so i'll be able to cut it a little bit short. our policies are our foundations, but i would say that the key thing for us this morning, for you this morning, is to rebuild the link and the trust, first with us, the european parliament, and then with the europeans, quite simply. you are not responsible, mrs von der leyen, but it must be reminded from time to time, for the original sin committed by the council, those three days of open-mindedness. and i applaud, we applaud your formal commitments to bring forward proposals for reform in this respect at the next convention. in telegraphic style, now that my time is running out, i am still short on three essential questions. first, the common agricultural policy: you have been remarkably discreet on this issue, to put it mildly. our technological backwardness, the digital age, artificial intelligence, robotics and industrial policy: what are we doing, what do you propose to finally bring out european champions? there are abortive mergers that hurt, still. and then, and this has not been said before, it's a double first for you: you're a woman but you're a doctor, and i'm glad. mrs von der leyen, you may not know this, but health was the poor relative of the last commission and the challenges are innumerable and cross-border: epidemics, rare diseases, lyme, shortages of medicines - we hear about them in the press every day - vaccines, anti-vaccines... what are you going to do? will you do better? however, you have our support and our support.
madam president, i would like to say to ms von der leyen that i happy that, in her political guidelines, she says that ‘trade is not an end in itself, it should deliver prosperity at home and export our values across the world’. but, we all know that, by importing products, we export breaches of human rights, of victims of modern slavery of indigenous peoples, we cause deforestation by consuming chocolate, textiles and other products. would you support a mandatory european law on human rights due diligence to european companies so that we can shed light on the unethical aspects of the supply chains? a second question: i come from the northernmost part of europe and i would like to remind you that climate crisis has some of the most dramatic consequences in the arctic circle and europe. your agenda for europe does not even mention the arctic. so my question is, will you take arctic policy as one of your political priorities for the new commission?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have drawn up a policy for the future of europe which is largely acceptable. if we want to beat unemployment we must have an economic policy which, however, is aimed primarily at the real economy. we need a european industrial policy with a target, as there is for environmental policy, 20% of gross domestic product must come from manufacturing, industry and agriculture. i ask you to strengthen, when you are president of the commission, the grow directorate-general, i ask you to implement the small business act to support small and mediumsized enterprises, i ask you to defend our industries from the chinese assault. he has made some interesting proposals, but we also need to have very serious anti-dumping rules. we need to defend ourselves against the giants of the web who have to pay taxes like all other businesses, but we also need to strengthen agricultural policy. the cap cuts are a mistake, and we cannot forget that industry and agriculture are two of the most important means of creating jobs in our european union. then, of course, as you said, access to credit: we must go ahead with the banking union, we must develop a capital market. on the other hand, as regards immigration, i ask you to reflect on what the european parliament has also voted for, more money for a real plan for africa, we need 50-60 billion. by 2050, we will have two and a half billion africans, and if we don't act today, it's not enough to have frontex guards, we need a real strategy to invest in africa, to fight climate change, poverty, disease, to defend agriculture and to fight terrorism. if europe does not act, we will have an invasion of millions, not thousands. so the next european commission has a lot to do. in conclusion, on the question of the rule of law, you have said very good things, but today is exactly 21 months since the murder of daphne caruana galizia, a journalist who was murdered in malta. we still don't know who's behind that murder. we must uphold the rule of law everywhere. we must defend freedom of expression, and also in countries outside the european union, i am thinking of venezuela, where there are millions of citizens of european origin, italians, spaniards, portuguese, even germans, who continue to suffer under a dictatorship. i believe that the european commission, like parliament, must make its voice heard in this respect too, because we are above all a community of values. you have said that, and i think that in the next five years we must continue to move in this direction.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. you have adopted many of the points on which we social democrats campaigned, including the unemployment insurance scheme, which your party fought against with passion. i would be glad to do so, if there were not the nagging suspicion that the member states will make your commitment so small in the negotiations that it will no longer be recognizable, and that with the christian-democratic governments first. i therefore take your announcements with a certain degree of scepticism. i could give you a vote of confidence, but i am opposed to this on institutional grounds and on grounds of principle. in the election campaign i campaigned for the leading social democrat candidate - a dutchman named frans timmermans - and again i chose to vote on the basis of shared political goals and values, not on the basis of nationality. and i promised my voters - as all the social democratic candidates from the spd have done - that we will only vote for one top candidate. and i intend, and we 16 intend, to keep that promise. many, not just in this house, have hailed the lead candidate process as a win for european democracy. my concern is that we are witnessing today the echo of the european lead candidate. so my question to you is: how do you expect the european council to guarantee that this is not the case? (applause from the centre)
madam president, it is a great honour and a great responsibility for me to stand here in the heart of european democracy and deliver not only my first comments, but the first comments made by my party in any parliament. i am a new mep from hungary, a wonderful country that many of you only hear about when there is a new attack on the rule of law or on civil society. i know that many of you are fed up with this. as a hungarian, i’m also fed up, because until now the european elite has turned a blind eye and appeased populists like viktor orbán. this has to change now. we must fight back against those who seek to destroy our union and ensure it remains a community of values. we must keep europe united, prosperous and secure. for that we need a leadership that is not afraid to defend european democracy. we expect actions, not words. the next commission must provide specific safeguards for protecting the rule of law, and leaders with the political will and ability to implement them. because today, standing for europe is often seen as standing for the status quo – but the status quo is not good enough: we need real change. (applause)
madam president, many of us thought that brexit is a lesson and an opportunity for the european political elite, a signal that a change of course is necessary. eu citizens are rightly discontent with the undemocratic and intransparent decision-making in this house and in other eu institutions. ms von der leyen, your reference to a strengthening of the spitzenkandidaten system was somewhat ironic, if not cynical; this is the system that was ditched in order to nominate you here. the spitzenkandaten system is far from being perfect, but it was a step in the right direction to select a nominee to head the european commission. your nomination just shows that the leaders of the eu ignored the voice of the european electorate and don’t learn from their earlier mistakes. such decisions and ignorance fuel euroscepticism and criticism, so beware and don’t be surprised: this is a disappointment for those who wish to see a stronger, more credible, more democratic and more transparent eu. ms von der leyen, it is not your fault, but you have greatly contributed to this disappointment, and this is why many people in this chamber find your nomination unacceptable.
mr president, mr prime minister, i am pleased that you have outlined your priorities for the finnish presidency today. it's obvious that you have a lot of experience from 1999 and 2006 and now i'm especially happy that we are together in a trio because i come from croatia and croatia will take over the presidency on january 1, 2020. from finland. so we agree on priorities. i particularly welcome, of course, the fight against climate change, which is compatible with the programme of our new commission president yesterday. also, of course, competitiveness, social inclusion, the security of the citizens of the european union, but what i want to draw your attention to in particular and what we are particularly interested in, especially as new members, is cohesion policy, which means that we are very interested in the multiannual financial framework. that's what you'll be working on, and i'm sure we'll continue. it is not in our interest, nor does this parliament want it, that cohesion policy is reduced. so it's very important that we make the most of this policy, that we make the most of the resources because our policies are actually seen through the multiannual financial framework, through the budget. it is the only way we can respond to the needs of our citizens. i hope you'll appreciate that.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister rinne for coming here and to congratulate him on his presidency and on the motto he picked, sustainability. prime minister, sustainability is the key issue that is going to shape our future and you rightly say that is the case within the european union as well as beyond. this is exactly the same as what we think in the socialists and democrats group, exactly what we have been working for, during the last two years, to focus on as our central element of our political programme. let me underline one element. please help us to make clear that sustainability also has to be the guiding principle of our external policies: trade, development, foreign affairs and especially the international fight, against inequality. that is crucial and you have our full support.
mr president, i must congratulate the finnish presidency and stress that it is particularly important because it has given the highest priority to safeguarding the rule of law, human rights, european and international law and european principles and values. but i must emphasize with all my heart the european parliament's move and remind you that for 45 years - these days mark the end of 45 years - turkey has occupied european territory, it has occupied cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome the european council's decision to take action as a positive step. but these measures have not found an echo in turkey and we have to - and here are all three institutions - prove that we respect these principles and values and apply them with all our strength and i am sure, my friend the finnish prime minister, that if something similar were to happen in finland, you would take every possible measure to stop the turkish provocation and expansionism, which is an insult and a provocation and a disgrace for the european union itself, because it is invading european space and european territory.
i am not going to go into detail. we now come to the spontaneous wording procedure. i have to tell you that we have five times as many verbal messages as we can handle in the time frame we've been given. we have some air. that is why i will allow some more than originally intended. i hope you will understand that in the groups i am concentrating on those members who come either from the country holding the presidency or from a country where colleagues have not been able to take part in the debate so far. spontaneous speech
mr. chairman, mr. prime minister, you have very ambitious and enthusiastic goals. you talked about wanting european education to be the best in the world. that would be wonderful, but we know that it is the member states that are responsible for the quality of their education systems. however, does this mean that you will support the increase of the erasmus programme, even threefold, as proposed by the ep and supported yesterday by the candidate for president of the european commission? i have one more request: the european solidarity corps programme will be discussed in the trilogue and i would like to see an agreement reached to ensure that travel, voluntary work and traineeships for young people under 35 are provided for. i would therefore like to invite you to help your presidency to complete the negotiations on this programme.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency on the work it has done, and i would like to start by saying something: we are a community of rules and values that are reflected in our culture. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, which is the foundation of the european union. solidarity: will we have the completion of the banking union with a pan-european deposit guarantee? we now move on to the rule of law: in the eastern mediterranean, states within the european union and states outside, we have been trying in recent years to build a partnership for prosperity and peace, focusing on the exploitation of energy and the role of the european union through the republic of cyprus. energy is of vital importance to the european union itself. the last european council decided to impose measures against turkey, which remains the international offender in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, finland has expectations of transparency in the council's decision-making and i would like to point out that when my president, mr ska keller, said that we had many ideas on how this could be done, i will mention a few of them. firstly, the minutes of the council working parties should be made public and the positions of the governments should be reflected in them. this would be transparency of decision-making and legislation, based purely on law and case law. secondly, the trilogy documents should also be made public, because they are also legislative documents. i hope that finland will promote such legality, because there are practices in the council which are clearly illegal. when you spoke of the role of national parliaments in accordance with good finnish practice, i would like to point out that this limited access to information by the council also makes it difficult for national parliaments to participate in decision-making.
mr. chairman, mr. prime minister, the rule of law is the foundation of this community. the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and respect for constitutional values and the european treaties are basic prerequisites for membership and participation in european policies. the eu must remain a democratic community of democratic states and any further deepening of its democratic deficit or erosion of the principles of western democracy at the national level are not steps in the right direction. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of the environment. there is also a dangerous tendency to broaden the definition of the rule of law to include only liberal social values. traditional values and a conservative worldview are not only restricted to the public sphere, but are completely excluded from it. the introduction of new mechanisms serves to impose a liberal worldview on sovereign states, which is contrary to the spirit of the union and poses a threat to its long-term survival.
mr president, i am pleased to see that one of the priorities of the finnish presidency is climate action. i believe it is extremely important that the eu's climate commitments are defined and achieved in a way that does not limit the union's global competitiveness and does not contribute to the growth of emissions in third countries. the eu's long-term decarbonisation strategy is the subject of a wide-ranging debate. in this context, i would like to stress that instead of ideological debate, we need to carry out a thorough analysis and planning and to be sympathetic to those member states which have the greatest difficulty in achieving the objectives set. at the same time, it is important that the achievement of climate objectives is implemented in a technology neutral manner with adequate union resources behind the objectives. i would stress the importance of all parties contributing to the implementation of the objectives of the paris agreement. the eu is leading by example, but it is essential that countries around the world set similarly ambitious targets.
mr president, prime minister rinne, we warmly welcome your aggressive commitments and your agenda for the first rotating presidency of this mandate of the european parliament. i have the honour to chair the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and to attend the relevant jha council of ministers over the next couple of days in helsinki, particularly on the 20th anniversary of the tampere council, which launched the areas of liberty, justice and security. in this regard, i would like to stress two points. first, the sooner the finnish presidency gets a mandate from the council to unblock the asylum package under the dublin regulation the better. second, as regards the rule of law, you must take seriously the resolution adopted in january this year to link budgetary benefits to member states in full compliance with the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. this is the most relevant point on your agenda. we wish you well. we wish you the best.
mr president first of all, i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency of the eu for making the maintenance and protection of the rule of law one of its main priorities for the next six-month cycle. i consider this a very important message, if only because it is something that the previous two eu presidencies have unfortunately abandoned. the european union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, and therefore the eu must act consistently not only in the event of excessive deficits but also in the event of violations of the union's fundamental values. without this, democratic values are devalued not only in the union but also in the member states. however, i would also like to send an important message to the finnish presidency: while maintaining the autonomy and independence of the judiciary is an integral part of the rule of law and must remain a priority, the eu cannot limit its protection of the rule of law to this. you should be able to reach a wider audience. it is also essential to address issues such as press freedom and media pluralism, because in a country dominated by propaganda media, we cannot speak of true democracy. thank you very much, and good luck and good work.
i'll close this discussion.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of the annex to decision no 1/2004/ec: but before we start this debate, i want to ask you to listen to me now, and for those of you who haven't, put your headphones on, because in this week's plenary we're going to be testing a new system. we want to 'catch the eye', which is spontaneous questions and flashcard questions, which are instant questions, electronically, if you're going to signal. the information on how to use the system has already been sent to all members by e-mail, so that they can use their request to speak using their electronic card. so i would also ask that if you want to speak, whether it's a "catch the eye" spontaneous speech or a yellow card on an immediate issue, please bring your voter id. this is of course a test mode, so during the transition period you will be able to raise your hand or hold up your card to indicate your wish to speak, but we would very much like to switch to the electronic system for a more efficient meeting. thank you very much. so first of all, in this debate, we're going to test this electronic system, and if you want to do it with a "catch the eye" or a greeting card, i'd ask that if you have a voter's card, you do it.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
the next meeting will take place tomorrow, tuesday 17 september 2019, from 9.00 to 14.00 and from 15.00 to 21.00.the agenda has been published and is available on the website of the european parliament. this court is adjourned.
mr. president, i have to go. the global fight against climate change and the implementation of the paris agreement by all parties is one of the greatest challenges of our time, as the impact of climate change is no longer just an economic and welfare issue, but in many cases an existential one. it is welcome that, at the initiative of the un secretary-general, world leaders are once again addressing this issue at the highest level. the european union can be proud of its achievements and commitment to combating climate change. the eu's 2030 commitment is by far the most ambitious of all the major countries. hungary is firmly committed to this work and to this objective. and this is evidenced by our performance so far, where gdp growth has been decoupled from our carbon footprint. but the fight against climate change is not just up to the eu, which accounts for just 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. this challenge can only be met if all states share the eu's ambition. in this context, it is particularly welcome that the mandate of the newly appointed vice-president-in-office of the european commission has placed a high priority on the conduct of international negotiations on climate change. the ep must monitor closely the implementation of this task, as the future of our planet is at stake.
madam president, as a hungarian-born belgian economist, the father of the euro, alexandre lamfalussy, made it crystal clear that a single currency cannot be successful without a fiscal union, which entails a common social, labour and – most importantly – wage policy. twenty years after the introduction of the euro, the eu and the eurozone are characterised by enormous social differences, mass migration of the work force from the periphery to the core countries, high youth unemployment and the demographic decline. if the european union and the european central bank do not deal with structural differences, social problems will lead to increased state debt – with further instability of the euro – and economic austerity will lead to anti-eu sentiment, weakening european cooperation. this is why i would like to see in this report some references to how the ecb will mitigate this risk of a social disaster and what the policy recommendations are to reduce the wage gap between the periphery and the core countries, and between the old and the new member states.
in writing. it is astonishing how much the role of rationality on earth has been taken over by emotions, by the fear of the non-existent, by the hatred of one another within certain nations. one of the disadvantages of technological progress is the systematic misrepresentation and manipulation of societies, which is a tool used by states to increase their power, to deceive, to frighten, and to blackmail their citizens. while this is increasingly becoming a global problem, see how putin's russia is more or less successful in influencing the decisions of previously shining democracies in its own interests, whether it's the us presidential election, brexit, or many other similar cases, here in europe, we are increasingly being targeted by this disinformation. i did. here, it seems that the good european states are struggling with the elements that affect democracy, while the reality is that there is an eu member state that is itself producing the fake news, spreading it by all means of state life, instilling fear in the electorate, and then generously offering protection if they vote for it. i am sad to inform you that this eu member state is my home country, hungary. i support the motion. but how can member states be called upon to act when one member state is the main offender? the fight against fake news can only be successful if we take action against the most powerful perpetrators, including the hungarian government.
madam president, please. we have seen the devastating effects of forest fires for years, and the catastrophe in the amazon region, which i consider to be a very serious matter, deserves special mention. i believe that it is the duty of the european union to provide all the material and technical assistance to those affected and those in need. i think that the way to deal with deforestation is to try to address the economic reasons behind deforestation. i was pleased to see that the new european commission is making the protection of forests a priority. i consider it important to implement the measures envisaged in the commission communication on this subject which is currently under discussion and i propose that they be extended to measures to eliminate the economic causes of deforestation. protecting forests, stopping forest loss is a global issue. it is important that the european union and its member states encourage the planting of new forests on their own territory. in hungary, the government sees support for forestry as a key issue. this year, it more than doubled the amount of aid available for afforestation and increased the duration of its availability.
in writing. in recent years, the world has been confronted with an increasing number of forest fires. let's remember california. this summer, siberia and the amazon basin suffered severe damage. but we don't have to go outside the union to find a similar tragedy. recently, greece and portugal have had to make great efforts to contain the fires, and this summer, the canary islands have had to continue their human-to-human struggle. it's terrible to see that while young people, celebrities, and ordinary people from all over the world are fighting climate change, and the world is becoming more committed to stopping the climate catastrophe, there are still some who look the other way and are appalled that 800 football fields of rainforest are being destroyed every hour in the amazon. it is disheartening that when we should be doing our part to fight global warming, some governments put their selfish political goals ahead of the lives of our children and grandchildren. their political interests are so blinded that they don't realize they're digging our graves. this happened when some middle eastern european leaders refused to commit to the 2050 carbon neutrality targets, or when, in an outrageous and cynical manner, the ruling parties did not participate in the national parliament's debate on climate change. a politician who is a climate change nut is a death sentence. we need to be all in on finding the tools that we can use to fight climate change, or not.
in writing. the debate on the state of brexit today has shown that the person who will be better able to avoid the conflict caused by brexit is the one who is not driven by emotions but by deliberate and informed decisions. the eu leaders are sticking to that, while the brexit party is just making noise. it has also become clear that britain's departure will weaken the far right in the european parliament in a terrible way, and the benefits are not small. this is two clear defeats for viktor orbán. on the one hand, he's losing a lot of allies with the brexiters leaving. the possibility that made fidesz so determined at the beginning of the year: it will not be able to turn the union into a club of lax far-right nation-state governments, like matteo salvini and marine le pen. at the same time, it is conceivable that in exchange for retaining his full membership of the european people's party, orbán will be forced to support the eu's brexit policy. it hasn't been this clear for a long time. what does that mean? that he betrayed salvini in the spring and now he's betraying the brexiteers in the fall. this is a difficult situation and one that is bleak for fidesz, which months ago dreamed that its leader, viktor orbán, would soon become a key figure in shaping eu policy.
in writing. support the democratic reforms launched in ukraine to increase transparency, create a fairer country and fight corruption. as ukraine works to dismantle the oligarchic system, it is forced to face continuous external threats, and its sovereignty and territorial integrity continue to be violated by the russians. ukraine's stability is also in the eu's interest, which is why, among other things, its aspirations to join nato should be supported. this is particularly important now that the russians are interfering in eu member states' elections and the eu is facing continuous cyber threats and disinformation campaigns. and that there is still a government within the eu that puts russia before its own country, that puts its own country in debt with russian loans (paks 2) and that allows russian spies into the european union through the russian-influenced international investment bank is totally unacceptable!
in writing. in recent years, new biotechnological processes, including gene and genome editing, have been developed and are gaining ground. in parallel, gm feed crops have been introduced worldwide, which may affect biodiversity, contribute significantly to pesticide resistance and introduce gmos into the natural environment. it is important to note that according to a eurobarometer report, more than half of europeans have a significant concern about gm foods because of the unknown risks. i think it is of paramount importance for the european union to ensure that future generations have access to healthy raw materials. the regulation of activities related to genetically modified organisms is a strategic issue for hungary. in line with our country's gmo-free strategy, the basic law and the precautionary principle, we want to preserve hungary's agriculture free of genetically modified organisms, thus ensuring the production of high-quality, safe and healthy food.
in writing. the european parliament has already dealt with the budget for the next seven-year period on several occasions. it is important that the finnish presidency has put this issue on the agenda. and it's just as important that the debate be concluded by the end of this year or the beginning of next year. the european commission proposes a smaller budget than before. the reduction would have a major impact on cohesion policy, resulting in a reduction of 20-25% for hungary, for example. this is not acceptable. i fully support the parliament's position that the union budget should reach 1.3% of the common gnp and that the real value of the resources for cohesion and agricultural policy should remain the same as before. similarly, i strongly agree that respect for the rule of law should be a precondition for the disbursement of eu grants. governments that undermine democracy, the independence of the judiciary, refuse to fight corruption - or even organise corruption - should not touch the money of european taxpayers. such governments should be excluded from the distribution of subsidies and instead municipalities, ngos, enterprises should be directly supported. the procedures for this are already laid down in the eu's budgetary rules. the union has a duty to do everything possible to protect its citizens from the mismanagement of illiberal regimes. taxpayers' money must be protected from corrupt politicians. but that doesn't mean that we have to exclude entire countries from aid.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following agenda item is the commission statement on the threat of violent right-wing extremism (in the light of recent events in halle, germany) (2019/2885 ((rsp)).
mr president, i would just like to confine my brief intervention to the subject of brexit, something which we have been trying to come to terms with for the last three years since we knew the result of the referendum. let’s be clear: the result must be respected, regardless of the small margin. the uk must leave and bear all the consequences of its decision. i think mr juncker was correct when he said that no extension should be granted. regardless of whether there is an agreement or no agreement, the uk should leave, and i also think that it is in the best interest of europe to let the uk go. the decision that the british people made three years ago was not an enormous surprise. british euroscepticism has a very long tradition. since henry viii, i think, this has been at the heart of british geopolitical thinking and, since this is a 500—year tradition, i respect it. but europe and the european union must also be very clear about the challenges it is facing and must be very clear about its priorities. europe must face migration, wage inequalities, economic disparities and climate change, and it must come up with a solution. if europe wants to be successful, it has to get rid of all the obstacles and the post—brexit fatigue, be very clear about terms and conditions when it comes to new candidate member states, and it must also be very clear with internal or external saboteurs who are trying to slow the process. so, as far as the uk is concerned, the decision to divorce was taken. it is time to move on for all.
madam president, i have to go. thank you very much, congressman. a yellow card would like to ask you an urgent question, representative rees-mogg. will you accept? i'll take that. i'd like to draw the attention of the hon. member to the fact that you have 30 seconds.
the question – the blue card is a question.
i'll close this discussion. the vote is tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following is the order of precedence for the budgetary procedure: the budget shall be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
madam president, many references here were made to the lack of unity in the european union and the failure to even release a common resolution, a declaration condemning turkish aggression. firstly, as it was hungary that vetoed this common declaration, as a hungarian i think i must apologise and make it extremely clear that, when viktor orbán speaks on behalf of hungarians, then it must be rejected. i can assure you that it is not in the interest of hungarians or of hungary to support any aggression, wherever it may be. no, it is not in the interest of hungarians, and as far as the turkish military action is concerned, we must understand turkish security concerns, but we also have to make it clear that there is no military solution to this problem, only political and diplomatic. this aggression only further destabilises syria, diverts attention from fighting terrorism and exacerbates the migration crisis. there were questions asked about where the european union is. we have been standing by and watching as our neighbourhood was destabilised in north africa and in the middle east. we must place europe back on the map and make it more visible before other dominant powers take over control. (last sentence inaudible)
madam president, please. i'm sure there are many in this room who have read the book that was born in the last century, the forty days of musa dagh. the terrible genocide that was depicted there now seems to be repeated, and we cannot afford to be silent. it is also unacceptable that an eu government, and i am talking about the hungarian government, should support an autocratic regime which is waging war against the syrian kurds, destabilising the region and causing a humanitarian crisis. let us be clear: by calling refugees enemies, by threatening them, viktor orbán has put himself at the service of an aggression that is forcing hundreds of thousands of people to leave their homes. the system in which the union's foreign policy operates today is also unsustainable. we cannot allow unscrupulous and unscrupulous politicians to prevent the european union from acting together on foreign and security policy issues again and again. i therefore call on the council to finally move from unanimity to qualified majority voting.
in writing. it is not easy to find the right words to describe the immeasurable evil that viktor orbán is committing this time in connection with turkey's military action in northern syria. viktor orbán vetoed a statement by the european union that wanted to draw turkey's attention to the terrible dangers of military action. the war against the kurds is another genocide which no european government, especially one which calls itself christian, can ever support. the turkish military action threatens to create another humanitarian catastrophe, similar to the one we recently saw in the syrian civil war, which resulted in hundreds of thousands of syrian civilians fleeing their homes. the turkish military action is expected to trigger a new wave of refugees and a resurgence of the once defeated islamic state. and when the european union wants to warn turkey about all this, the hungarian government vetoes it. why is viktor orbán interested in creating another crisis in europe? what could be the reason that you're defending genocide? can you think of anything other than the fact that europe is running out of refugees, so it cannot continue its policy of inciting hatred? the cynicism and malice of the current hungarian government has sunk to unprecedented depths. viktor orbán does not want to solve the refugee crisis, but to revive it.
madam president, mr. police officer, please. i want to emphasize that global warming is a very important issue that we need to address as soon as possible. scientific evidence shows that it's not too late to slow down climate change. i think that's why we can do the most with calm, well-thought-out plans. the european union needs to make a serious financial contribution to member states' spending if the eu is to become a climate-neutral economy by 2050. up to 90 percent of hungary's energy production could be climate neutral by 2030. the impact assessment also showed that the total carbon neutrality target for 2050 in hungary will cost at least eur 150 billion. in my view, the european union should make it a priority to maintain its competitiveness, which should be in line with climate objectives. i therefore believe that we must find a way to co-finance the costs of climate neutrality in the future in order to ensure that european operators remain competitive.
madam chair, global climate change is evident and clearly has a negative impact on the environment. we can't close our eyes to witnessing the loss of glaciers, to witnessing the amazon burning, all of which we've seen over the years, this summer. the world this summer recorded the hottest july on record, and even research seems to indicate that 2019 will be among the five warmest years. so it's obvious that something is happening around us that we can't turn a blind eye to. we must act and i agree with all of you who say that it is not the end of the world, but it is an emergency and all of this leads me to believe that it is good that we have this issue on the agenda today, that we are discussing this today at the beginning of this mandate and at the beginning of the work of the new commission, of which i will also be a member, and i am very pleased that mrs ursula von der leyen has put it in her programme as one of the main priorities of the green deal and that we will be discussing it in the first hundred days. it is something that is very important and that gives me confidence. i am also encouraged that the european council, at its summit last week, also spoke of a peaceful transition, in a conditional sense, to a peaceful and green transition, and that it will ensure the implementation of the paris agreement. of course, someone said that the meeting in new york in september was not very productive, but it was one of the first important meetings that happened after the paris agreement. i want to say in conclusion that it is definitely that we must leave our descendants a better earth than we received and that is our obligation both moral and legal and i hope that we will all continue to act in this sense.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i am an optimist by nature. so today i want to bring an optimistic message about a complex and big challenge like climate change. despite the turmoil in the council and the obstruction of many member states in the council, i am optimistic, madam president-in-office, that the new commission will come up with a good new green deal and a good climate law. and i hope for a large majority in this parliament to make the 2030 and 2050 targets very ambitious too. i would also like to start by saying that we must not be naive. if we are really ambitious and set high targets, then we have to make sure that we also protect our industry and give it the means to survive in that difficult, competitive world. so we're going to need a carbon correction mechanism or a carbon tax. i am not opposed to this, but i would like to see the polluter pay and our industry protected, with high ambitions.
madam president, let’s listen to science. we only have a few years left to take meaningful action against climate catastrophe. this is not radicalism: this is a fact. representing a member state that is home to some of the poorest regions of our union, i also have to add that fighting the climate crisis has to go hand in hand with the poverty crisis, because our poorest regions are the most vulnerable to these climate-related risks. those people are hit hardest who have the fewest means to fight back. we are dealing with a vicious cycle and we have to act now. if climate change threatens the health and livelihood of those people who are already vulnerable, escaping poverty becomes even more difficult, and this is why a just transition is the only way forward to a carbon-neutral and circular economy. politics is shifting throughout europe and i’m very happy for my hometown, budapest, whose newly elected leaders pledged to declare climate emergency, ending years of inaction, and i applaud the ambitious climate agenda put forward by ms von der leyen. but let’s not forget that effective climate action has to go hand in hand with a strong regional policy with more solidarity, leaving no europeans behind.
in writing. at the general affairs council on 15 october, the member states failed to reach agreement on the opening of accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. this is a serious setback. some leaders of western european countries are irresponsibly delaying the process of joining the european union for domestic political reasons. he fears that if the western balkan countries do not receive substantial support from the union in the enlargement process, geopolitically significant countries will gain influence in the region without setting any conditions for the countries in the region. this could pose a serious threat to the future of the union. political parties in north macedonia and albania have done everything possible to open accession negotiations, regardless of their political affiliation. both countries have implemented painful reforms, with north macedonia even undergoing a name change in order to begin accession negotiations after a 14-year wait. albania and north macedonia have met the required conditions, so it is incomprehensible why the two countries have not been given the green light to start negotiations. all of this undermines the union's credibility. the reform process on the future of europe should place particular emphasis on the legal frameworks for enlargement and neighbourhood policies. accelerate accession negotiations with serbia and montenegro, as any further delay threatens the political integration of the western balkans into the european union. the eu will only be stronger if we are attractive to our neighbours, if we support their development.
mr president, health is a fundamental human right – we all agree on that. but how can we make sure that people can actually exercise their fundamental rights? today we have way too many unmet needs and unequal experiences in our european member states. as a medical doctor, i can tell you that access to high quality healthcare in my home country, hungary, is not a fundamental right but rather a privilege. life expectancy is among the lowest in the eu, with unbelievably high health inequalities based on the place of residence or social status. access to care often only depends on the ability to pay, instead of needs. human capital is the core of any well-functioning healthcare system – let’s acknowledge that. we absolutely have to make sure that doctors and nurses are properly valued, as they are the strongest pillars of a healthy society. guaranteeing high-quality health care is a key objective of social protection and should be the priority of member states. we have to fight to ensure that eu cohesion policy could better serve the health of our citizens. we need to put pressure on governments to make sure that all citizens can exercise their fundamental right to health care and enjoy good health, regardless of their age, sex or social status.
mr president, in september thousands of protesters took to the streets in egypt – from cairo to alexandria to suez – in response to corruption allegations against president abdel fattah el-sisi. since then, el-sisi has overseen what human rights groups say is an unprecedented crackdown on dissent that’s led to the detention of over 3 000 people. over 100 of these are children – some as young as 11, several detained on their way home from school. detainees are added to a single charge sheet, accused of aiding a terrorist group, spreading false information, misuse of social media and participation in unauthorised protests. once again we remind the egyptian government that under international law people have a right to protest peacefully and a right to express their opinions, including on social media.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has a clear interest in egypt’s long-term stability and security, and it is our firm conviction that this can only be achieved if human rights are fully implemented and upheld, in line with the country’s international commitments, its own legal provisions and the partnership priorities jointly agreed with the european union. the european union continuously recalls the need for egypt to improve the situation of civil and political rights, including freedom of expression, both online and offline. the european union emphasises the importance of respecting fundamental freedoms of peaceful assembly and association and the rights of human rights defenders. the european union welcomes the passing of a new ngo law which replaces the much—criticised 2017 law. it is crucial that it is implemented in a way that allows civil society to work freely and that all restrictive measures for human rights defenders under the foreign funding case are lifted. large numbers of arrests took place in the wake of the 20 september protests. since then, arrests have been extended to those that did not take part in the protests. it is particularly concerning that arrests targeted politicians, human rights defenders, lawyers and journalists, most of whom are detained on terrorism-related charges. prominent examples are esraa abdel fattah, mahinour el-masry, alaa abdel fattah and mohamed el—baqer. these events take place against an otherwise positive recent record on social and economic rights. the european union is deeply concerned about reports of mistreatments, torture, forced disappearances and poor detention conditions. detainees should be treated in line with international standards. there is a clear need for accountability for all forms of pressure, harassment and violence against human rights defenders and civilians seeking to exercise their right to protest peacefully. the european union recalls that permitting space to varying views and for the expression of justified grievances will be beneficial, and civil society should thus not be subject to such measures as asset-freezes or travel bans. we are continuously engaged in bilateral dialogue with egypt within the framework of our partnership.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the proposed new criminal law for indonesia (2019/2881 ((rsp)). i have been asked to inform you once again that you can apply for the blue card by signaling with your hand or by electronic means and that you can apply for the spontaneous votes by electronic means now and not at the end of the debate before we get to the spontaneous votes. however, you must have your voting card with you and have it inserted.
author. – mr president, indonesia is a very important partner of the eu. it is extremely important also for my country, poland. all our concerns that are provided in our ecr draft resolutions are being raised in the course of the human rights dialogue of the eeas (european external action service) with indonesia. i sincerely ask my colleagues – parliamentarians – to adopt the amendment i tabled concerning a pole, a vagabond, a traveller, who was by mistake accused of high treason and sentenced to five years in prison just because of his love for papuan culture. i sincerely ask to raise this question, also on behalf of all poles.
author. – mr president, indonesia has long been a valued partner of the eu, with strong political, economic and trade ties. after recent elections in the country, a new political cycle has just begun, with a parliament and a president who is eager to finish reforms that were started decades ago. however, this proposed new criminal code had been a very controversial element of the process. thousands of indonesians took to the streets in protest, forcing decision-makers to postpone the vote on the new bill. and we are thankful for this decision, as it allows time for vital consultation. i also think that this is the right time for the european parliament to weigh in in the debate and stand up for the principles of basic human rights and democratic principles. this resolution focuses on the most contentious elements. around 20 articles are considered highly alarming, as they discriminate against women, the lgbti community and religious minorities. other provisions would criminalise contraception, extramarital sex or even criticising the president. if adopted in its current form, this new bill would represent a clear setback for human rights, free speech and democracy in indonesia. we hope that authorities will recognise their historic role in establishing a criminal code that serves to solidify the rule of law instead of fuelling dangerous social divides. therefore it’s urgent... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. next week is world children's day. we are now debating this in the european parliament. of course, here in the heart of europe there is a broad consensus on what we should do, although there is a broad consensus at home, in hungary, too! all injustice is sad. yet, nothing is more suffocating than when children are affected by injustice. we live in a society that puts a lot of weight on the feet of children, and then they get mad at them because they can't run faster. such a heavy burden is the bad and for many too soon-to-be-finished education, inadequate housing, and unaffordable health care. prejudice against minorities is a burden, but so is the immense hatred that children learn at school and even at home. the purpose of children's rights is to take these burdens off our children's shoulders. we want them to grow up to be liberated, intelligent, well-educated, self-confident, tolerant adults. i fight for these children's rights in the european parliament, and i fight for these children's rights in hungary. because there's nothing more suffocating than when children are wronged.
mr president, on the face of it, this dispute is over economic and energy resources. but this is only a consequence of the long-lasting and deeply rooted conflict. the council decision misses the point and doesn’t address the real issue of ethnic conflict on the island between turkish and greek cypriots. the conflict should have been resolved over a decade ago, before cyprus joined the european union in 2004. this should have been a precondition for membership. and the framework for settlement was in place at the time, with the help of the un, in the so-called ‘annan plan’. responsibility for non-compliance lies with the two parties – the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots – but also with the eu. yes, cyprus has a right to its territorial integrity and to defend its rights to access economic resources on this territory, but it also has a responsibility to settle the ethnic conflict peacefully by granting and respecting the rights of the turkish minority living on its territory. respecting the collective rights of minorities is a fundamental value within the european union. a best practice has been developed in the eu to grant widespread autonomy to minorities. look at the example of south tyrol in italy. it is high time to apply this best practice to every single member state of the eu, which brings peace and stability. i believe this is in the best interests of both greek and turkish cypriots and of the eu as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, once upon a time, in the dark ages, the church had more power than many kings. after the enlightenment, we thought we could put these dark times behind us. and what we're seeing in comparison is that religious fundamentalism is making a comeback, not just in distant continents, far away, but right here in europe, in the heart of europe. religious fundamentalists want to ban us again, to interfere with our most personal affairs, to interfere with who and how we love, how we teach our children. as a hungarian representative, i am watching with horror how the orbán system is exporting illiberalism to poland, and i have a fear that polish religious fundamentalism will appear in hungary, and again priests will determine every detail of our lives. i will not allow this, i will protest against this, and i have expressed this with my vote today.
madam president, the eu likes to see itself as an ambitious front—runner on the agenda of climate change, and indeed we are great at setting targets for the very distant future. but, last week, i was a member of an acp delegation to rwanda, and i listened to the eu’s partners from the pacific and the caribbean region. all these countries were basically already stating that they live the reality of a climate catastrophe and a climate emergency. what we are only talking about here now is already reality there, and they are fed up with our talking and our extremely long—distance targets and the declarations that we are making. action must be taken, and one of the first steps that we should take – and what the european union should be doing – is to get its partners, the greatest economies of this world, back on board and get them to take on the responsibilities that they agreed to when they signed the paris agreement. the eu cannot be left alone with that. it has to bring back the united states. it has to bring the g20 countries back on board and remind them of their responsibilities. i think this will be a great task for josep borrel, as high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to get back the partners – the greatest economies in the world – to join us in delivering on the targets of the paris agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the commissioner for the good cooperation he has shown over the last five years, particularly with regard to me. at lulucf, we have made concrete climate policy. i think that is much more sensible than talking about symbolism while one side of this parliament is denying climate change and the other side is having symbolic debates about declaring a european climate emergency. no, we are talking about concrete issues, concrete actions. let's talk about what agriculture and forestry can do, how to capture more carbon, how we can do reforestation, how we can do more humus production to combat climate change, rather than having these symbolic debates that are not going to get us anywhere.
mr president, a few days ago, oxford dictionary announced the word of the year – it was ‘climate emergency’, and it reflects our reality. all around the world, young people are on the streets telling us – politicians – to take real, meaningful action to avoid a climate emergency. we often feel that they are the only adults in a room; that they are the only ones to show real leadership. let me ask you, what kind of leaders are we if we fail to listen, and if we are stuck miles behind those people we are supposed to represent? with this resolution, we can send a clear message to these youngsters; a simple one: ‘we hear you, and we are here to act’. voting against the resolution is a different message. it’s the message of more business as usual. more procrastination. more inaction. that we are not willing to listen, neither to people nor to science. let’s vote for this resolution, declare climate emergency in europe and show to the world that the european union is the global leader in climate action and that this house is ready to treat the situation with the gravity it deserves, so that our citizens have the future they deserve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, we're all working together to find solutions to the challenges of climate change. so it's very important that we act in a coordinated and deliberate manner. when it comes to climate change, we need to think not only of the emergency but also of the opportunity. i am convinced that the european union can only become climate neutral if it makes the most of its knowledge. i would like to stress that thorough impact studies are needed to ensure that economic and climate objectives are not contradictory but mutually reinforcing. and let's show by deeds, not words, that the european union is the first to tackle the challenges of climate change. by declaring a climate emergency, i think we're giving decision-makers a sense of urgency, and what we need most now is wisdom and consideration, because if we do the wrong thing, we may end up going in the opposite direction of what we planned.
member of the commission. – mr president, to conclude, let me remind you why the european union accession to the istanbul convention has been a priority for the current commission and will be for president—elect and commissioner—designate for equality, ms dalli. too often we hear about women being killed, harassed or stalked by people close to them, children being abused or beaten by members of their families or harmed by persons they trusted. un figures estimate that 137 women are killed per day across the globe at the hands of their intimate partner or a family member, and we all know that these figures do not represent the full picture of this unacceptable violation of human rights. violence is not always visible. violence is perpetrated behind closed doors. violence is perpetrated both with words and actions. sometimes those words and actions are accepted just because they follow the logic of socially constructed gender roles and stereotypes. when the news opens our eyes or we become aware of violence being perpetrated right next door, in our communities, in our circles, in families we know, we feel powerless, astonished, shocked and angry. the istanbul convention is nothing but a powerful instrument to react to this, to prevent violence against women, to protect the victims and give them justice. we owe this to the victims and survivors of those crimes.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i have listened carefully to your valuable remarks and despite national and eu preventive actions, the prevalence of violence against women remains unacceptably high. it is clearly a common challenge to which we must respond. the finnish presidency, like the previous ones, has invested a lot of effort into making progress towards the conclusion and ratification of the istanbul convention. the challenges and possible solutions to ratification of the convention, both by the european union but also by those member states that have not ratified the convention, should be openly discussed. our presidency has striven to keep such a discussion on the agenda and engage in dialogues concerning the ratification of the convention. this debate and the debate on women’s rights in general is not just a matter for women, it is our common cause. women’s rights are human rights. over this past weekend, tens of thousands of people took to the streets in paris, in rome, in brussels and other cities. the message of our citizens is clear – violence against women has to stop. everyone should feel safe. everyone should be safe. our presidency will continue working in any possible way towards this aim, and as the presidency, we welcome the willingness of the incoming commission to take the lead on this issue. thank you again for this very important and valuable debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. two and a half years after the eu signed the istanbul convention, we must go further, to full membership. we must emphasize this strongly today, on the international day for the elimination of violence against women; the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. the number of women, girls and children who are victims of violence, which takes different forms (physical, psychological, sexual, online violence), gives us a glimpse of the reality of a phenomenon that is dramatically widespread in europe, but still undoubtedly underestimated: in fact, too many women do not report their violence because of fear, shame, economic reasons or because they are "devastated" in their self-esteem by the continuous abuse. this is particularly true when the violence takes place within the context of emotional relationships or within the walls of the home, often in the presence of children, who are indirect victims of one of the most serious forms of gender-based violence. it is therefore important that the union accede to the convention: to strengthen the prevention of gender-based violence, to provide protection and support to victims, to send a clear and strong message against these intolerable violations of women's rights and dignity.
in writing. i come from a country whose authoritarian leadership has failed to enact the istanbul convention on the prevention and elimination of violence against women and domestic violence for six years. the hungarian government denies the existence of domestic violence. its authorities often expressly impede prevention and detection. in fact, the hungarian police have made a video titled "you can blame it, you can blame it" about girls partying in twins, indirectly suggesting that they too can blame their abusive behavior. six years without a verdict in the case of a doctor who attacked his ex-partner, pouring a stinging liquid on her genitals. now i've been convicted, but i've been acquitted twice before by a convicted murderer who, despite a series of beatings, was never kept away from his wife, who he eventually killed. no man's rights would be diminished if the convention, which does one thing and one thing only, regardless of ideology, were finally enacted everywhere, including in hungary. it protects women and children from physical violence. the victims would be less mobile, the perpetrators less mobile. the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention also has a specific legal effect. the law created by the union must be in conformity with the convention and union law is binding on hungary. so i ask everyone who cares about women's and children's rights to vote for the convention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. many of the members of this parliament were active participants in the democratic transition that took place in 1989 in the eastern part of the continent. i am one of them, and although the velvet revolution is a moment to remember our czech and slovak friends in particular, it was a revolution that all eastern europeans, indeed all european democrats, felt was theirs and can feel it today. but looking back over 30 years, the picture is still unclear and in many ways fraught with grave concern. in the last ten years, there has been an anti-democratic change of regime in eastern europe, and it pains me very much as a hungarian that my country is at the forefront of this counter-revolution. if there is a task, a mission for the european parliament, it is to keep our societies, to keep the great and common society of europe on the path that the velvet revolution set out, and which already then rejected illiberalism and populism, which today's promoters were only then planning how to live back all the promises of our newly won freedom.
madam president, the european commission has imposed a fine of 2.5 billion euros on the hungarian government for its illegal use of subsidies. they cheated on development selection, they cheated on procurement and they cheated on settlement, and they cheated like there was no tomorrow. and viktor orbán is just shrugging his shoulders. there are no fed colleagues in the room right now, and there is no question of prosecution or investigation. this case shows that the illiberal bigwigs of eastern europe don't care about the european union's subsidies. cohesion funds, agricultural subsidies, all go into the pockets of friends, relatives and oligarchs. it is time for the commission and the council to finally draw the right conclusions. orbán and his kind must be ordered to stop. theft must be stopped, and we pro-european politicians must be brave. the direct support system needs to be established and launched to ensure that these grants go where they belong: to local governments, smes and ngos.
madam president, please. despite a positive shift in the attitudes of european societies towards lgbti communities, we have again reached the point where they need protection not only from a few extremist groups. today, once again, the lgbti communities are seen by the political groups with real power, and in many cases by the governments of eu member states, as the next enemy to be confronted by society in the hope of an electoral victory. while in poland, lgbtq-free zones are being introduced in some municipalities, in hungary, this is part of the government's rhetoric. for example, the speaker of the hungarian parliament has labeled as pedophiles the rainbow families who want to adopt children. these things can happen anywhere, unless we take decisive action and show where the line is finally drawn. we should not wait for lgbti-free zones to become widespread in hungary or other european countries. so while i am glad that the european commission strongly condemns what is happening in poland, there is little monitoring and little dialogue. meanwhile, the people involved are living in fear. i would like to ask whether we could possibly propose to include this in the article 7 procedure, as far as poland is concerned, because i think we cannot live in a europe where citizens have to live in fear simply because they are different or think differently.
madam president, dear ms von der leyen, after a difficult, protracted task of setting up the commission and the negative message of ditching the spitzenkandidat system for electing the president of the commission, we should be happy and congratulate you for putting together a team of commissioners – a college – and lining them up behind a very ambitious programme indeed. but to be successful at the end of your term, i think there must be two conditions that must be fulfilled. first of all, i think you have to regain the confidence of the european citizens by strengthening the european institutions, including the european parliament. and i think it would be a good start to investigate some of the suggestions that mr weber has put forward in his op—ed in politico yesterday. the second is policy and actions. the social pillar must be strengthened. not only the minimum wage but wage differences have to be eliminated across europe; climate change and the rule of law have to be acted upon. and i think you have to provide answers to these questions to counter the often legitimate arguments and criticisms of eurosceptics and populists.
madam president, the interference of foreign states in the electoral processes in europe, whether at national or supranational level, is nothing new. foreign powers have always tried to exert political influence on european countries, among others, in this way. because of technological advances, we may be more exposed today than we were in the past, but the intent of the external factors is the same. it's important to protect ourselves from foreign influence on our electoral and political processes in general. it is in the interest of our citizens who are often the target of propaganda activities specifically designed to mislead them. but just as important, we must stop deceiving ourselves by attributing our own failings to others. the growing discontent with europe's political elites and democratic institutions is only partly the product of foreign propaganda, and much more the bad work of european politicians who have distanced themselves from the people.
madam president, commissioner jourová, many of us voted this morning with a large majority in support of the commission of which you are vice-president. we expect a lot from your team: an increased budget - finally with own resources - the restoration of the social agenda, but above all the defence of the rule of law, democracy and european values, for which you are responsible in your portfolio of values and transparency. in all the languages of the union, there have been reports at this sitting of cases of interference in electoral processes. i cannot fail to mention the investigation launched at the national court in spain into the interference of the sinister group of russian spies who are experts in destabilizing unit 29155. but they're not alone, nor is it the only threat. the sinister steve bannon also lives among us, and he is always in favour of populism, the far right and reactionary nationalism. and so it is not enough to set up a working group, nor the special committee we are asking for in this european parliament. it is essential to invest in a european intelligence architecture that defends democracy. there is nothing more important than defending european values and defending democracy in the european union.
madam president, behind the article 7 procedure there is george soros, as his people cannot accept that hungary will not welcome migrants. cohesion funds will be taken away and given to soros’ organisations. we won’t be a european colony. just a few examples of good old school disinformation at its finest, straight from the heart of the european union. fake news, bots, troll farms, propaganda, disinformation. in case you haven’t noticed, we are at war, and the stakes could not be higher. we are fighting for truth. not our truth, not their truth, not anyone’s truth: it is the fight for objective facts and reality and – eventually – our sanity, and we are losing. we live in an era where facts and fiction are intertwined, and the border between arguments and propaganda is blurred. but i believe we have much to protect: the very foundation of our democracies depends on our ability to defend our values, our principles, and the right to objective truth. the eu as a community of shared values must be at the forefront of this fight. with brexit, we have already witnessed how disinformation leads to disintegration, and for once, history should not repeat itself.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in europe, we have seen many times in the 20th century, when the tools of democracy, of constitutionalism, were used to bring dictatorships to power, and each one ended in a terrible and sad way. and just when we thought we had that era behind us, we see, here in the 21st century, that behind the freedom of speech, i would say the sacred freedom of speech, evil forces are once again attacking democracy and freedom in europe. and of course we can see clearly that russia is desperate to stir up trouble in europe. we can see clearly that his aim is to prevent us from building a strong europe. he's doing it by using extremist parties to help him. we see this in italy, france, austria, the uk, and what hurts me the most is that in hungary, my own government is complicit in russian disinformation. europe needs decisive means and must act against this.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the following agenda item is attached to the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in israel and palestine, including the settlements (2019/2935 ((rsp)).
i would like to welcome you, the representatives of 500 million european citizens, to today’s plenary session. let me start with an announcement. pursuant to article 53 of the regulation of the european union 2018/1725 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 october 2018, the conference of presidents, at its meeting of 28 november 2019, following the deliberation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, approved the joint appointment by parliament and the council of mr wojciech wiewiórowski, as european data protection supervisor. the president will sign the appointment decision together with the president-in-office of the council.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the title of the debate can be different from the title of the resolution, so we can go on.
thank you very much for your comment. we will consider it.
that concludes the vote.
mr kelly, before i give you the floor, i would like to remind all of us that the deadline for submitting requests for oral explanations of vote is the start of the session. after the session starts in the future there will be no possibility, but this time the floor is yours.
in writing. the introduction of the european emergency number 112 was an important step towards the single telecommunications market and the fulfilment of the rights of european citizens in an emergency. however, this harmonisation is not complete, as the 800 freephone number does not cover cross-border calls. the time has come for family members of hospital patients to be able to call quickly and easily and to obtain information on the health status of their relative in another member state, and therefore the 800 customer service telephone number should be standardised throughout the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank the commission very much for its very promising communication. it looks as if, after so many previous generations have ignored calls for decisive action, we finally have a commission that seems to care about our future. i can’t wait to see these ambitious plans in the form of real legislation, because we have a very long way to go to deliver the green new deal historic accomplishment. it won’t be easy. the commission is ready; this parliament is, for sure, ready; renew europe is ready. but i’m looking over to the council. are you ready as well? because at the moment we still have three member states blocking the eu’s climate neutrality target, including my own country, hungary. we are still unsure if we will get an mff that will cater for our ambitious goals, and this is very disappointing. i hope that we can ensure that real climate action does not fall hostage to power politics and backdoor compromises and that we can fulfil the promise of a safe and sustainable future for all.
madam president, i’m glad to see that dealing with one of the greatest global challenges, climate change, has become a top priority for the new commission. this is a historic step indeed, and i’m very glad to take part in this debate on a proposal for the green deal. there is no question that europe, in this debate, must take the lead globally and set ambitious targets. but these targets must be realistic, they must be measurable, and they also must be feasible – and not by 2050, but much earlier; possibly by the end of the tenure of the commission. so i would like to see some intermediate targets, whereby by this commission becomes accountable for the targets that it is setting. of course, we also must state that we have wasted over a decade, when there was abundant finance and abundant liquidity on the global markets, so we need to set those operative targets and those operative programmes on which we can invest and we can take the ... (the president cut-off the speaker)
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i am very pleased with the development of the european green deal, the first continental plan to protect the future of our planet. here in the european parliament, we are also working to find solutions to the challenges of climate change as quickly as possible, which is why we have also supported the declaration of a climate emergency. in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, a financial framework should be developed that takes into account the interests of citizens and does not pass on the additional costs to consumers. the increase in energy and food prices is unacceptable and i believe that a solution based on cost-effectiveness, respecting the principle of technological neutrality and paying particular attention to supporting the poorest regions of the union is needed. the european green deal must therefore not only be ambitious, but also take account of the needs of member states and protect consumers and the union's competitiveness.
mr. president, daphne caruana galizia had to die to prevent the exposure of the extent of corruption and power-sharing in malta, reaching the highest levels of government. but his death has indirectly set something in motion, and has shed light on a systemic problem, and it's really affecting the highest levels of political governance. it is now clear that the highest levels of government were involved in the investigation into the galizia murder, and that the maltese law enforcement authorities were not acting properly in cases of corruption and money laundering. this raises very serious rule of law issues. i welcome the fact that commissioner reynders has written to the maltese government to speed up the judicial reform, but i would ask the commission to follow this reform process closely and to speak out on every single systemic issue and error, to be bolder and clearer than its predecessors. i would also like to ask, as a hungarian and european citizen, that we should not allow the governments of any member state to interpret the rule of law issues at will. it is in our common european interest that we all pay attention to these, whether it is hungary, poland or malta, this is not a private matter within a member state, it is our common european matter.
madam president, we are discussing here basically two funds which have served the purpose of enhancing european competitiveness in the agricultural sector and elsewhere – the cap and the cohesion fund. in contrast to the grand ideals, both have become hotbeds of corruption within the european union and instruments in the hands of oligarchs and illiberal regimes, with the tacit agreement of eu decision—makers. now if we are looking at the common agricultural policy, which makes up over 40% of the total budget, we can see that in contrast to the aim of enhancing the competitiveness of the european agricultural sector, this area has become a hotbed of corruption, and here my colleague has referred already to the new york times article which has demonstrated that the cap is intentionally untransparent, contains loopholes and is prone to corruption, and undermines even the eu’s environmental objectives, and every reform which is proposed is basically sabotaged by the decision—makers. when it comes to the cohesion fund, when we are looking at why the eu doesn’t want to put forward reforms, then we should refer to the cynical opinion of the previous commissioner for the budget, günther oettinger, who says that eu funds should not be used to sanction, because every single euro which goes from the donor states to the recipients basically goes back to the donor states because the recipients use these monies to buy goods and services from the donor states. so we should finish with this cynical type of programme and look at how corruption must be tackled at the heart.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to ask mr deutsch whether conflicts of interest such as those which are also justified under article 7 of the ec treaty, the elios case in which viktor orbán's son-in-law is suspected of stealing 13 billion, or the case in which viktor orbán's childhood friend, mészáros lőrinc, is now richer than the british queen, who is worth more than a euro-billionaire, a forbes billionaire. do you think it's inconsistent, do you not find it disturbing that the president of your party, the hungarian prime minister, along with his family, is directly involved in corruption? you'd rather talk about that, congressman, than about ferenc gyurcsány or klara dobrev.
madam president! an oligarchic world has been built up in east-central europe, and these oligarchs are living happily in the most unhappy region of europe. the politicians who govern these countries are now aligned with the most influential players in economic life. it is naive to think that corrupt countries are just lacking in law and not deliberately taking measures that undermine the rule of law. it is the systematic, criminal operation of corrupt governments. it is not necessary to wait for these governments to cooperate with the european authorities. where corruption is legalized, we simply cannot expect them to help. in the meantime, european citizens have to pay twice the price. one is when they pay the taxes stolen by corrupt governments, and the other is when they pay the penalty for the stolen money. as a proud european and a proud hungarian, i would like to make two proposals: to make the corrupt politicians responsible for the stolen money with their own money, and to give european subsidies directly to the farmers, the municipalities, the ngos, that is, to those for whom we originally intended these funds.
madam president, it is a little ironic that we are talking about the outcome of cop 25 when there really wasn’t one. simply agreeing to meet next year and hoping that world leaders can be more ambitious isn’t an outcome, but a failure. failure to deliver and take meaningful action, failure to listen to science and evidence, and failure to live up to the expectations of citizens, who demand a safe and sustainable future. in madrid, we witnessed once again how political greed overpowers common sense. with the majority of big emitters unwilling to take climate change seriously, the eu must become an even more prominent world leader regarding climate protection, and i am aware of the criticism we receive. commuting between two parliaments is terrible for the environment and, yes, we use way too much paper in this house but, on the global level, the european parliament is probably the most ambitious and committed institution to fight climate change. the members of this house must be the engines of change and the ambassadors of global climate action, and we need tools to do that. we need the right of initiative so we can issue our own proposals, and this step would be more impactful than the outcomes of cop 25.
madam president! we are the last generation that can do something about climate change and climate catastrophe. we have only time left to do that, and we have only time left to find solutions to the consequences of the climate catastrophe. the leaders of the union, the politicians of the union, know very well that there is no room for delay, that we must act immediately. a lot of people say, but america, india and china, well, i'm more proud to be european than that. europe will lead by example and europe will lead the way in the fight against climate change. let us not forget that we all share the responsibility for successfully meeting this challenge. the european green deal can only succeed if it works as a new social contract that everyone accepts and feels is theirs. we need to take the strength to fight from the people, from the young people, who are fighting for their future, the millions across europe, against climate change. the fight must be fought and won by political decision-makers, civil society, economic and industrial players and all european citizens.
in writing. the number of pollinating species threatened with extinction is increasing, and in many cases this is due to human activities. the decrease in the number of pollinators also leads to a decrease in agricultural yields, which results in higher raw material costs for the food industry and higher food prices for consumers. in addition to the drastic decline in wild pollinating species and individuals, the mass extinction of honeybees is a problem that is emerging year by year in europe. the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture and provides income for more than 600 000 eu citizens, but the european union is only half self-sufficient in honey and needs to import several hundred thousand tonnes a year. hungary is a honey superpower, the eu's third largest producer of honey, with some 90% of its exports going to eu markets. it is therefore important to strengthen the eu beekeeping sector and stabilise the honey market. i believe that more resources should be allocated to research into the causes of bee decline. so protecting pollinating species and protecting bees is not only environmentally beneficial, but it also has economic benefits.
madam president! i welcome the agreement reached by the leaders of the european union's member states to make europe carbon neutral by 2050. i think we need to establish some very important principles before we can move forward. the most important of these is that it is not people, but the biggest polluting corporations and the biggest polluting countries that pay the price for climate protection. the costs incurred should not be passed on to families, so the new rules should not lead to higher energy, food and fuel prices. poorer countries should not be deprived of cohesion aid, because this would only increase inequalities within the eu. it should also be taken into account that the principle of technological neutrality is essential to drastically reduce co2 emissions. finally, i would like to emphasize that hungary is not only demonstrating its commitment to climate protection with words but also with actions, as it has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 37 percent since 1990.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 19 december 2019.
the following point is inserted after point 1 of the annex to the eea agreement:
before i give you the floor, president-in-office of the council tuppurainen: this is your last speech in front of the european parliament, so i would like to grab the occasion to thank the finnish presidency, and especially you, for your efforts for our ever-stronger europe. thank you. (applause)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the february plenary session. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
i warmly welcome you and, through you, the 500 million european citizens you represent.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the russian law on 'foreign agents' (2019/2982 ((rsp)) *._______________* see minutes.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, for a long time, the russian government has been deliberately shrinking the independent media space, with few credible resources and sources remaining. now it is targeting individuals, particularly independent journalists, political opposition and activists who might have different ideas and vision for russia than those provided by the kremlin. we imposed sanctions – rightly so – against russia in reaction to its aggression in eastern ukraine and crimea. that was five years ago and no signs of improvement have been observed. on the contrary, russia is becoming even more authoritarian domestically. the ‘foreign agent’ law only proves that russia is not advancing but regressing when it comes to respect for fundamental liberties. this law affects not only russian citizens but is also a direct attack on us, europeans. the part that is ‘foreign’ in this law, and presumably damaging to russian society, is us. in addition to civil society activists, our diplomats are also being stigmatised in russia. we should not be late and should do our job on time and approve the global magnitsky act without delay.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this was a very good week for freedom of expression in the european union, and in this parliament on monday the decision was taken to establish the daphne prize to honour investigative journalism. on tuesday the whistleblower act took force in the eu, and on wednesday we honoured freedom of expression by giving the sakharov prize to a famous dissident, defender of uyghurs ilham tohti, in the name of the most famous academic and dissident, andrei sakharov from russia. but the contrast to what is happening in russia could not be more sharp, and we have to be aware that the recent decision by the russian regime to extend the law on foreign agents to individuals will seriously damage the work of independent journalists in russia. i’m particularly wanting to mention the excellent news service of radio free europe, radio liberty, who have hundreds of correspondents throughout the russian federation, and their work will now be very much more difficult. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the tightening of the rules on so-called foreign agents is another manifestation of the kremlin's attempts to isolate russian society from the outside world and information. this is a reaction by the putin regime, supported unfortunately by some european countries with billions of euros (see nord stream 2), to the growing dissatisfaction of the russian public with the government's policies and to the growing number of local protests on socio-economic and political grounds. the weakening legitimacy of power against the backdrop of economic stagnation and social problems of the population is to be compensated by the rhetoric of the besieged fortress. but there's another side to this. it is also a fact that some organizations, foundations, news agencies have excessive ambitions to democratize russia and forget that it is the russians themselves who must decide in which direction their country should develop.
my fellow members of parliament! yesterday, we stood up in this room and applauded with a loud voice our solidarity with the uighur spiritual leader who was detained by the chinese authorities. such a stand is only credible if we express solidarity in all other similar cases. and now there's this new russian law that absolutely wants to destroy practically partly free thought and partly free spirit in russia. i won't go into the analysis of this, because many people have done it here today, but i would like to point out that this system, the putin system, not only wants to build this method, these methods, at home, but also exports them, just as its legal predecessor, the soviet union, did. i regret that my own country is the first victim of this export. that's where these putin principles, the principles of this putin practice, were born. unfortunately, hungarian civil society is now in a paralyzed state, and at the same time they want to destroy the institutions that were its allies, such as the central european university. i'd like to ask you one question. do you know how much money is being spent on this? with the money that you give, that the voters behind you give. please remember that when you press the button today.
the russian agent law is not only a tool to silence russian civilians and those who want change in russia. we should not remain silent about the law, because the tools of the russian state, which operates as a mafia, do not stop at the russian border, as many have already indicated. anti-western disinformation is already threatening the european union from within. the law originally created against hostile states is now applied to civil society organizations and opposition politicians in hungary as well as russia. hungary is today vladimir putin's european laboratory. here you can see how the russian solutions work in an eu member state. for example, that's why he's installing his spy bank in hungary, which he wants to sell under the alias of the international investment bank, and that's why russian propaganda and the russian news agency producing propaganda is pouring in from the hungarian public. the european union must do everything possible to ensure the independent functioning of ngos and not allow its member states to punish and sanction legally operating civil society organisations.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.57 p.m.)
