the president is invited to speak on this important subject, and a debate is due to take place in parliament on wednesday. firstly, let me say that i welcome the work of this committee and the opportunity for parliament to scrutinise this issue. as the commissioner pointed out earlier, it is an issue that has received much attention and about which we have all received many questions and concerns from constituents. i come from ireland south, a rather rural and agricultural constituency. every day i talk to farmers about their work and pesticides, especially glyphosate, has been at the forefront of their concerns. farmers are understanding the problem but are frustrated at the same time because of lack of alternatives. let me be clear: it is crucial to safeguard the value and authority of the scientific institutions. we cannot allow science to be guided by politics. our citizens depend on stable, legal and safe rules and frameworks. we must ensure that there is trust in the system, as mr nicholson pointed out, otherwise we might as well have no approval process in place, as there would be no trust in it. the eu approval system is one of the safest in the world. however, there are ways to improve it. we must ensure that we safeguard the highest standards for the health of our eu citizens, the environment, but also ensure the survival of eu farms. this is the balance that can and must be found. it's vital that we consider the reliance our farmers have on certain products. in ireland, for example, the practice of desiccation, i.e. the application of a herbicide to a crop shortly before harvest, is vital to some of our farmers, particularly our potato farmers. we in ireland have a temperate oceanic climate. we do not have the weather conditions for drying crops in the sun, and therefore desiccation is necessary. alternatives need to be found to put new and better equipped products on the markets, and any restrictions on this in the years ahead, in the absence of viable alternatives, would be detrimental to the tillage sector. it's been done by a rapóirtéir agus and a chomhghleacaithe.
madam president, last month, this house approved a fund that will give eur 13 billion to the european defence industry, covering the entire life cycle of deadly weapons from research to their use in action. this fund, supported by members of fine gael, will subsidise the same defence industries that are fuelling wars and humanitarian crises in yemen and syria, as well as deeply oppressive state surveillance techniques by some of the most brutal regimes in the world. irish association with this fund will further breach our neutrality that has been systematically undermined by successive governments. irish neutrality, if valued and respected, actually allows our country to play a positive and constructive role in international affairs. it means our defence forces can be real peacekeepers in un missions and that we can use our own experience of enduring colonisation and occupation to advocate the resolution of conflict rather than the creation of war. being part of the aggressive eu militarisation policy actually makes us less safe, inevitably connecting us to the worst actions of the forces that are part of it. well, we want no part of it. it’s time to stand up for irish neutrality.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on reform of the eu asylum and migration policy in light of the continued humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean and africa (2019/2516(rsp)).
please, colleagues, a little bit of respect for the speaker and do not interrupt. you may have the floor at a later time (protests from the left) ... yes and i have the microphone. commissioner avramopoulos, you have the floor. this is a difficult issue so we will try and have an important and strong debate on this critical issue.
colleagues, before i open the floor for our group speakers i will not be taking blue cards in the first round. we are quite constrained on time and a number of colleagues want to take the floor at the end of this debate.
i just want to announce that because of time constraints we are not able to take a blue card, apologies to mr carver. we do want to take some catch-the-eye contributions.
indeed, madam, as you will have seen, i did step in on a number of occasions so i am trying to give balance to what is a very emotional debate. thank you for your support.
i have taken five catch-the-eye questions. i apologise to everyone else who wanted to contribute to the debate, but time has run out. i now give the floor to commissioner avramopoulos to respond to our debate. just before you speak – ms gomes, indeed you were among the first, but i do apologise – i am under strict instruction. frankly, if this were my decision – this is a really important debate – i would give it more time, but i am under pressure from what is already agreed by those who are above my pay grade.
colleagues, thank you for your cooperation during this important debate. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i welcome this report. it’s very important that we address and look at the issues surrounding the development and the advantages that are there in terms of autonomous vehicles or driverless vehicles. they’re going to be entering into the market post-2020 in a rapid fashion and then expand to utility vehicles and trucks, if we are to believe the projections. there are many issues that we need to address if we’re to bring consumers and to get consumer confidence in this area. safety and privacy of data is one of them and, of course, safety of individuals. the technical standards of vehicles and infrastructure need to be addressed. we need responsibilities of the operators to come into play. who is liable and what are the ethical questions around it? if we’re going to move forward in this area, there are lots of questions that need to be addressed, and that can only be done in this house and other national parliaments in ensuring that we do have societal acceptance of autonomous vehicles.
the president, who voted against this report, believes that this is an important subject. in particular, the fact that there is a lot of work to be done in countries like china, japan and the united states is a major reason why research and regulation on this subject is so advanced. at the same time, i just want to say that these autonomous technologies in the area of transport and logistics present a huge potential for future development, particularly in my own country, ireland, where we rely heavily on our road transport network for our country's economy and social life. the use of drones for the transport of goods and automated light rail systems for public transport are already a possibility, and entry into the european market of passenger cars with automated driving functions is imminent. therefore, we need to get ready, and we also need to do a lot more research. i look forward to that being done, especially in the next horizon programme. therefore it is a technology that is going to move us forward and we better move quickly. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i voted in favour of this report and support individual messages throughout, as well as the wider message conveyed that discrimination of any kind is not acceptable in the european parliament. if gender equality does not exist within our own institution, how can we possibly ensure gender equality in the broader society? i certainly welcome achievements made over the past two years as outlined in this report, and i believe now – before the european elections – is the perfect time to look at where we can improve into the next mandate. one of the most notable actions taken by parliament recently was to introduce a training programme specifically for meps on these issues. i personally completed the training and i found it very worthwhile. i think this training is extremely important and i would urge all colleagues to attend. it certainly brought out for me the need to ensure that gender equality is always at the forefront in all we do in the european parliament.
the president, brian hayes, fine gael, author of this report, asked the european commission to play a greater role in public administration in the member states. this is despite the fact that there are no legal differences between the eea and national public administration terms. it shows a clear study of how the commission uses the budget to achieve its objectives. the commission shall have the power to adopt acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 25 of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. however, the commission uses the eu budget to finance the countries that apply the rules and has planned to use €25 billion of it in its next budget. in ireland, we know that we have a ballot box and we're going to accept the lease from the commission. a report says that we should have policies to avoid reducing pay and social policy, but these are policies that are being put forward by fine gael and fianna fáil and the european commission. we have more power in the commission, we have more power in the parliament and there is no reason why fine gael should support these laws.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the european central bank (ecb) has never protected borrowers in distress. they say that that is the job of member states. but the central banks in many states, including ireland, have also failed utterly to protect borrowers from repossessions and violent evictions. the irish central bank now warns us that a new wave of mass repossessions is coming. the fact that the eu institutions are legislating on how to deal with non—performing loans (npls) could and should be an opportunity to put in place strong protection for borrowers. but we can already see from the commission and the council’s approach, that their only interest is to actually restore the massive profits of europe’s banks. the commission’s proposal on the secondary market for npls will have extreme and, in my view, appalling consequences on mortgage holders. if the ecb won’t protect ordinary people from debt vultures, if the national central banks won’t, if the commission and council won’t, then people will rightly ask who will. the commission’s proposal needs to be scrapped. it is up to us in the european parliament, alongside civil society, to block its progress.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, investeu is one of the flagship programmes of the new eu budget 2021-2027 and will mobilise over eur 650 billion of additional investment in the eu. we have only to look at the european fund for strategic investment (efsi) to see the potential. it enables us to get more investment for less cost to the taxpayer. over the last two years i have been holding regular public meetings on the investment plan around my constituency, in collaboration with the european investment bank and commissioner katainen and his officials, who deserve great credit. i see huge potential for investeu and i know in particular it is an instrument that business owners in my constituency – ireland south – are looking forward to and have huge appetite for. i particularly welcome the emphasis on small businesses, and this is something that we in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) committed to in our opinion, and it has been endorsed by all groups, and i am very pleased about that. this is not about big business, which has its own independent way of raising capital. this is about small businesses, in particular, that we need to help and i am pleased we are doing that. finally, i must say that this also has to be taken in the context of what is happening in westminster this evening. whatever happens, this is the perfect antidote to brexit because it will help businesses which will be affected to get the finance needed to survive.
the commissioner will be leaving the commission after the juncker plan has been replaced by the efsi, the fc1 and fc2 and now has a new name, investeu. however, what is different is that the principle of the same principle applies to investment directed towards private investment rather than public investment. there is no doubt that there is an investment that needs to go to the public sector. for example, there will be no system of transport for the people of ireland currently living in ireland. there is no need for private investors to invest in public services. do bhí reachtaíocht ann an uair dheireanach a bheadh ag cur laws an ngeilleagar sóisialta agus a bheadh ag cur airgead ar fáil do chomharchumainn; agus nílim róchinnte mar níl in the fíricí faighte agam agus aon uair a lorgaím in the fíricí seo, ní gheibhim iad. do you think that the law is a good thing? we should not be afraid of military force, we are against it. but, although there is a significant investment, and we are united in this, it depends on where the two sides of the investment are and where the public sector should be.
madam president, the mind boggles with some of the things that are being said here today. having said that, i just want to say that the vote in the house of commons last night, though disappointing, was entirely predictable. but one thing is very clear: before the vote you sensed that the unity of the eu27 is to be admired. thanks are due to michel barnier, who did a tremendous job, and to everybody involved. ireland would like to express its gratitude for that. i must take issue, though, with a comment made by arlene foster yesterday when she said ‘there is no need for the backstop, as we never had a hard border’. my goodness, try telling that to those who were killed when they were crossing the border, who were subjected to searches by british soldiers, who saw the watchtowers, who were victims of the violence and, indeed, terrorist acts. i must say that this is not helpful, and because of that violence we had the good friday agreement. and in fairness, and to give credit, to theresa may, michel barnier and the eu as a whole, they did everything in the withdrawal agreement to ensure that the good friday agreement would be observed in all its parts and that peace would continue on the island of ireland. i want to say as well, though, to my colleague martina anderson, that this is not the time to be calling for a referendum on irish unity. it’s not the irish government’s position. it’s not what the irish people want. even though we aspire to a united ireland, we know that to be calling for it at this time is divisive and that is not what we want. the big worry now for most people is that there will be no deal, that the united kingdom will crash out of the european union, and preparations are in place in case that is the outcome. but i think it’s important for the united kingdom to make a decision that that is not what it wants. i have no doubt that the good people of the united kingdom do not want that scenario, and if given the opportunity they would say so. while clarifications might be needed from brussels regarding the withdrawal agreement, the sensible thing, i think, would be to consult those who actually voted for brexit in the first place – the british people – and ask them ‘is this really what you want?’. i think they will say emphatically ‘no’.
madam president, the first thing that needs to be said – and it isn’t often i agree with mep kelly here – is to come back to what ms arlene foster said about there being no hard border in ireland ever. i’d love to know where arlene foster was when the hard border was there. maybe it wasn’t there for her, because she was so influential she didn’t get stopped, but it was there. it’s quite clear now that we need an extension to article 50. the game of chicken being played is heading for a crash. in the event that this does not happen, then the eu needs to lay out exactly how it’s going to help the irish economy, and in particular our farming communities. i heard a comment from mep gonzález pons that this is not europe’s problem. now people here will argue that it wasn’t caused by europe, and that’s a very, very strong argument. you can say that all day long, but it is our problem now. we, in the republic of ireland, are members of the european union. this is causing a massive problem for us, so to say that this is not a european problem is wrong. change that attitude! can mr barnier – who i have to say i was worried about at first, but who has done an excellent job and held his cool the whole way – say what exactly will be done for ireland in financial terms in the case of a hard brexit? (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you, first vice-president, one would perhaps like to hear people sing in the chamber, it might lighten the mood?
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i welcome the report on the globalisation adjustment fund to provide support to those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of economic or financial crises. i particularly welcome some of the provisions proposed to reduce the level of redundant workers from the original figure of 500 down to 200, and it is very important for smaller countries such as ireland – and indeed for smes – to reduce that threshold, because it has been difficult to qualify under previous provisions. the globalisation adjustment fund has been enormously successful in ireland. there have been at least 10 projects that have qualified including dell in limerick, talktalk in waterford, and andersen in limerick, as well as lufthansa. so i welcome the provision, and it is important to say that this complements national measures that are there to support workers and reintegrate them into the workforce.
i hope, like my colleague, deirdre clune, that this report will be welcomed and that we will be able to continue this work for many years to come. since its inception in 2007, €611 million has been spent and 147,000 people have been reached. the people who were displaced, who were denied their education, their training, their educational qualifications, and in some cases, who were allowed to establish themselves. i'm afraid, especially, that the people in your places will fall to the ground. therefore, it is wonderful that you believe in the resurrection of the dead.
mr president, i welcome parliament’s proposal today to strengthen the fund for the next period of funding up to 2027. the european social fund pulls together a series of funds: the youth employment initiative, the focusing on those that are most disadvantaged, the eu health programme and the european social initiative. it focuses on unemployment, improving the employability of individuals, addressing poverty issues and focusing on social exclusion with a particular emphasis on young people and on children. so the value of this fund – it is targeted directly at individuals, enabling them in developing skills for a modern economic era where we have automation, as we have spoken of already, and globalisation, and it will equip them with lifelong learning, which is becoming very important, and training. i welcome this report. i think it’s very important that we would continue to support the esf+, the european social fund plus, as it benefits citizens directly in their communities.
madam president, i don’t need a full minute because i’m speaking in the next section of this debate. but i was very interested that three meps mentioned about us dollars and eib bonds and dollars. so i think it would be a lost opportunity if president hoyer didn’t address that for us in detail with his unique perspective on the situation, both from a financial but also a political point of view. that would be very helpful to us in terms of where we should be positioning ourselves regarding that issue in the near future.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, with a few reservations it is a report i can support, so good work mr pirinski. the eib could be well described as one of the eu’s success stories and in recent years especially it is good to see it investing in a growing number of small and medium enterprises, an area which has been badly let down by the conventional banking system, not just in my own country but right across the eu. i know from speaking to constituents how difficult it is for smes to get access to finance in ireland, even for the most viable of small companies, our banks, every one of which was bailed out by the people, have abdicated the most basic responsibility for that sector, injecting finance into the real economy. of course we wouldn’t need that injection were it not for the actions of another, by far more devious eu institution, the ecb. page 96 of its 2017 report, which we debated yesterday, contains the following paragraph: ‘the reduction of ibrc-related assets by the central bank of ireland during 2017, mainly through sales of long-duration floating rate notes, is a significant step in the direction of the necessary full disposal of these assets. a more ambitious sales schedule would further mitigate the persisting serious monetary financing concerns’. i’ll translate that for you. the weaponisation of the euro by the ecb in ireland continues, with more success recorded in 2017 when the central bank of ireland destroyed another eur 4 billion. this ongoing destruction of borrowed billions is the result of a bailout of two insolvent non-systemic banks that the latter became ibrc, a bailout that we, the ecb, forced on the irish government through blackmail and threats. ireland has already destroyed eur 19 billion with plans to destroy a further eur 12 billion in coming years. all this has been achieved without a shot being fired, and without a word of protest from the irish government. once again i compliment mr pirinski on his report and complement the eib on its work. would that the ecb would take note.
madam president, we don’t see mr hoyer around these parts too often, nor should we because it’s not his place of work, but it’s good to have him here today and to listen to and to exchange discussions and views with him. also, it’s an opportunity for us to compliment the good work that the european investment bank (eib) has done in boosting investment and especially in helping to lead to growth and prosperity. over 60 years, eur 1.1 trillion in 160 countries is pretty impressive. above all, i think the role you have played in helping to get us out of the recession in the last number of years is very significant. and i think also you opened an office of the bank in dublin two years ago, with mr cormac murphy at the helm, and i want to compliment him on the good work he is doing and indeed the cooperation he and commissioner katainen have given me when i’ve held several seminars around my constituency regarding the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). these have been a huge success, as you pointed out. i am pleased that i was a rapporteur for his successor for the committee on industry, research and energy. we voted overwhelmingly today to continue on in that vein in investeu. i think that, as other speakers have said, we especially want to see more emphasis being put on supporting smes. i agree with the rapporteur when they said that we should have in particular more advisory capacities for smes so they can see the opportunities. so, overall, a good job has been done. i welcome also what you said about brexit, but i do hope that the member states will show the same generosity in filling the gap left by the united kingdom regarding our general budget.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. a uachtaráin, caithfidh mé a rá ag léamh tríd seo go bhfuil amhras orm, mar tá sé doiléir a dhóthain an rud a thuiscint ar an an chéad dul síos agus cé go bhfuil tú ag caint ar smacht reachta no riail dlí, tá tú i ndáiríre ag déanamh by ruditiciúil as agus tá sé deacair mar sin riail amháin a chur i dtreo amháin agus riail eile a chur i dtreo eile. i have no doubt that the people of the united kingdom are very interested in the idea of the european union, and i am convinced that the european union is not the only one. and i'm worried about the impact it will have on different countries; especially in rich countries, it will be a benefit to them. however, it is likely that you will be given information from certain countries that are not responsible for the sources of funds coming to the european union. we are, of course, of the opinion that the budget should be protected but, at the same time, we should not have the power to make decisions on the legal affairs of the various countries. the commission was happy to stand by, when a feachimid ar thoghcháin like the sea happened in spain when there were many in catalóine trying to vote daonlathach to wear. but i was worried about the fact that the same thing would happen to me in other countries. are you talking about trade issues: will there be an advantage for countries that are not subject to the same laws as the commission? i don't think there's much of a difference here. we did it in ireland, upstairs, when we did it in the vulture funds, when we did it in the way we have the power to do it in the country, and we did it in the way we have the power to do it in the country. but i don't think that's the right way to deal with it. there is already a european court of justice and there is so much in the way of political matters in the commission. the commission will therefore be asked to examine whether the review has been carried out in accordance with the powers conferred on it.
mr president, i too condemn the current situation in azerbaijan regarding the government’s violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of the press. the enforcement of censorship prohibiting criticism of the government is contrary to these freedoms and must be condemned. i also denounce the fact that political activists and journalists have repeatedly found themselves faced with new charges as they near the end of their prison sentences in a ploy to detain them for longer. azerbaijan’s participation in the eu’s eastern partnership and the commitments made in its membership of the council of europe are undermined by the actions of the azerbaijani authorities. i therefore call on the azerbaijani government to fulfil its international obligations and comply with the judgments of the european court of human rights in guaranteeing these rights and releasing those wrongly imprisoned, particularly mr huseynov, who has been referred to already by other speakers, and who has been on dry hunger strike since december 2018 in protest. the practice of selective criminal prosecution must be ended and the censorship rules prohibiting criticism of the government removed. there is no place for such measures in a country that has committed itself to the rule of law, democracy and the protection of human rights, and wants to have closer relations with the european union.
mr president, once again we are discussing the deteriorating situation in sudan in respect of fundamental freedoms. popular unrest in response to austerity measures has evolved into anti-government movement. the violation of the right to freedom of expression, association, and peaceful assembly through arbitrary restrictions and the use of lethal force against unarmed protesters is deplorable. i also strongly condemn the detention, in an undisclosed location, of human rights lawyer salih mahmoud osman – a strong advocate of legal reform in sudan – and call for his immediate release. other activists facing similar violations must also be released. furthermore, i call for an end to the state-endorsed persecution of christians, and this is a very important point for us in the epp, the christian democrat group. a free, independent and impartial press fuelled by open debate is a pillar of democratic society. the eu must therefore escalate its promotion of freedom of expression through its external policies, including in sudan, and continue its support of human rights advocacy by civil society organisations. in addition to this, the eu must continue to work for the protection of girls’ and women’s human rights in sudan, as highlighted by the commissioner in may 2018. i therefore demand that the sudanese authorities fulfil their international obligations and respond to our request.
ms piri, you have the support of the house and as a former journalist, i also support your calls. we will convey your message to the president.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
excellent german from the british bench there. thank you.
please show respect to the speakers. mr coburn, that was directed towards you.
colleagues, if it were in my power – but it’s not – the word ‘rubbish’ would be banned from this chamber. i wouldn’t share it with you, sir.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
thank you too. it’s nice to hear when things go smoothly, once in a while. that’s always very welcome. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 january 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by michel reimon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on competition policy (2018/2102(ini)) (a8-0474/2018).
thank you, commissioner. i will be taking catch—the—eye for this debate if there are colleagues who are interested.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 january 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by marian—jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2017 on the protection of the european union’s financial interests – fight against fraud (2018/2152(ini)) (a8—0003/2019).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 january 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on roma integration strategies (2019/2509/rsp)).
a uachtaráin, cloisim nach bhfuil comhaltaí an tí is happy to go that they should have their own language to speak; ag gabháil leithscéil. why? is álainn agus is iontach an rud is a different language to chloisteáil. ba mhór an botún is gan an áilleacht chéanna a chaomhnú agus, cosúil le bláth álainn, gan chaomhnú, gheobhaidh sí bás. it is a common saying that the white man is the same as the white woman. beatha was talking to her. i went to the air-conditioning room, to the chair. if you're going to be in jail today, you're going to be in jail tomorrow. an easy rud is the greatest today, perhaps it will be difficult for the greatest tomorrow. every focal in the nose, every abairt in the nose, every alt in the shliabh, ag dreapadh everest in the story. i'm up in the air, on the chair. i'm flying high.
mr president, it is well known that men disproportionately make up the numbers of corporate boards across the world. according to the european institute for gender equality, in 2017, women accounted for only a quarter of all board members in the largest publicly listed companies registered in the eu. in fact, in 2015, there were more ceos of fortune 500 companies named john than there were women. nothing wrong with john – my own name is seán, which is the gaelic form of john. this proposed directive is not simply about making up a gender balance on corporate boards of directors and non—executive directors; it’s about the trickle—down effect this has on the entire company and the economy. one will often find women working in the human resources or communication side of a company, while men are more often in general management as this is seen as more senior. there must be a gender—balanced model of decision making at all levels within the company concerned. if people running the company are primarily comprised of men, how can we expect the company as a whole to represent the whole spectrum of opinions and perspectives? furthermore, inadequate recruitment practices for board members contribute to perpetually hiring those with similar profiles, i.e., we as humans tend to hire who we are familiar with, so if the board is comprised primarily of men, this leads to more men being hired. this does not make sense. according to the international monetary fund, women’s economic empowerment boosts productivity, and increases economic diversification and income equality. it makes absolute sense to have more women on boards.
madam president, i am pleased to support the amendments to the rules of procedure drafted by my good friend richard corbett, despite the fact that there were secret ballots on two votes relating to amendment 20 of this report. i want to make it very clear and for it to be on the record that i voted in favour of the mandatory legislative footprint for rapporteurs, shadows and chairs, and indeed for increased transparency on the general expenditure allowance. i consistently publish any meetings i have across all my social media channels and always host visitors in public areas of parliament where i am visible by all. we must be committed to transparency and accountability across the eu and its institutions. transparency builds trust with our constituents and allows them confidently to put their faith in their representatives. furthermore, i would like to put on the record that i disagree with having these two secret ballot votes. this is not how we should operate in parliament. i am proud of the work i do on behalf of my irish constituents and want to have this known. finally, i am pleased to vote in favour of the amendment regarding mandatory anti-harassment training. having already completed a training myself, i recommend it to other meps as well.
madam president, firstly, my congratulations to our wonderful colleague frederick federley for his work on this report, which i had the pleasure of voting to support. the .eu top-level domain name is well established in a fast-flowing top-level domain (tld) market. in a digital landscape that is constantly evolving, it is crucial that the legal framework for the .eu tld is updated appropriately and that we secure flexible regulation for the future. this will assist in the promotion of eu values, including respect for users’ privacy and security, consumer protection, human rights and multilingualism. to this end, i support an assurance that all residents of eu member states and organisations established in the eu be allowed to register a .eu tld. i particularly welcome the mandatory revocation of a domain name when it has been used in bad faith, and i am also in favour of an assessment by the commission of possible cooperation between the registry and the eu intellectual property office.
madam president, i chose to abstain on this report. while there are some elements in the report that are quite positive, i feel it goes beyond the scope of a report on eu competition policy by calling for the implementation of ccctb and for the removal of the unanimity principle for votes on tax issues at the council. still, i support reports welcoming the commission efforts to ensure the effective application of competition rules across the eu, and indeed the encouraging of a structured dialogue with the commissioner for competition and the efforts of the commission to maintain close cooperation with parliament on these matters. finally, i welcome the call for the commission to increase support for smes and to protect our rights in the event of unfair commercial practices, and indeed the call on the commission to step up efforts to promote fair competition in the global market. as a member of the european parliament’s committee on international trade, i see these as crucial aspects towards a well-functioning global trading environment and for ensuring a level playing field for eu companies that operate in it.
mr president, i think this is a very important topic because, obviously, everybody dislikes and condemns fraud because it means people are getting money under false pretences and those who deserve it are being denied it. people are paying more taxes to help the fraudsters make more money. i commend commissioner vella and my colleague, mr salafranca, on the proposals here tonight to try to get more cooperation, essentially between the member states, so that we can come to terms with this terrible affliction. people have quoted massive figures in relation to how much economies are being denied. i would like to see us, especially in the next parliament and the next commission, really setting targets for the reduction of fraud and illegal activity throughout the european union because every cent that is saved could be given to people who deserve it, and obviously reduce taxes.
mr president, after the last speech i will come back to normality. the agreement that was recently reached on the multiannual plan for fish stocks in the western waters and adjacent waters is an important one. not only because it has proven difficult to find agreement on such plans in the past, but because it is a strong agreement that will help to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks in belgian, german, french, irish, spanish, portuguese and, yes, united kingdom waters. we are all aware of the challenges faced by the fishing sector in the western waters. fishers in my constituency in the southern coast of ireland face significant challenges due to the obligations of our fisheries policies targeting specific species in this region. it is difficult due to catches being mixed and this, combined with the landing obligation and inability to discard catches, makes life difficult. i am pleased, therefore, to see this agreement incorporate all relevant stocks into a single management plan, replacing the existing single species which would allow for some flexibility for fisheries. sustainable stocks are vital and that’s what we have to include. finally, i welcome the agreement on recreational fisheries. any restrictions on recreational fishing should be based on scientific evidence and objective criteria. this is a welcome inclusion in the agreement. i congratulate ‘mon ami’ mr cadec and the commissioner, mr vella.
mr president, i want to congratulate the irish nurses and midwives for their resolute action against a government that has refused to engage with their legitimate demands. after a massive demonstration of solidarity in dublin last weekend, the labour court has now intervened to provide an offer that the nurses are considering. that the dispute reached this point is a true indictment of the fianna gael government and their useless appendage in fianna fáil. nurses have been forced to take their strike action against a backdrop of a deteriorating health service. they are fighting for a better service for all of us and people across ireland know this, which is why they have such broad public support. it’s no wonder that we have a recruitment and retention crisis in nursing when their pay today is lower than it was in 2008. the irish government and eu leaders need to realise that their agenda of austerity, low pay and growing inequalities will see increasing levels of opposition among those people, including our nurses and midwives, who are at the coalface. they will though continue to have the full support and solidarity of the irish people and of sinn féin in their ongoing... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, they say that health is wealth, and that is absolutely correct, because all the wealth in the world is no use to you if you haven’t got your health. it’s very important, in a modern society with a growing economy, that we do everything to ensure that our citizens can access healthcare as easily as possible, because it’s one thing to be accessing services when you are healthy, but when you’re sick, then any added bureaucracy makes it much more difficult. that’s why the trans-european cross-border healthcare directive is so important. i think people have asked for more information especially in relation to campaigns. i think that’s vitally important in reducing red tape, because a lot of access is available, a lot of help is available, but often it’s difficult for citizens to access it, so that has to be a primary aim. my colleague mr liese spoke about the good work that has been done in combating cancer. i am involved in that group here in the european parliament, and at lunchtime i will be attending an event organised by the european advocates for epilepsy. so a lot is happening but we need to get it through to the citizens. lastly, congratulations to the rapporteur, my great friend and a wonderful mep, ivo belet.
madam president, while water itself is cyclical in its formation – it falls from the sky, flows into the sea, evaporates, vaporises and falls again – it is not an infinite resource. we have seen instances of drought from australia indeed to my own country, which is renowned as a place for a lot of rainfalls. last summer water had to be rationed, while at the same time in places like dublin up to 50% of our pipe water is leaking. this is something that is being addressed, but will take some time to address in the future. that’s why the reuse of water, where practical, is so important and i welcome the proposals here today. simona bonafè, marijana petir and angélique delahaye all referred to the circular economy and reuse of water is part of that circular economy. therefore it is absolutely important that, when we can do so, we reuse water in terms of irrigation, agriculture, urban waste etc. because it is vital for us and we have to take care of it. a good proposal which, as peter liese said, we will be delighted to back.
madam president, i am pleased to support this agreement and particularly to highlight the important opportunities it brings for the eu and côte d’ivoire to work together in a sustainable way in the exploitation of fisheries resources. sustainability is a crucial element of all fisheries policies, so i am pleased that this agreement pays due attention to that priority. the agreement marks an important step in the responsible development of côte d’ivoire’s blue economy, and i am pleased that the eu, through this partnership, will help to support this development. i also welcome the mutually beneficial nature of this partnership agreement in creating an opportunity for the exploitation of côte d’ivoire fisheries resources by fishers originating in eu member states, ensuring at the same time, and as a priority, that the resources are used in an environmentally conscious way, protecting marine ecosystems, and in the interests of all involved. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their important work in preparing for today’s vote.
the commission, once again, voted to allow the fishermen to continue fishing. oh, i'll do it that way and add a commons hall. therefore, it is without an-important mar ni can linn níos mó iasc not in heisc all that is san fharraige a thógaint amach. more than once, there will be no fish in the future, and therefore, there will be no fishermen anymore. therefore, is maith an comhréiteach seo agus fáiltím roimis. freisin, fáiltím roimh an comhráiteach atá ann, go háirithe le daoine a bhíonn ag iascaireacht mar chaitheamh aimsire. i'm glad you're here. i'm glad you're here. i'm glad you're here. i'm glad you're here. it's important to keep in mind that the tourism industry is also important to people on holiday, especially to those who are born in the summer.
madam president, i am pleased to support this report and the work that has been done by ashley fox in securing a broad majority on this important and interesting issue. artificial intelligence (ai) has huge potential to make our economies more efficient and reduce human error in various processes. but it comes with certain challenges that are well-documented. i therefore welcome this report’s emphasis on a system of transparency and accountability around the use of artificial intelligence, while aiming to ensure that the eu is at the cutting edge of technological development and eu citizens and businesses alike can make full use of its benefits. also, i would like to suggest that this report by ashley fox helps us to highlight the great work that so many united kingdom meps have done here, in this file and in many, many other files, and that should be acknowledged. but i might also say that the house of commons might benefit from some of ashley fox’s proposals in artificial intelligence, because human intelligence seems to be failing there in delivering a sensible and practical brexit. so they might look at that.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly my thanks to rapporteurs david martin and antonio lópez-istúriz white for their great work and cooperation on this issue, and also to all the shadow rapporteurs. this has been a long time in the making but, thankfully, we’re here at last debating it and hopefully voting on it tomorrow. the value of trade between singapore and the european union is, for the european union exports, eur 55 billion, and, for the exports from singapore to us, eur 44 billion. that trade is set to grow rapidly and enormously with this very good free trade agreement (fta), and i compliment commissioner malmström for her work in that regard. many areas will benefit. i know that, in ireland, the agricultural sector will benefit hugely, and that will be very important to them, as they are concerned about what might happen with our exports to the united kingdom post brexit. this shows that the european union is working for them and for us, and is planning ahead. i would also like to say that the removal of tariffs and non-tariff barriers is going to help a whole host of businesses, and the investment protection agreement (ipa), which i must mention briefly, is a wonderful, progressive proposal dealing with the problems around investor-state dispute settlement. lastly, if we can agree to a japan deal and a canadian deal we should agree by an even greater majority to the singapore deal. if we do so tomorrow evening, we can have a toast with irish whiskey to this wonderful agreement.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 february 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the oral question to the commission on the rights of intersex people, tabled by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000132/2018 – b8—0007/2019) (2018/2878(rsp)) – the oral question to the commission on the rights of intersex people, tabled by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000133/2018 – b8—0008/2019) (2018/2878(rsp)– the oral question to the commission on the future of the lgbti list of actions (2019-2023) tabled by malin björk on behalf of the gue/ngl group, tanja fajon and daniele viotti, on behalf of the s&d group, sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the alde group, roberta metsola and sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the ppe group and terry reintke, on behalf of the verts/ale group (o-000006/2019 - b8—0014/2019) (2018/2878(rsp).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, tabled by dubravka šuica, guillaume balas, urszula krupa, catherine bearder, estefanía torres martínez, martin häusling and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000122/2018 - b8-0001/2019) (2018/2775(rsp)).
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i support most of this resolution. we must create the legislative architecture to support the legalisation of medical cannabis across the european union. we need to see an end to the situation whereby people such as vera twomey and her husband paul must, in spite of getting a licence to treat their daughter’s debilitating illness, travel six times a year to the netherlands to get this medicine. they should be able to source this medicine locally, either that or the importation of this proven medicine be delivered to their house. freedom of movement of goods is meant to be one of the cornerstones of this union. let’s make the freedom of the movement of this medicine a reality. vera twomey and her husband paul have woken hundreds of thousands of people up to the fact that medicinal cannabis can help. their nine-year-old daughter is now seizure-free and the constant trips to the hospital have become a thing of the past. ava now has a future. we need this future to be made available to all who need it. this resolution will go some way to achieving that.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 february 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on human germline genome modification, tabled by miroslav mikolášik and by peter liese, on behalf of the ppe group (o—000012/2019 - b8-0011/2019) (2019/2568(rsp)); and– the oral question to the commission on human germline genome modification, tabled by miroslav mikolášik and by peter liese, on behalf of the ppe group (o—000013/2019 - b8-0012/2019) (2019/2568(rsp).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the reflection paper towards a sustainable europe by 2030 (2019/2570(rsp)).
if you’re wondering why i’m particularly strict this morning, it’s because all of us were here until ten minutes past midnight last night, as debates overran significantly, and i don’t want to see that happen today. catch-the-eye procedure
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by andrey novakov and constanze krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund plus, the cohesion fund, and the european maritime and fisheries fund and financial rules for those (com(2018)0375 – c8-0230/2018 – 2018/0196(cod)) (a8-0043/2019).
i will speak at length to allow our next speaker, mr briois, to catch his breath. shall i give you the floor now?
excuse me, mr briois. i am going to give the floor to mr balczó for one minute for you to catch your breath, so that might be helpful.
aachtaráin, mar bhall den choiste um fhorbairt régiúnach, idir 2009 agus 2014, saw me an dea-work being done back in europa ar made ag in the cistí seo, agus nuair a chuaigh ar mhisin go go places cosúil leis an ngearmáin, go háirithe berlin thoir, agus go dtí an bhreatain bheag, mar a luaigh derek vaughan, bhí mé ábalta is without the fheing ar an talamh. i was very impressed with the work that was done by the european commission in the area of regional development. it is therefore important that there should be no requirement to have a budget for such schemes, and that the budget for the member states is not guaranteed. freisin, luaigh mo chomhghleacaithe martina anderson agus james nicholson an tábhacht a bhaineann laws in this cistí, go háirithe don phróiseas síochána i dtuaisceart éireann agus fáiltím roimh an ráiteas to jean-claude juncker, agus daoine eile nach é, go leanfar ar aghaidh laws an airgead within the tionscnaimh shíochána. the commission is also working with the european parliament to ensure that the laws are implemented in the member states. it's important to be safe and to be safe.
mr president, i have approached the question of taxation as a strong supporter of both global tax justice and of tax sovereignty for national parliaments. i support member states cooperating to set eu-wide rules for tackling cross-border corporate tax avoidance and i’ve pressed the irish government to stop facilitating industrial-scale tax avoidance by some of the wealthiest companies in the world. but tax justice is not the same as tax harmonisation, and i am resolutely opposed to the proposals made by the commission to end unanimous decision-making in the council. millions of eu citizens, especially those in less powerful states, are concerned at this move towards qualified majority voting. let’s be clear about what this means. it means that a tax policy could be enforced on a country against the wishes of the democratically elected government of that state. such a move would further alienate people of the eu from the eu institutions – exactly the opposite of what’s required. what we need is to build consensus for tackling tax avoidance together.
mr president, the reason for the oral amendment is we have left two members of the cannabis family out of what should have been there. it should also include cannabis indica and cannabis ruderalis. cannabis ruderalis has very low amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol (thc) in comparison to cannabidiol, which is what some people want here and cannabis indica has a better balance of cannabidiol with thc, so if you want to do it right, include this.
mr president, firstly i listened very carefully to what the commissioner and also the rapporteur, ms rozière, said, and i must say that i agree 100%. obviously, we need to have uniform application, because without it it’s going to be costly for businesses – it can lead to greater fraud, etc. and of course the electronic system needs to be developed to ensure that happens. indeed, in the broader front, i think in the next mandate in particular, we should put huge emphasis on combating fraud in so many different ways. it should be a priority for the next commission. i agree also with what has been said about brexit, but at the same time, one hopes that we will get a deal on brexit and that it will be an orderly withdrawal, because anything else would be absolutely ridiculous. finally, i just want to say that we are now talking constantly about completing the customs union, completing the single market and completing the banking union – i look forward to the day when a commissioner can stand up here and see ‘hallelujah, we have them completed!’.
the president, i agree with the laws and the author, an feisire van orden, and i have said everything i know about this subject. gan dabht ar bith, we are looking at fhear a chuaigh ar aghaidh don toghchán agus a gheall go ndéanfadh se gach rud a chabhródh laws in daoine dá dtoghfaí is. ah then, when the toghadh is, chuaigh sé siar air a ghealltanais. but of course, people went into the store, and what did they know? i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police force, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was in the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police, i was at the police therefore, it is right that we have a debate this morning about what should happen to our women, through the commissioner, and what the authorities in zimbabwe should do about it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, equality between men and women is one of the basic pillars of the european union. but even in the european union we haven’t full equality as we often have debates here, for instance, last month in relation to getting more women on boards. also in relation to pay, there isn’t full equality, but at least we are working towards it: far different to what happens in many third countries, where, as marietje schaake said, women are treated as second-class citizens, and this is obviously not good enough, and saudi arabia is one example. while they have made some progress in relation to allowing women to drive cars – big deal – they are far from being prepared to give equality. especially, putting women’s rights defenders into jail and torturing them is just not good enough, and we have to raise our voices until we actually see equality between men and women all around the globe.
mr melo, you are being clear but this is not a point of order. can i just say, even though you have a great deal of support for that point, that it was not a point of order.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
really, colleagues, we can’t indulge in this. can i just call the house to order. we’re in the middle of voting. thank you. madam, i can hear you but i’d rather not listen at the moment because i’m trying to chair votes. (applause)
that concludes the vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on enisa, the ‘eu cybersecurity agency’, and repealing regulation (eu) 526/2013, and on information and communication technology cybersecurity certification (‘cybersecurity act’) (com(2017)0477 – c8—0310/2017 – 2017/0225(cod)) (a8—0264/2018), and– the report by julia reda, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european cybersecurity industrial, technology and research competence centre and the network of national coordination centres (com(2018)0630 – c8-0404/2018 – 2018/0328(cod)) (a8-0084/2019).
madam president, first of all, congratulations to my friend angelika niebler on her excellent work on this important piece of legislation. i think the agreement achieves what we want it to achieve, and will help protect us against cyber-attacks. a robust eu cybersecurity strategy is vital to enable us to repel any cyber-attacks against our energy supplies, aviation sector, commercial sectors or governments. hackers are now targeting sensitive sectors for criminal and terrorist purposes, and this is a real concern. thankfully, the work that has been done on this proposal, and the agreement reached will go a long way to ensuring that such concerns are addressed. we hear about data breaches, malware and online financial scams on a regular basis now, and about more and more sophisticated plots. we must be ready to defend crucial infrastructure, such as energy grids, plants and industry, against sinister attacks from criminals or terrorists. shutting down electricity grids on a large scale for a prolonged time could cause massive disruption and economic damage. i welcome the strengthened role for the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), and indeed my own country has the potential to be a cybersecurity hub for europe. ireland is world renowned as a high-tech country with a skilled workforce and it is already home to the largest, biggest tech companies. companies like vmware in cork can do an awful lot to prevent cyber-attacks. we have the expertise readily available to develop more cybersecurity services quickly and to become the global leader in securing personal and financial information online. i look forward to seeing the sector back home develop in the coming years. finally, it was my privilege to be part of a european parliament delegation to silicon valley last year, where we met all the top companies. cooperation with those companies would be very helpful as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that it is very true that the pleas of the farming community through the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) did not fall on deaf ears because we have been looking for this for some time. you, as commissioner, took it seriously and came forward with a proposal. so thank you for that. i think it is very significant. of course, it will be tested in the member states. i do welcome your comments that you will keep a close eye on implementation, because i see already in some member states a hesitancy, questioning how it will be done. it’s got to be done without too much bureaucracy, and it’s got to be effective so that those with a genuine complaint can come forward and get results. but for me today is much bigger than the sum total of those unfair trading practices that will be banned. this is about the sustainability of the food-supply chain and we hear a great deal about that – about the challenge of climate, biodiversity, air quality and water quality. i think mr de castro was very right when he said that the current system operates in a very incorrect way. it results in a race to the bottom because farmers’ margins are constantly being tightened. so i very much welcome this as a first step towards a more sustainable food-supply chain. i read comments from arla, who talk about their drive for more sustainable farming, where they say that consumers are willing to reward the most sustainable dairy farmers. i hope that is the case and that those who are dealing between consumers and farmers ensure that the farmers get a sustainable price for the work that they do. i had irish dairy representatives over last week in brussels and we spoke about issues around welfare and environment, and the challenges generally. they pleaded, because they said that the farmer is not getting rewarded sufficiently to deliver on all of those things. so tonight is a first step. thank you, commissioner. thank you to the colleagues who listened when others would not. together, i think we’ll make a difference.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the situation whereby those who do the greatest amount of work in producing the food we eat receive the least amount of the profits has been getting worse every single year. retailers and processors have been exploiting their position, while our farmers are expected to work on ever-tightening profit margins and often at a loss. many of us had hoped that the eu would step up to the mark and that we would be able to deliver legislation on unfair trading practices (utps) that would rebalance the scales, recognise the importance of our farming communities and stand up to the corporate giants. this was the opportunity to do so: unfortunately that opportunity has been wasted. i cannot support this proposal because i cannot look farmers in the eye and tell them that their situation will improve as a result of its enactment. the failure to include a ban on below-cost selling of foodstuffs is just the most glaring of the deficiencies in the proposed legislation. one-third of the utps banned can continue if supermarkets manage to insert them into contracts. i hope that i’m proved wrong, that the implementation of this legislation will prove a game changer for our family farmers. i fear, though, that it will not, and that either we will have to return to this work or we will continue to see more farmers leave the land and our rural communities suffer for want of ambition and vision at eu level.
blue-card question. – mr agnew knows i am easily provoked, so well done. don’t worry about ms tacon: she’s a strong woman and well able to deal with this legislation. you said that you’re likely to be back with your flag in this parliament and you said it almost with joy, which leaves me wondering: would you miss us if you have to go? we’re not pleading with you to stay, but maybe you have a soft spot for us after all. this is incredible news. please clarify.
mr president, i’m not a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development but obviously – coming from ireland, a very strong agricultural country – i take a great interest in this issue, and i remember during my first term in parliament, six or seven years ago, attending a number of meetings and a work group, with mairead mcguiness and anna maria corazza bildt, where this issue was discussed. i also remember that when commissioner hogan was first appointed he said this was one of the issues he was going to tackle, and many people didn’t believe him at the time, because they thought it was impossible to do so. in fairness, he has delivered, as has parliament, and therefore i think we can be happy with the results. the whole lot of the unfair practices, involving aid payments, perishable goods, non-perishable goods, contracts, ‘hello money’, etcetera, have been dealt with. one important point, though, was mentioned by my colleague jim nicholson: he said all this was great, and it is, but it must be implemented and monitored properly at member state level to ensure that the benefits are there for farmers. this is especially so at a time when they are very concerned, i know, in my own country about bad weather, falling prices and, in particular, brexit. one message that goes out clearly from this process is that if the european parliament and the commission are standing behind the farmers in relation to this issue, and can take effective action, i’m quite sure the same will apply in relation to brexit, if it does happen – although, if mr agnew’s prediction is correct, which we hope it is, then it may not happen at all, which would be a perfect solution.
mr president, 67 european initiatives have been launched. only four have met all the criteria, which includes the target of one million signatures. only two have seen the commission reply with legislative proposals: water and sanitation is a human right and stop glyphosate. out of those two, neither were considered to have reached a satisfactory outcome by the organisers of the petition. in the case of the ‘stop ttip’ petition, we can clearly see that the commission refused the initiative because it was counter to their own policy. the commission gets to be the judge and the judged. this is farcical. but having starved this horse, the commission now wants to shoot it. it now wants to make it even more difficult to reach the one million signature target by phasing out one of the options to collect them by 2022. the commission likes to talk about listening to the citizens. sadly, though, it does anything but. what it’s attempting to do here proves that.
mr president, tonight the negotiations on what may be the brexit end game are taking place in rooms below us and all around us. in any negotiations, there may be some need for what we might call constructive ambiguity, but there are red lines that cannot be crossed. in this context, i am heartened by the earlier comments from the chief parliament negotiator, mr guy verhofstadt, where he once again reiterated his pledge to stand by ireland and support the good friday agreement. however, i must say i am somewhat concerned by reports that the implementation of the backstop, which is the insurance policy guaranteeing no hardening of the border in ireland, may be outsourced to some independent body and that somewhere in that process, the uk might unilaterally walk away from the backstop. we all hope the backstop will never need to be implemented, and if it is, it will be temporary, but that can only happen by agreement. there can be no houdini-like smoke screen that would ever, ever allow unilateral action by the uk to end the backstop.
mr president, 400 000 households in ireland are in fuel poverty. deprivation levels for single-parent families have doubled over the last five years, yet we have talk of a hike in a carbon tax. a carbon tax is a false solution and a distraction. all the while corporate polluters are let off the hook and continue to extract fossil fuels. is it any wonder that companies like bp, shell and exxonmobil are fans? rapid, far—reaching and unprecedented change is what the ipcc report called for, and instead we are discussing carbon tax top—ups that punish ordinary families. instead, we should be closing the corporate tax loopholes and introducing a wealth tax to frontload the investment in sustainable alternatives and set a timeline for fossil fuel phase—out.
ms picierno, we have taken note of your comments and will pass them to the president.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ms arnautu, we will move to the vote. we are not having a debate now.
thank you for that clarification.
ms tomaševski, thank you for your point. i think there has been a great deal of advice on this issue.
i am afraid, mr coburn, i don’t have the time to explain the ‘why’ of that just now because we are in the middle of votes, but i did hear your comment.
mr lópez aguilar, your point is well supported.
that concludes the vote.
madam president, it’s nice to be first. i welcome this important partnership agreement and commend the work done by the rapporteur, mep hautala and my colleague, mr franck proust. the protection of forestry is an extremely important element in the overall protection of the environment and in slowing down climate change. the illegal timber trade has a devastating environmental effect and so i welcome this recommendation warmly as a step in the right direction for both the eu and vietnam. the preservation of habitats and biodiversity can only be accomplished by working with third countries to ensure that not only does the eu not export illegal timber, but equally does not support the trade of imported illegal timber. i am hopeful that this voluntary partnership agreement will achieve this, and i welcome the firm commitments given by vietnam to set up the necessary structures to enforce the commitments included in this agreement.
madam president, i too was pleased to vote in favour of this report, and indeed the objectives of this important programme to promote solidarity as a value and enhance the engagement of young people. the european solidarity corps programme is a valuable pathway for young people to develop their skills, whether through an internship, traineeship or volunteering experience. the changes proposed, to increase the budget for the programme, will allow many more to benefit from it. i welcome particularly the emphasis to be placed on marginalised and disadvantaged young people. four hundred and eighty irish young people have already registered to take part and i hope to see many more do so from all backgrounds, including especially those in isolated rural regions and other disadvantaged areas on which the programme aims to focus particular attention.
the president, i voted in favour of the resolution and i would like to take part in the debate which we had earlier this year. i would like to thank again our rapporteur, angelika niebler, for the work she has done on the resolution. everything is now under cyber attack in every place, some of it done by individuals, some of it by intelligence agencies, some of it, a lot of it, by countries like russia and north korea. therefore, it is important to be alert and to do everything we can to avoid this, and to avoid this. in particular, enisa has a lot of power - it could do a lot more than it does without doing so, especially when it comes to the tasks it has to do. therefore, is step ar aghaidh an t-acht seo agus molaim is.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we have before us one of the starkest examples that we’ve seen of the impact of lobbying on the council that is harming the people of the eu. the new process for compiling the anti-money laundering blacklist is far from perfect. it ignores the fact that the majority of international money laundering scandals in recent years have actually involved european banks. nevertheless, we welcome the increased autonomy in the process. the council’s objections are politically motivated interference in a process that’s supposed to be independent. i’m particularly concerned that the defence of saudi arabia and the us by eu governments is a direct result of their close financial and trading ties and of lobbying by the us and saudi arabia. we don’t just urgently need an anti-money laundering blacklist; we urgently need mechanisms to prevent the lobbying by corporations and countries from harming the public interest and to ensure that we have full transparency over the lobbying process.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, greta thunberg was blocked from addressing this parliament because she speaks truth to power, and that truth is that we are failing on climate change – failing to take the bold steps that are required, failing to lead. there are some in this chamber who are more upset that young people would strike from school than they are about the fact that we have 12 years left to sort this mess out. our paris agreement targets are already behind the science. two degrees is no longer adequate. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report has told us that we need to stay under 1.5 degrees if we want to limit climate catastrophe. rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented change is what is required. rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented is not what we are offering in this joint resolution. we might as well have a meteor heading straight for us, and we’re putting up an umbrella. it goes nowhere near far enough to setting out what we need to do. this is not about political compromise, it’s about following science, and failure tomorrow to support the amendments calling on the eu to reduce emissions by at least 55% is not only an insult to the activists who are watching us from the gallery but it is also telling them that their future is irrelevant. colleagues, it’s time to lead. (applause)
colleagues, i am conscious that this is a difficult debate and speakers want to make their points very clearly, but i am duty-bound to try and pull the time back a little because we have lengthy votes. so please, mr nicholson, do not let me down. you have one-and-a-half minutes.
thank you, jim. i’m afraid you failed the test on time!
madam president, prime minister may profoundly regrets the defeat. i, like many of you, profoundly regret that the uk seems to have lost its way. since 1973, we have had our differences with the uk, sometimes influenced by history, by different perceptions and by fake news. we must also remember that what matters is the future and we mustn’t forget – 1992: denmark; 2001 and 2008: ireland; 2005: france and the netherlands, when european citizens said no to certain eu proposals. as individual countries and a union, through listening, consultation and protocols, our citizens were able to find a way forward, to work together and, despite what mr farage said, i believe that can still happen with the uk. i also profoundly disagree with him when he speaks about snarling anger and bureaucratic intransigence. as always, he seeks to shift responsibility for a divided country onto the shoulders of others. i agree with mr michel barnier. we have been – and we need to remain – patient, supportive and respectful, while remaining true to our principles and i thank him and his team for their loyal and dedicated work. finally, i agree with mr gualtieri. an extension is just a tool to find a way forward and all options still need to be explored.
madam president, i hear the word solidarity used over and over again. solidarity can come in many forms, political, but also financial. commissioner timmermans, you talked about continuing preparation for a new deal, continuing the solid work already done. so, what are the plans in place to financially help the irish economy in the case of a no deal? i really would like an answer. solidarity up until now has not cost the european union a single cent. also, while people talk about solidarity, we have a situation in which ireland borrowed and burnt eur 3.5 billion last year on the orders of the ecb. as part of the financial help needed in the case of a no deal this obscenity must end. mr barnier, you said that we remain respectful and calm. you do indeed. people in ireland cannot control the diplomatic disaster that is the conservative party. however, when it comes to respect and calmness, i am glad that tusk and juncker are not here today: they have not remained calm and have at times put their own personal prejudice before diplomacy. you must think of this with every word that is used. remember that.
i am now going to break some bad news to people who will be very angry with me, but i have no choice. we will have to drop catch-the-eye procedure because we are exceeding our time. so apologies, but that is the case.
madam president, following the rejection of the withdrawal agreement in the house of commons last night, there is a grave sense of trepidation in ireland, especially among the farming community and the agri—food sector – because they know that a crash—out, a hard border, reverting to wto rules, will send them to the wall. they will go out of business. also, we all know that if there’s a crash—out then the hard—won peace which we’ve enjoyed for the last 20 years is also in mortal danger. therefore, i hope that today in the house of commons they will vote to avoid a ‘no deal’, a crash—out. if they do, i think that we should immediately offer an extension – and not be putting conditions on it. we should offer it. because we can do so for three months without interfering in any way with our elections. as my colleague, jim nicholson, said, this will help them to find another way – and maybe that way will be to stay. now wouldn’t that be a countenance devoutly to be wished? wouldn’t any extension be worth that? so i am appealing to the european commission to act in good faith by saying ‘yes, we’re going to help you’. we’re going to give you the time and the space to get your own house in order to avoid a hard brexit, to avoid a crash—out; if you are serious about it, then we will give you the time and the space.
mr coburn, you and i have a special relationship. i am special, and i do not know what you are, so please, don’t interrupt. and i know ms atkinson takes issue with me on occasion, but please listen with respect. you may disagree but i would urge you to listen and maybe learn.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, can i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation, which i believe has led to a balanced report. there are a few amendments submitted and i think that, with the exception of one, i can support all of them. they don’t significantly change the content or the tone of the report, but they do improve it. so, first of all, can i say how important it is for the employment committee to have its own separate report on the annual growth survey, because we have a different perspective to that of the economic committee. they are complementary, but they have a different emphasis, and this report, as well as the previous two reports from the employment committee, i believe contribute to rebalancing the importance of the social and economic issues. the economy must work for society. it must contribute to social cohesion, social inclusion and decent jobs. it must be the springboard from which individuals and families can plan their future with confidence. many of the headline figures for the eu are positive, and i want to list some of them because they are important: the eu economy continues to expand, providing a record number of jobs for people; we are making progress on the social scoreboard; household incomes continue to rise in most member states; the share of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion decreased up to 2017; and there are more women in the workforce. all of this is positive, yet there are very significant challenges that persist. for me, one of the major challenges is that household incomes have grown more slowly than gdp, from something like 10.9% to 15.5% over a period of 12 years. this clearly indicates to me that much of our growth is not fully inclusive. this is a key issue for citizens and for the eu as a whole and i believe it will play a role in ensuring the cohesion, and therefore the future, of the eu. youth unemployment averages at 18.6% across the eu, which is unacceptably high. while the youth guarantee has certainly helped, the issue as regards resources is that it is woefully underfunded. precarious work is a huge challenge, given that workers are unable to enforce their rights, with no social security and work in security as a major issue. that’s one of the reasons why i will be supporting the amendment calling for the banning of zero hour contracts. we have challenges around increasing life expectancy, with 80% of the care in the eu being provided by informal family carers, 75% of whom are women. yes, we have our directive on work-life balance, but unfortunately on the aspect of carers’ leave, that part of the directive is weak and allows member states to choose not to make a real choice for carers. we have stated clearly in the resolution that the eu’s social goals and commitments are just as important as its economic goals and are not just a means of guaranteeing economic growth, but must be a specific target in themselves. this perspective underpins our approach to all the proposals in this report on the annual growth survey. this report sends a strong message to citizens that we in the parliament recognise the essential need to ensure that our citizens can look to the future with confidence. and once again, thank you to all who have contributed to this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, as we know, the ags is published each year. therefore it is really important that the country specific recommendations are sustained from one year to the next. so we ask the commission for follow—up on that. i was also encouraged by the words of commissioner thyssen, who replied directly to some of the suggestions in my report, especially on the issue of in—work poverty and the regulation of new forms of work. a few colleagues spoke on the issue of pensions. while we fully support universal access to adequate retirement and old age pensions, we also believe that other avenues need to be explored. one of those is to complement statutory pensions with supplementary pensions. three final points. in light of today’s debate on climate change, and indeed the huge challenge we face on the issue, we have called for budgets to be made available to modernise and decarbonise industry, transport and energy. in the context of social inclusion, we call on the commission and member states to step up efforts for greater inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace. finally, we deplore the failure to include housing and homelessness among the top priorities for 2019, and call on the commission to use this semester to monitor and support progress on housing affordability and homelessness as fundamental areas of concern. (applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, none of the arguments in favour of the commission’s package on non-performing loans stand up to scrutiny. its supporters say that it will contribute to financial stability, but how does moving billions of euros of bad debt into the unregulated shadow banking sector achieve this? its supporters argue that it will free up banks to lend to small businesses, but all of the evidence shows that it’s the lack of demand in the economy and not credit supply that is limiting lending. its supporters say that we can achieve strengthened consumer protection in the directive, but in reality the package will encourage the banks to throw their customers to the wolves through the mass sell-offs of mortgages on family homes to vulture funds. this is exactly what’s happening in ireland right now, and it has fuelled a housing and homelessness crisis on an unprecedented scale. supporters of this proposal actually cite the irish example with bad debt as a model to be replicated across the eu when, in reality, it is an example of exactly what not to do. the truth is that this package is about returning banks to the situation where they can make massive profits again without any regard to the rights of borrowers who, let’s not forget, are european citizens. we cannot support this package as it won’t solve the problem of bad debt in the eu’s financial system. it will just move it into the shadows while throwing families who find themselves in distress to the vultures.
the president, however, agreed that the new chains we had then were really not the same mechanism that is at our heart, but it is just as bad as you would call a stability mechanism without emf, it is a similar thing there. i really don't understand why you're so worried about that, but i'm not sure that's the case. but when we look at ireland and especially, like the other countries like us in greece, we are still paying the bailout money that we have been paying for several years now and we will be paying it until 2040. it is very difficult for us to be patient when it comes to our financial situation, especially when we are in a situation where many people in ireland are not able to get a loan from the bank, and it is very difficult for us to get a loan from the bank to get a loan, and it is very difficult for many people in ireland to get a loan from the bank to get a loan. mar sin, canathaobh a bheimis dóchasach go n-oibreodh meicníocht sea within? i must be tread-hearch and i must be count-sack good. and one thing that's going to make me cry is about the bathroom, but especially the dance, because they're not going to be able to do that. and again, we're talking about the cannibals being fabhrach and dtaobh meicniocht as well as chur chun cinn. i'm not going to be able to go to ireland. i know what the laws are, but i'm not the same, i don't know what the laws are.
mr president, i welcome the work towards the establishment of the european monetary fund in order to ensure greater responsibility for the development and monitoring of financial assistance programmes for member states. a european monetary fund should have greater responsibility for the development and monitoring of financial assistance programmes, however, it would be important that decision-making remains firmly in the hands of the member states. the next eu budget can help to foster sustainable growth, put in place more effective reforms and help us to build a better society that improves all our citizens’ lives. i think the future of the economic and monetary union should look to strengthen financial stability and regain public trust. priority should be given to the completion of the banking union and strengthening the european stability mechanism (esm). additionally, focus must be put on the development of the capital markets union, which has huge potential to provide for a new mechanism for financing our businesses and can be complementary to the eu investment plan. i welcome a number of provisions in this draft report, including that participation in this initiative should be possible for all member states and not just for the eurozone. additionally, i welcome the calls for the esm to have sufficient expertise and for the governance framework to be assessed to ensure an effective decision-making procedure. i welcome the initiative parliament is taking in putting forward its position on this issue, given the relatively slow process in council and again, not for the first time, parliament is showing initiative in the interests of citizens.
mr president, as meps, we probably fly more often than most people in society and obviously we have a huge interest in air transport. it is important that it should be competitive, both for us and for everybody. it was through the work of the european union that the emergence of many of the low-fare airlines came about. ryanair is an airline that i fly with regularly. years ago, when there was no ryanair, flights were costing hundreds and hundreds of euro. then the fares came down dramatically: all the others, including aer lingus, our own passenger airline in ireland, are now competitive. the point being made here is that they must be competitive on a global level as well. especially, i think we must look to eliminate any bad practices in third countries, and i agree completely with the commission on trying to do that.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my thanks and congratulations to ms monika hohlmeier, my colleague, and also to commissioner oettinger, who is doing such good work on this portfolio, as he did on the previous portfolio on energy. i remember that well. it’s good to have good people leading us and they should be given credit. it will be important that the 2020 budget sets out the right direction for the next multiannual financial framework (mff). for this reason, we must ensure that it sets out the key priorities we wish to achieve over the next decade. the budget must be strong, it must be well financed and it must be forward looking, as the commissioner mentioned. i welcome the rapporteur’s focus on innovation and research, an area i have been very much involved in in my time in the european parliament. this is paramount to the eu’s continued growth, job creation in the 27 member states and indeed the enhancement of our global competitiveness. i welcome the importance the rapporteur has given to successful programmes, such as horizon 2020, competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) and digital investments. secondly, i welcome the prominence given to the climate challenge. we have a big challenge ahead to ensure that 2030 targets are met – we discussed those this morning in the presence of commissioner cañete – and that we implement the measures needed to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of climate action. indeed, it has shown great leadership again during this commission, starting with the paris agreement a few years ago. without sufficient funding for these actions, we will not achieve anything. through the very successful programmes and instruments, the eu budget can help to mobilise the actions needed. this has been successful in recent years, with european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for instance, alone having delivered 35 750 gigawatt hours of additional electricity, 90% of which is renewable. additionally, it has ensured 5 000 gigawatt hours of energy savings per year. its successor, which i’m involved in, will also help to make that a reality into the future. investeu is a big programme and it will build on efsi and, indeed, we are actually in trilogues on that at the minute. these results show the value of an ambitious, strong and adequately funded eu budget. i hope that we can continue this into 2020 and set the agenda for the finalisation of discussions towards the new multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-2027. finally, i concur with the commissioner in his reference to brexit. it is extraordinary that only by 308 votes to 302 they decided not to crash out of the european union. there will probably be a big deficit in our budget and i hope that the other member states will see the sense of filling that gap so that, collectively, we can do the things we really want to do and can do better collectively, rather than on an individual basis. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
question for the commission: sheáin, is dócha go gcuirim fáilte go bhfuil tú ag léiriú an oiread sin spéise, go háirithe i gcúrsaí aeráid, ach dá mbeadh aon eolas agat i ndáiríre ar chúrsaí buiséid, thuigfeá nach bhfuil ach méid an-bheag curtha i dtaisce i gcomhair cúrsaí aeráid ach ní leor is. sheáin, is dócha go gcuirim fáilte go bhfuil tú ag léiriú an oiread sin spéise, go háirithe i gcúrsaí aeráid, but dá mbeadh aon eolas agat i ndáiríre ar chúrsaí buiséid, thuigfeá nach bhfuil ach méid an-bheag curtha i dtaisce i gcomhair cúrsaí aeráid ach ní leor is. sheáin, is dócha go gcuirim fáilte go bhfuil tú ag léiriú an oiread sin spéise, go háirithe i gcúrsaí aeráid, but dá mbeadh aon eolas agat i ndáiríre ar chúrsaí buiséid, thuigfeá nach bhfuil ach méid an-bheag curtha i dtaisce i gcomhair cúrsaí aeráid ach ní leor is. but the question i really have is, why did the group's leader refuse to allow young people to come into the meeting to talk about climate? and why do they go to the august group of the party of their choice and vote for the money that they should spend on the trust fund instead of talking about the other side of the coin, how can they do better than that? i'm not going to be able to do it. but perhaps it's time to explain to us what we think about sin.
blue-card answer. – probably, being truthful, it’s political point scoring, but we can handle that fairly well. i can say that my group here in the european parliament, i’ve been involved in climate change, i represented parliament in the climate agreement in paris. i was involved in the renewable energy file as rapporteur, so my credentials in climate change are better than anyone’s probably, certainly from the speaker’s point of view. and secondly, i just want to say that my party as well in government, right now, under our new minister, is actually at the minute preparing our climate and energy plans, which are going to be very ambitious, and also the 2040 targets have put in at least 25% for climate action. so both fine gael, my party, our government in ireland and the epp group here in parliament are leading the change in a very practical way for climate change.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, first of all, would like to go to the commissioner oettinger's office to hear what he has to say, but it is important to listen to what he has to say rather than to be in the room talking to other people. it's a shame you haven't listened to us the first time you've been in our presence, but we've never listened to you before. and yet, even though i don't know much about it, i'm willing to talk to other people about it. it's a huge pain in the neck, especially for breatimeacht. i am very pleased with the work carried out by monika hohlmeier and her team and with my willingness to support the work of the european commission and interreg. and we are looking forward to going to the leagues and getting support, but especially the breatimeacht, is a big challenge for us. i mean, there's nothing really said about the weather, it's already been said, but there's a lot of money - and there's a lot of money being peddled for military purposes. i'm not sure you're ready to take the law without it. oh, again, i'm afraid i'm going to have to ask you to choose between those two. with good laws, there are no hunters - there's a huge problem with them, there's a problem with farmers. and when we were talking about the plans that were being made by the commissioner for the breatimeacht - the contingency plans that were - there was no such thing as a really big deal, no such thing as a solution, no such thing as a parachute. it was all dependent on the one who united in the sasanaigh linn, rud that ag teacht chun cinn anois nach bhfuilid ag united le haon rud agus go mbeimid i gcruachás ollmhór. but i don't know exactly what the practical things are that we have to do to choose a budget for the european union to follow the laws in the world that we have because of brexit. we are more than just a bunch of kangaroos. all sessions will be held on the same terms as in 2019, except for 2020. i'll do it then, because my love is imitating you and you're going to have to start listening to me. thank you.
madam president, the 2030 agenda is based on the union’s core values of democracy, participation, good governance, social justice, solidarity, sustainability and respect for the rule of law and human rights within the eu, its member states, and around the globe. the 2030 agenda is vital to achieving greater wellbeing for all and a fair world, leaving no one behind. the four essential pillars of sustainable development – social, environmental, economic and governance – must be put into practice. the fair transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy that is inclusive for all is an essential part of this. i strongly welcome this report’s call on the commission to draw up an ambitious strategy for the implementation of the 2030 agenda and i think it’s important to emphasise the importance of sustainable food production. finally, i want to say that every member state should commit to giving 0.7% to development aid as we’ve asked. i’m delighted that my taoiseach, leo varadkar, has indicated that ireland is going to do so.
mr president, this resolution is about the troublesome situation regarding human rights, democracy and the rule of law in kazakhstan. the new criminal code has tightened the criminal laws being used to prosecute journalists, activists and opposition politicians. freedom of expression is being restricted, with many receiving long—term prison sentences and being subjected to torture, ill treatment and psychological pressure in the detention facilities. the use of social networks is controlled and restricted by the authorities and social network users are being sentenced to imprisonment, while religious beliefs are being used by authorities as a pretext for arbitrary detention. therefore, i call on kazakhstan to amend its legislation, in particular, the articles on criminal liability from the criminal code, which are overtly political in nature and i would recommend kazakhstan apply the standards of the council of europe in its legal system.
mr president, guatemala was making progress in prosecuting human rights and corruption cases due in significant part to the collaboration of the attorney general’s office with the united nations-backed international commission against impunity in guatemala (cicig). however, that collaboration is now suspended, further to the decision of president jimmy morales not to renew the mandate of cicig at the expiration in september 2019, and the prohibition on cicig commissioner velásquez from re-entering the country. i want to highlight the progress that has been made in the fight against impunity in guatemala, thanks to the efforts of cicig. i now ask president morales to reconsider his decision to deny a visa to lead prosecutor iván velásquez. guatemala’s gang-related violence is a primary factor prompting people to leave the country. guatemala suffers from high levels of impunity, partly because criminal proceedings against powerful actors often suffer unreasonably long delays, and intimidation against judges and prosecutors and corruption within the justice system continues to be a problem.
mr president, in line with rule 59(3), i’d like to request that the house proceed to vote on the amendments. unfortunately, the ppe and s&d groups have colluded in the negotiations to prevent other political groups from having a meaningful say in this package, which will hurt borrowers and give a free rein to vultures. so we are asking that a vote be taken by roll call to allow our amendments to protect european homeowners from evictions.
i think i'm going to ask you a question. i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer to the question, and i would like to thank the committee for its response to the research and studies carried out over the last five years. and it probably had to do with my colleague éireannach thíos ansin, an expert on kilgallen, laws and research. they're always there, year after year, and they're always there. therefore, it is in the firm's interest to do this every year and to have this kind of project in place, as the commissioner has said. therefore, caithfimid to be an-chúramach go mbeidh an caighdeán is airde in sna feirmeacha sin. nil an dara rogha againn, agus freisin, mar a dúirt an coimisinéir, cúramach freisin nuair a bhíonn siad ag taisteal not to niompar the fheirmeacha go monarchana, agus go háirithe agus iad to gcur chun báis, go ndéanfar is gan fulaingt rómhór orthu. (we are not going to give them a choice, but we are going to give them a choice.)
mr president, i think this is a very important topic and i’m delighted to see it being highlighted here today. as people become more and more sophisticated and well-off across europe, are they becoming more tolerant? it’s a good question. it’s not easy to answer it. there’s plenty of evidence to suggest that that’s not the case, and therefore it’s fundamental that the european parliament would be aware of these issues to try and get fairness and equality across europe for everybody, and particularly for people of african descent. they should have the same opportunity to get employment. they shouldn’t be subjected to hate speech or hate crime, and that should apply in every walk of life. i’ve seen in recent times, especially in sports, where even people of african descent and others, are abused simply because of their race. we have to stop this and i think the european parliament and the european institutions can play a leading role because in this day and age we have to have equality for everybody, male and female, african and non-african alike. that is what we have to aspire to in the next parliament.
mr president, the right of national parliaments to defend their country’s taxation systems and decide on their country’s taxation systems must be protected. tax sovereignty should not be up for negotiation. but the obligation on national governments to combat corporate tax avoidance and provide for maximum tax transparency should also not be shirked. this report shows that parliament is listening to the concerns of citizens regarding corporate messing on their tax obligations, but the question remains as to whether governments are listening? during the tax3 mandate we learned that, with the help of the irish government, apple has created a new structure that has allowed it to avoid paying eur 2.5 billion to the irish revenue annually since 2015. apple has done this by using a 100% capital allowance for intangible assets, as well as other means. it appears that apple is breaking irish tax law but that it has not been challenged for doing so by the irish government. we believe that this amounts to selective treatment and we ask the commission to examine whether this is illegal state aid. if we don’t tackle the issue of massive tax avoidance by huge corporations then we are damaging … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, it was said in this debate already that we are a community of law and the law of the treaties is clear in respect of the requirement of unanimity when it comes to taxation matters. that’s deliberately put into the treaties to ensure that smaller member states are not disadvantaged as a consequence of bigger member states who have bigger domestic populations and a bigger capacity to get tax in. on the second point, i reject the idea that no progress has been made. we have made progress on the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) base erosion and profit shifting process (beps). we’ve made progress on country-by-country reporting. we’ve made progress when it comes to clear obligations of tax authorities. we’ve made progress on the fourth eu anti-money laundering directive (amld 4) but the truth of the matter is, there is no majority, sufficient unanimous majority, in the council for a financial transaction tax, for a digital tax, or for a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). that is the reality that we face. i think another tactic has to be employed – a new tactic by the commission where they would benchmark the best practices that are available through the country-specific recommendations, that they would benchmark the best practices and measure those practices and do it in an annual report. that’s the way to make progress. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, all during my life i never saw much sense in this biannual clock change and i was delighted when came here to the european parliament to be part of a working group that set out to end it, and of course as we progressed over the last five or six years, we got all the evidence from research which show that from a health point of view, animal welfare, energy, that the biannual clock change has outlived its usefulness. so i was very pleased when commission president juncker suggested that it would end this year, he wanted 2019 based on the consultation which the commission had undertaken, which showed that 84% wanted it ended, and that was the biggest response ever, 4.6 million people responded. that must be a fair indication of the way people feel about it across the european union. i agree completely with colleagues, so it will work effectively and to avoid the situation that jim nicholson mentioned, there should be a coordination mechanism so the member states can sit down and look at it and agree on what way they will go forward. end biannual clock change and then have either summer or wintertime forever more — makes sense.
mr president, having been involved in the whole climate area all during this mandate, i’m very pleased with the progress it has made. i think that great credit is due to commissioner arias cañete, mr ristori and many others, who firstly ensured that the paris agreement got over the line and now, too, the clean energy package has put in place all the necessary legislation to deliver it. i think we can be very proud of that. secondly, connectivity is absolutely vital in this whole area, especially if we want to make greater use of renewables. the sun doesn’t always shine and the wind doesn’t always blow; if it blows in one area, it doesn’t blow in another. so to maximise it, connectivity is absolutely important. the internal market for electricity will help to bring that about. indeed, there is a group in ireland with former president of parliament, pat cox, and people like eddie o’connor, who recently developed what they call the super node across europe. that would deliver the connectivity that would be necessary to make maximum use of a renewable source.
the next item is the debate on the report by axel voss, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on copyright in the digital single market (com(2016)0593 – c8—0383/2016 – 2016/0280(cod)) (a8—0245/2018). before i give the floor to the rapporteur, and as this debate is quite a significant one, i would urge colleagues to please adhere to their time so that we can give some catch—the—eye moments to colleagues who are not listed in the debate.
thank you madam. i’m really sorry, but i did warn, so apologies for interrupting you. there is a blue-card request from mr rohde, but mr rohde you have speaking time so perhaps you could address it in your speaking time. i’ll reserve blue cards for those who are not involved in the debate.
sorry, mr rohde, you want to make a point.
i agree. i’d love everyone to have speaking time. i’m conscious that people have been in the chamber who are not on the list and want to speak. you are on the list. i have to make a judgement call and i try and prioritise catch—the-eye. if you want this debate to go on longer and have an exchange, i am open to that but i will have a problem with the services. so i hope you can understand the reason for that decision. i hope you can make your point when i give you the floor, and i do take note.
mr rohde, did you indicate a point of order? can i try and solve this by the following? you have one minute’s speaking time coming up in a moment. do you want to use that now for a question? (interjection from mr rohde off micro) i can hear you, but i’m not sure everyone else can because your microphone is not on. i’m trying to make sure that the people who’ve come into this chamber early to be in catch—the—eye get that moment. because you are insisting, mr rohde, and it’s disrupting the debate, i would ask ms reda whether she will take a short question from you now. i hope you will respect my decision from here on in.
thank you, sir. you answered one question and there were two, but i don’t have the time to give you to continue.
the president, as a member of the working group on this subject for the last five or six years, initially under helmut weil, and more recently, as chairman, was attended by pavel svoboda, who took the floor of the parliament on the following day: 410 in bhfabhar, 192 in choinne. therefore, we are now able to use the laws proposed and thus end up spending two hours every year in the european union. 2021 is the year when the united states will be able to watch the air and work. which do you prefer - am i a tsamhraidh or am i a gheimhridh? i myself, is prefer liom am an tsamhraidh. is dóigh liom, cosúil leis an uasal hannan, gur fearr le muintir na breataine agus muintir na héireann am an tsamhraidh chomh maith. i think that the people of ireland are very much in favour of the idea of a national holiday. therefore, we have been consulted on this matter at least. it is maith sin.
mr president, i support the proposals put forward relating to the internal market for electricity, particularly the efforts to phase out subsidies for coal—fired power plants. while this is indeed something that would be a challenge for my own country, ireland, we must drive forward the energy transition, and restricting state aid available to power plants provides a twofold benefit by divesting investment from fossil fuels and making this investment available to renewable energy. after the passing of the fossil fuel divestment act in ireland in december 2018 it is encouraging to see the european union taking a similar approach to the question of fossil fuels. having helped to deliver the 32% renewable energy target last year as a rapporteur for this file, i am certain that investment in renewable energy is investment in a cleaner future and a step in the right direction. i warmly welcome this legislation as it will make the market more suitable for renewables and allow us to meet our important, if challenging, targets.
mr president, today was a good day when the european parliament upheld the rights of creators, performers, artists, journalists and others in the creative sector to fair renumeration for their work. we did this by making their works copyrighted when their work is being used for profit by digital platforms. this is a victory for the individual where the tech platforms will no longer be able to amass vast fortunes on the backs of artists and others whose works, whose performance and whose creativity has been consistently exploited. today, this parliament refused to be swayed by the well—resourced campaigns of those who want to maintain their dominant position. finally, one of the principals on which we must continue to build the european union is the principle of decent pay for workers and their labour. i believe we have upheld that principle today in this parliament for the creative sector.
mr president, the easiest thing to do today would have been either to abstain or pretend you weren’t here at all and not to vote, as some have done. that’s not my style; i always vote and i voted in favour of this important, if controversial, proposal. while i understand the concerns that have been raised, we must ensure that legislation evolves with technological developments if we want to ensure a well-functioning digital single market. i support the protection of rights holders from copyright infringement. content creators, journalists and cultural actors must be fairly remunerated for the work they produce and a better balance needs to be struck between their rights and those of digital economic actors. the proposed directive narrows the value gap, so that those who generate value also receive a fair share of it, instead of it going into the pockets of big tech companies only. the digital single market is not only an economic forum but a cultural one also, and i support measures aimed at protecting and supporting cultural output. no actor’s or journalist’s work should be exploited without fair remuneration. this is a directive that can be improved on when it comes to implementation at member state level.
mr president, above all else in the committee on budgetary control, i see it as our duty to act as the final watchdog in the budget of the commission, both its income and more especially its expenditure. this particular report every year is the summary of that work, and i’m happy to say that – while i will as usual be voting against granting discharge for the year in question, 2017 – i will be voting in favour of this report. this report is the result of the combined work of all the groups on this committee, and especially the work of ms ayala sender and her staff, who presented the initial draft and was fair to all in her approach to amendments and compromise amendments. it’s not all brightness and light, however. the european court of auditors also has a major duty to the people and the member states of the european union – a duty to ensure that their scrutiny of the commission’s books is thorough, honest and transparent. for 2017, it wasn’t. it was a fudge, with many holes, the most glaring of which was the omission of the error rate correction figure. i don’t have time in 90 seconds to go into detail, but suffice to say their failure needs to be exposed, and it is.
mr president, civil society applauded us for adopting an ambitious report last october, and for taking a strong stance and sending a clear message to car industries that they must also keep up to speed on climate ambition and demands. however, what is disappointingly clear from the final agreement between the council and parliament is that the council and eu ministers are happy to water down bold environmental legislation that aims to tackle one of the eu’s biggest polluting sources. co2 emissions from transport are increasing and efforts to improve the fuel efficiency of new cars are slowing so we must demand a lot more from the sector. we need to stop striking political compromises where the science sets us the limits. fulfilling the paris agreement obligations is not only parliament’s duty, but it’s also the council’s duty and they cannot ignore their part in this.
mr nicholson, how thoughtless of me not to respect you as one of the senior members of this house. can i say on my own behalf – and i hope on behalf of most in the chamber – that i will miss you if you go, but ‘if’ is the word i underline. (applause)
madam president, my summary of brexit is as follows: ‘brexit, oh brexit, is driving us mad, everything about it is awfully bad. backwards and forwards it boringly grinds, as may tries valiantly for a meeting of minds.’ hopefully that meeting of minds can be achieved this week in the house of commons. above all, in doing so, they may take cognisance of the one million people who marched in london last weekend. there’s a big difference between marching and signing a petition and that should be noted. above all, we hope that the house of commons can take a decisive decision to avoid a crash—out at all costs. we don’t want a no—deal scenario. if that could be avoided, then we could live with anything else, be it a withdrawal agreement, an extension, or whatever. but if they do not come to that decision, the confusion will remain and everybody will continue to be worried. then it will be, to borrow the words of oliver goldsmith: ‘and still they gazed and still the wonder grew’ … how the swashbuckling brexiteers just hadn’t a clue.
the house supports you.
thank you, mr ashworth. my decision was the right one to allow you to speak. i think we are all heeding your warning, because i think you said it with deep emotion and affection for your country. catch-the-eye procedure
blue-card question. – i would like to ask if mr liese is really happy that he and others successfully removed the very onerous task of marking a packet of balloons – not the balloons themselves, but the packaging of the balloons – asking people to dispose of them responsibly. we know that balloons are in the top 10 list of items found, and now – thanks to mr liese and his colleagues – children are spared the horror of such a labelling requirement and instead will continue to witness the horror of poisoned wildlife.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, today we will approve the single-use plastics directive, one of the highest profile pieces of legislation in the eu, and we have a good outcome thanks to the rapporteur, despite the council dragging down the ambition. but i would caution and say hold off from popping the champagne corks just yet, because the truth is that the linear plastics economy will be continuing business as usual. we have some very positive measures in this directive, but we should all acknowledge that we are still just scratching the surface here. banning cotton buds and plastic plates is a good move, but where is the systemic change that we need to achieve? how do we stop the 13 million tonnes of plastic from entering the ocean every year? the plastic spoon, we know, is thanks to the fracking boom and the fossil-fuel industry’s desperate attempts to secure its future. so plastic will remain cheap and ubiquitous, unless we take on the fossil-fuel industry and strongly regulate the plastic manufacturers. we need to stop talking about the circular economy in just fancy words, and we really need to think about how we put this principle into action. so what’s great is that this directive has raised awareness about plastics, but we absolutely need to hit home that the answer to the plastics crisis is not about individuals rejecting straws or even campaigning for a straw ban – it’s about radically changing our production lines.
madam president, this is an area that the european union should really concentrate on. this is an area where countries cannot do it on their own. i hear this phrase ‘throw it away’, and it’s a phrase that has to be tackled. when we say ‘throw it away’, in many cases we think ‘it’s in the bin, it’s brought away by the rubbish truck and then it’s gone away’. the reality is that it has not gone away, and we’ve got to look at absolutely every item we use and ask ourselves the question: when i throw it away, where does it end up? but we shouldn’t just have to ask that question. the companies who produce this stuff should also have to ask that question, and they should be forced to ask the question. i hear a lot of praise for young people and the work that they’re doing. we should also praise our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers, who knew about recycling and knew about the environment before the words were invented, because they lived it. we’ve got to copy them.
madam president, having been involved in discussions on this topic for the fisheries committee for some time, i’m very pleased that we have this debate with a resolution here this afternoon. of course, the fisheries committee are central to what is going on in the plastics world, because an awful lot of plastic – as has been said – finishes up in the seas, finishes up in the bellies of fish, killing them and polluting. we also have the phenomenon of ghost fishing, caused by fishing gear lost at sea. so all these things need to be tackled, and i’m delighted that we’re particularly honing in on things we can do pretty quickly – getting rid of single—use plastics that can be replaced with some other product. i think that’s a very sensible way to go about it. over a period of time we will be sending a signal to the industry that plastics pollution has to end, and that a lot of plastics being used are either to be collected and reused or whatever. definitely we have to do everything we can to bring about an end to plastics pollution of the environment as soon as we can.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 28 march 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by michel dantin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the quality of water intended for human consumption (com(2017)0753 – c8—0019/2018 – 2017/0332(cod)) (a8—0288/2018).
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, those of us who have worked with the right to water movement for years are disappointed that the commission chose this vehicle to address the human right to water. because either we enshrine a human right to water or we fail to uphold it. there is no halfway house when it comes to human rights. so why is it that the human right to water is so special that it deserves this mediocre outcome? we are supposed to be the direct representatives of the people of europe and yet we are doing a complete injustice to the right to water petition, which received nearly two million signatures, and also an injustice to the 2015 parliament position. we in the left cannot endorse this report. to do so would be to accept the outcome of lenient, à la carte obligations as a response to a europe-wide petition that sought to effect systemic change. the petition looked to address the serious problem of water poverty, which affects two million people in the eu. the demand that universal access to water would also include affordability. that demanded an end to the eu’s water liberalisation agenda and this is the response that we give the citizens: arguments of cost-effectiveness or what have. this is a clear dismissal of socio-economic rights. what we have is not good enough, and the right to water movements across the eu share that view. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, we accept that the way member states manage their water infrastructure is a competence for the member states, and in fact in ireland we have huge issues with the commission interfering in how the irish actually manage their water system, because in ireland we have zero water poverty. and do you know why we have zero water poverty? because we pay for our water through general taxation instead of punitively punishing citizens who can’t afford to pay their water taxes. so no, we don’t want it to go out to public tender. we don’t want liberalisation of water infrastructure.
mr president, even george orwell would have been surprised at the way this organisation has been named. you’ve allocated eur 10.5 billion over six years. it sounds very interesting, but this fund has the potential to supply arms to african countries with histories of political unrest and human rights abuses, as well as supporting these countries with military and technical assistance. i strongly reject this proposed facility based on this fact. if it is to go ahead, maybe you should have a name change. more appropriately, call it the european arms facilitation agencies. some of the countries singled out by federica mogherini that may avail themselves of this fund are mali and somalia. look at what happened this week in mali with the government—backed militia. look at the fact that we joined – ireland – this union to work together with european nations, but to preserve our neutrality. we in ireland are not preserving our neutrality if we back projects like this. this was meant to be a peace project. it’s not now, is it?
mr president, erasmus+ is well named because it’s a plus-plus or win-win for students and the european union. in my home constituency, our great university, university college cork, places students on erasmus here in the university of strasbourg every year, and every year over the last ten years, some of them come in to me on internships. they make a massive contribution. i have two at the minute – nina and alana. it’s wonderful for them, it’s wonderful for me and it’s wonderful for their education, especially learning language skills. i hope to continue doing that into the future if i’m re-elected. it’s also very important that we look at expanding erasmus, as has been said, and especially for those from disadvantaged backgrounds. that’s a real challenge for us, and it’s something we should really put every effort into. we should also be looking at a wider range of universities: technological universities, which are now coming onstream in my home country. they should definitely be more involved. of course, as a sportsman myself, i think there are huge opportunities to expand it into sport, which would lead to best practice and indeed promote everything that’s good about european union and sport.
mr president, this report gives us an opportunity to define what is sustainable economic activity and what is not, and to consider the interaction between environmental goals and social protections. the attempts that we’ve heard here today by the right-wing groups in this house to limit the scope of this proposal and to limit its effect in shifting finance away from fossil fuels is shameful. the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s report of last october was the starkest message yet of the impending climate catastrophe. the scientific consensus is that we have until 2030 to act to make rapid and far—reaching transitions in all areas of our economies if we are to limit global warming to 1.5° – that’s just 11 years away. changing finance is one of the fastest and most effective ways to achieve this. the opposition that we’ve heard in this house to climate action is actually about protecting the profits of corporations and financial institutions above our future, and everyone knows it. the millions of schoolchildren who have been striking from school to march on the streets across europe and around the world know it. they demand real action – not tokenism, not carbon taxes – real action, such as a 100% renewable energy by 2030. you call them idealistic, but actually they are the ones who are being realistic. we can’t compromise or negotiate with the laws of physics or chemistry. we can’t buy time, and there’ll be no profits for your corporate friends on a dead planet.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes). colleagues, it is 12.00. we are starting our voting session on time, as i said. i am not italian, but i will try and be as fast as mr castaldo yesterday.
we did vote on amendment 9 and it was rejected.
that concludes the vote. *****
thank you, ms corazza bildt. the house appreciates your words and i will convey your message to the president.
we will begin the explanations of votes in one minute. voting time on wednesday 27 march 2019
i very much welcome this report, madam president, because the issue of drinking water is linked to key environmental issues which cannot be tackled by individual member states but must be tackled in a conceptual way across the continent. the philosophical idea of this report, that if we increase the credibility of drinking water, we encourage consumers to drink more tap water, not bottled water, i think that idea is very correct and it can lead to indirectly regulating the amount of plastic waste that objectively remains after drinking plastic water. so raising awareness about the quality of tap water, raising the bar for tap water to be truly safe, those are, i think, significant positive environmental actions that need to be encouraged, and that can ultimately lead to less plastic waste in the water that citizens buy in this packaged form. so the news is going in the right direction.
madam president, today we voted on our obligation to provide our citizens with water that’s fit to drink. but unfortunately, because of consistent failures by successive irish governments to protect habitats in special areas of conservation (sac) that they themselves designated, we have a situation whereby 12 000 people on the lough talt scheme have a boil water notice in place for 12 months and are likely to have it in place for the next 12 to 18 months because of the presence of cryptosporidium and unacceptable levels of thm in their drinking water. this is a disgrace. it’s totally unacceptable that 13 000 people are paying the price for foot-dragging by successive governments. if proper safeguards had been put in place 15 years ago, there would be no need for further boil water notices. the pattern in ireland is, if you’re an individual wanting to build a house, dig a drain or erect a fence in an sac they come down on you like a ton of bricks. if you’re a state agency, the rules are ignored.
thank you marian, and indeed i applaud your words on that particular issue.
mr smith, do you want to make a point? i won’t allow questions at all in this session. no blue cards.
excuse me mr batten, i have the microphone and i will speak, and then i may allow you to speak. can i say that i will definitely bring your issue to the president. i was also concerned about the use of another term: punishment beating. i find that a difficult term in the context of my own country. sir, do you have a point? (applause)
madam bearder, i really will have to interrupt. not only that, colleagues, i broke the gavel, so i will have a real problem keeping time. but on a very serious note, we have a real difficulty. i’m going to announce now that there is no catch-the-eye possible at all, with my apologies to colleagues who wanted to make an intervention, and i ask the next speakers to please adhere to time.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended briefly) written statements (rule 162)
mr president, of course it makes sense to have the same common rules for natural gas and internal market and whether they’re big producers or small producers, big distributors or small distributors, of course we have to have the same rules. i compliment the efforts made by jerzy buzek and commissioner cañete and others to try and bring that about. one of the statistics that the commissioner mentioned is worth repeating. he said 77% of the gas is imported, and 90% of it by pipelines. so, obviously common rules would have to apply here, otherwise you’d have a complete distortion. but that also brings into question our security of supply in the sense that we need to diversify. we should definitely have more lng, which gives us greater variety and choice. as well as that, of course, i have been involved in the renewable energy file. over the next few years we have to incentivise renewable gas within the european union. i spoke about that earlier today at the eurogas conference at the renaissance hotel. definitely over the period ahead, that is one way of ensuring that we will be more independent and won’t have to worry as much about pipelines into the future.
question for the commission: i would like to know, from uasail torvalds, what was meant agat nuair a thugais chun solais an leasú a bhí istigh (uimhir 2, 6 agus 9) ag lorg maolú i gcomhair oileáin na héireann ach go háirithe. i was part of the lease the other day and i didn't know what was going on. we had a year to make our choice, we had a lot of meetings, and we had a lot of people coming to the meetings, and we had a lot of people coming to the meetings. the law is an important instrument in the development of the law in the netherlands.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. uachtaráin, uasail torvalds, caithfidh mé a rá nach n-aontaím leat agus is léir nach bhfuil aon tuiscint ná cur amach agat ar shaol phobal cósta na héireann, go háirithe na hoileáin bheaga sin ar a bhfuil tú ag caint, ná i gcomhthéacs breatimeachta ach go háirithe. the president of the republic, uasail torvalds, has said that the government of ireland is not prepared to accept the proposal of the european parliament to amend the constitution of ireland to include the right of the irish people to vote in local elections. it is more important than ever to have our support now, and when we need it, we should never be afraid to ask for it and to support it on the island. there will be no fishing sector. without that, you'll be without support. i'm glad to see that every man in this country is supporting the laws of the land. i must say that i am grateful to mr mato and to other members of my group for their work in this report. there's some good things about her. i mean, i'm critical of some things, but i think there are good things about her. and they're gonna give you a lot of support, so you can't just sit there and watch. we were just farmers, when i was manager i would tell you, you're going to support. but sin is a wonderful thing to have, and we need to have it, for example, when we are unjustly accused of sin. there are many other good things about it - training of fishermen in the house, talking to the bhaid that is in the water - they will be able to get more money to improve their safety and their safety, and to store and make fish in certain places as well. and again, i can't stress how important it is to be able to give back. the sea is the sea, the wind is the wind, we are the wind. i'm very concerned about the fisheries in ireland. i don't know how much we're gonna get. there are many things we have in this country, but at least, there are some things that, if the money is going to come from this country now, will improve things in the future. thank you for your support tomorrow.
the president, the commissioner and jean-claude junker, and the devil of the partnership, were seen when the negotiations were made with each other and each other. an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-irish bank, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mannis, an anglo-mann, an anglo-mann, an anglo-mann, an we're all still paying the €34 billion we owe. tharla has been around for 10 years now and the current head of the ecb, mario draghi, is still trying to get his hands on the €31bn in anglo-irish banknotes. in 2017, it wrote €4 billion, anuraidh €3.5 billion and €1 billion went to the next year. what's the matter?
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, can i firstly congratulate sophia in ’t veld and all our colleagues who worked so closely with us to get this result today and to thank the commission. last year in my country, ireland, 30 000 eu citizens came to work, because we have full employment in ireland. many of them are young people. many of them have come to ireland and worked for maybe four or five years and then go back to their home country or go to another country to work. it is crucially important that we get people saving earlier, as the commissioner rightly said, and one of the advantages of pepp now is that we have a pan-european product. this is not the end of pepp; this is the first step, we’re taking baby steps here today. but it’s an important first step in trying to get the message across. those young people who are travelling to ireland and elsewhere to work have the opportunity of buying into a pan-european pension. secondly, it is important that this is part of the capital markets union. we need to get the connection going between investment and savers. that’s where the big problem is in europe right now. from my perspective it was very important that this product was provided for by a multiple of providers. so it’s important that the insurance industry, asset managers and others are now able to provide this product on a pan-european basis. but i want to reiterate, this is a third pillar product. this is a voluntary product. it does not cut across in any way first or second pillar pension provision. this is a product that delivers on strong consumer protection. it delivers on giving citizens full transparency of costs and esg policy. it ensures mandatory advice, strong contract requirements, rights of switching and a fee cap, and the product intervention powers of eiopa and competent authorities. we have made a good start with this proposal. it is not the end of the matter by any manner or means, but it certainly deals with the issue that we face in europe, that we are going to have. it is anticipated that we will have one worker for every two pensioners by 2060. currently there are four pensioners for every one worker. if we don’t encourage people to save we’re going to find our situation getting worse and worse over the years. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i have.
the president, having voted in favour of the report, shall send it to the rapporteur, the president, shall make it public, and the commission shall draw up a report on the results of the consultation. is maith an rud is to go to the same rules as the laws in all the pipelines entering the union. but i know that nord stream will be the pipeline. and especially important for the eu is that 77% of the gas used in the eu comes into the pipeline without it. from now on, the same rules apply to laws within the union and to those entering it. we have done a lot to complete the energy union and to put it into effect in the union and we can be satisfied with the work we have done in the last five years.
(inaudible) ... and tourist culture, and i think it’s a good report. the current system has oftentimes proved quite complex, which hinders the granting of funding to those who most deserve it. new provisions adopted by the committee on fisheries (pech) will allow for more flexible access to compensation provided by the fund in case of permanent cessation of fishing activities, where important restructuring of the fleet is necessary. overall, the new provisions will simplify the system, and as such should make it more accessible. my hope is that this will benefit the irish fishing community hugely, including our islands, for which there were some amendments. member states and operators will be able to use the funds according to their needs, instead of being bound by a list of pre—defined measures and eligibility rules. it will also support and encourage investments aiming at improving the safety and working life and living conditions of the crew on board and improving the quality of the fish within the capacity limits for each member state.
mr president, i voted in favour of this regulation, which will contribute to the eu’s action against travel document fraud and ensure that minimum security standards are in place for identity cards and residence cards issued by member states. seventeen million eu citizens reside in – and more than 12 million work in – a member state other than their own country of nationality. well over a billion people travel within the eu, across its external borders, every year. fraudulent documents can be used by criminals and terrorists when entering the eu from non-eu countries, so it is imperative that we support this move to enhance the security of eu citizens’ identity cards, as well as residence documents issued to eu citizens and their family members. i welcome the important efforts being made to tackle fraud based on forged documents and false representation regarding conditions attached to the right of residence. if i am re—elected to the european parliament, it’s an area i’d like to do further work on to ensure that the honest people of the european union will not suffer as a result of fraudulent activity.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms virginie rozière, the shadow rapporteurs and the council presidencies for the hard work accomplished which allowed for swift agreement on this important proposal. yes, i agree with the rapporteur, the negotiations were not easy, but we all knew that we were working on something very, very important, and the commission considers the agreement reached is a well-balanced compromise, both in terms of ensuring robust protection for whistle-blowers and in strengthening the enforcement of eu law. recent scandals such as ‘dieselgate’, luxleaks, the panama papers or cambridge analytica, would not have come to light without the courage of whistle-blowers. by protecting whistle-blowers through these rules, we can better detect and prevent harm to the public interest such as fraud, corruption, corporate tax avoidance and damage to people’s health or the environment. this compromise ensures high standards of protection, widely available reporting channels and a broad, personal and material scope. whistle-blowers are encouraged to use the internal channel first where the breach can be effectively addressed within the organisation they work for. the availability of easily accessible internal channels, both in the public and the private sector and in all companies with 50 or more employees, will provide this possibility to whistle-blowers. but – and i know this was an important issue for this house – whistle-blowers will also have the free choice to report directly to the competent authorities as they see fit in light of the circumstances of the case. they will be fully protected when doing so. the broad material scope guarantees that the directive will strengthen enforcement in key areas of eu law and policies. this gives effect to the commission’s commitment to put stronger focus on enforcement to serve the general interest, as set out in its 2016 communication on eu law: better results through better application. moreover, as this is a directive with common minimum standards, the commission encourages the member states to extend the directive’s rules to other areas and to establish comprehensive frameworks for whistle-blower protection. this possibility for member states is now explicitly reflected in that text. as part of the compromise on the material scope we foresee a review of the implementation of the directive at the earliest possible time. that means in 2025, four years after the transposition of the directive and, in this context, to assess specifically the issue of including the social policy area in the material scope of the directive. this would allow for an in-depth assessment of how the directive would interact with the existing social acquis. accordingly, the commission will make the following political declaration to be annexed to the directive: ‘at the time of the review to be conducted in accordance with article 27 of the directive, the commission will consider the possibility of proposing to extend its scope of application to certain acts based on articles 153 and 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union after consulting the social partners, where appropriate, in accordance with article 154.’ (end of quote.) to conclude, by agreeing on these standards the eu is demonstrating its commitment to transparency, good governance, accountability and freedom of expression which are values and rights on which the eu is based, and this is a clear and important signal that we are sending to the citizens and stakeholders on the eve of the european elections. the commission fully supports the compromise found by the co-legislators and looks forward to tomorrow’s vote.
rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control. – madam president, whistle—blowers are extraordinary people. they’re brave people. they take massive risks. what we’ve done here today hopefully means that you won’t have to be an extraordinarily brave person to become a whistle—blower because, at the moment, in my country, if you become a whistle—blower, you are right to be afraid. you will be mentally tortured, you will be financially destroyed, and you will probably never ever work again. what we’ve got to do is create a situation where absolutely everyone has zero fear about reporting wrongdoing and that, when they do, they will not be the people who end up with the whistle stuck in their throat, not able to breathe, not able to exist, not able to live. so i think we’ve done something good here today. that doesn’t always happen, so i clap for that.
madam president, i welcome many of the important developments in the capital requirements package, such as the new anti-money laundering provisions and restrictions on pay and dividends for breaches of capital requirements. the introduction of tlac (total loss-absorbing capacity) has been hailed by some as a sufficient solution to solve the problem of too-big-to-fail banks, but i don’t believe that’s possible without bank structural reform and a larger binding leverage ratio. the bank recovery and resolution directive has already been proven to be ineffective at preventing tax payer-funded bailouts. from the beginning of the process of negotiating the package, we have expressed serious concerns over the capital leverage ratio being set at just 3%. we should remember that the oecd and the us federal deposit insurance corporation recommend a leverage ratio of at least 5% for institutions that are systematically important. so we are allowing, effectively, eu banks’ desire to compete with their american counterparts to put financial stability at risk. finally, we’ll never be able to separate the too-big-to-fail problem from bank structural reform. the most effective way to achieve the objective of risk reduction is to separate retail from investment banking. the fact that, a decade after the financial crisis, legislators have failed to achieve this is an absolute indictment, in my view, on all eu institutions and a total failure to meet the expectations that european citizens had placed in us all.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by othmar karas and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european banking authority); regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority); regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority); regulation (eu) no 345/2013 on european venture capital funds; regulation (eu) no 346/2013 on european social entrepreneurship funds; regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments; regulation (eu) 2015/760 on european long-term investment funds; regulation (eu) 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds; regulation (eu) 2017/1129 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market; and (eu) directive 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money-laundering or terrorist financing (com(2017)0536 – c8-0319/2017 – 2017/0230(cod)) (a8-0013/2019);– the report by othmar karas and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1092/2010 on european union macro-prudential oversight of the financial system and establishing a european systemic risk board (com(2017)0538 – c8-0317/2017 – 2017/0232(cod)) (a8-0011/2019); and– the report by othmar karas and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments and directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) (com(2017)0537 – c8-0318/2017 –2017/0231(cod)) (a8-0012/2019).
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, as the commissioners will know, progressive voices across europe opposed the capital markets union (cmu) project, and they do so because it aims to sideline the problems in the eu’s banking sector by massively expanding the shadow banking sector and deregulating cross-border finance. this introduces in itself unacceptable new risks and dangers to financial stability. but it has to be said that as far as this review is concerned, our group thinks that the expansion of the powers of the eu supervisory authorities to accompany the deepening of the cmu is absolutely necessary. in some cases we acknowledge that the opposition of certain member states to expanding the powers of the european supervisory authorities (esas) throughout this process has been based on legitimate concerns. but in other cases though, it was based on a reluctance to actually subject a shadow banking and funds sector that thrives on secrecy and on an almost total lack of oversight to any kind of supervision at all. it’s this secrecy and lack of supervision that actually allows the mis—selling of financial products and money laundering to thrive. the boost in powers for the esas, therefore, is something i welcome, but the outcome of the negotiations is far from ideal and should have been, and could have been, more ambitious. we don’t just need to increase supervision. we need to reduce the massive volume of trade in complex financial products that takes place in the shadows and that threatens the financial stability of our entire economy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prudential supervision of investment firms and amending directives 2013/36/eu and 2014/65/eu (com(2017)0791 – c8-0452/2017 –2017/0358(cod)) (a8-0295/2018); and– the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prudential requirements of investment firms and amending regulations (eu) no 575/2013, (eu) no 600/2014 and (eu) no 1093/2010 (com(2017)0790 – c8-0453/2017 – 2017/0359(cod)) (a8-0296/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on failure to adopt a eu digital services tax (2019/2695(rsp)). i should inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. there is a round of speakers for the political groups.
madam president, the commission plans to allocate eur 13 billion over the next five years for an eu defence fund: a euphemism for a european army. and this at a time when public services in countries like ireland are stretched to breaking point. military neutrality is an important plank of irish foreign policy. sinn féin will oppose increased irish contributions to an eu budget that is concentrating on developing a war machine. instead, we will defend irish neutrality in order to save our taxpayers millions, keep our citizens safer, safeguard our international reputation and allow us to play a positive role in peace-building across the world. last week, fianna fáil and fianna gael rejected a sinn féin motion that will allow the irish people the chance to enshrine neutrality in our constitution. this was just another missed opportunity to spare us the indignity of funding and implicitly supporting the ever-hastening moves towards an eu army that all too many in this house pursue. sinn féin will play no part in these games. we will fight for irish neutrality all day, every day.
the president, by decision of the agri choice, voted to increase the single payment to €50-100 million to ensure that the eu's external debt ceiling is reached by 2026. the total amount of aid received by the irish authorities is €72 million; dún na ngall €61 million; gaillimh €38 million; sligeach €21 million; liatroim €21 million. i said, "maybe", but i don't know what the three of us are up to.
i have received some blue-card requests, but because the president has set the precedent, we don’t give blue-card requests during the leaders’ speeches.
thank you, mr brok. this is your last speech in this chamber. you have served us well and i hope you do not completely forget about european politics. you will be looking at it from afar. thank you, and i think the house has honoured you with the applause. (applause)
thank you very much, mr nicholson, and as somebody who worked with you and works with you on the committee on agriculture and rural development, can i say you have been a very constructive colleague, looking after the interests of those you represent for over thirty years, and we wish you well. we thought your last speech previously was going to be the final one, but you’ve had an opportunity – a day extra. so, thank you mr nicholson, and i am apologising to the time-keepers here. i am in trouble already.
blue-card question. – i don’t, as you know, normally take issue with colleagues – in fact this is only the second blue card in 10 years in parliament – but when i hear ms anderson saying that dublin has left the north behind, when everybody knows that the irish government did everything possible with our colleagues michel barnier and others, how can she say that when sinn féin themselves don’t take their seats anywhere?
madam president, firstly my sympathy as well, on behalf of the irish government, on the destruction of the iconic notre—dame. as regards brexit, it could be summarised as: the plot thickens, the uncertainty remains, and the people suffer. that is definitely the situation in my country in relation to businesses affected by brexit and, for instance, farmers who are taking eur 100—200 less per animal now than they were last year directly because of the uncertainty of brexit. so hopefully, theresa may and jeremy corbyn can come to an agreement, but that seems to be doubtful. if they don’t, a decisive decision has to be made to postpone brexit indefinitely. we have to retain certainty. it is also affecting my constituency. we were to elect five members of the european parliament, but it now seems that we are electing four. but we can’t actually blame the british for that. it’s our own fault, because i asked two years ago that we shouldn’t distribute any seats until the british had left, because it was discourteous to them and also there was a possibility – remote, as it seemed – that they might not go on 29 march. my words have come to pass, so now we are in a bit of a mess. but let’s get over it and let’s end brexit if no decision is taken to agree the withdrawal agreement this week.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by enrique calvet chambon, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on transparent and predictable working conditions in the european union (com(2017)0797 – c8—0006/2018 – 2017/0355(cod)) (a8-0355/2018).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, can i thank the rapporteur for his constructive approach, the shadow rapporteurs, our co-legislators in the council, and madam thyssen and the commission. when i looked at this proposal initially, i did have some questions around its added value and the impact it would have on eures, the platform for undeclared work, etc. but i believe that the piece of legislation that we have now has, in short, the necessary cooperation and streamlining to give us an efficient and effective ela. the other question i had at the beginning was: what problems are we trying to solve, and will this piece of legislation actually solve those problems? free movement of workers is working, but from time to time issues arise that can undermine the trust in the system and that question fairness and compliance. those issues, i believe, require an independent authority that will strengthen operational coordination and cooperation between member states, mediate in cross-border disputes and facilitate dispute settlements. i believe that the final piece of legislation addresses many of the identified problems around the day-to-day operational free movement of workers, and by doing so, i believe it facilitates free movement of workers for all eu citizens and a more streamlined system because of cooperation between member states, and crucially, it will help to restore trust in the system, trust between member states and trust between citizens. this won’t be my final intervention in parliament, but it’s one of the last, and i’m especially pleased today to be able to say that i was part of a team that helped to deliver a piece of legislation that will enhance the free movement of workers while at the same time reassuring citizens and member states that this is a system they can trust and believe in.
mr president, i voted in favour of the capital requirements regulation and directive to propose revisions and address continuing challenges to financial stability. the risk reduction measures proposed will improve conditions for investment in goods and services and strengthen the resilience of eu banks. the revision of requirements for smaller banks will positively impact small and medium enterprises (smes). i am supportive of more flexible lending conditions for small and medium enterprises, supporting their growth by treating smaller banks in a proportionate way. i support the focus placed here on risk sensitivity. it is a highly important factor in building stability and ensuring a robust and strong european economy post—crisis. there is a good balance struck here between reducing risks while continuing to encourage funding and investment. mr simon and his colleagues have done a good job.
mr president, i support these amendments to the solvency ii directive. the introduction of more refined tools in this area is to be welcomed. establishing notification and collaboration platforms will facilitate information exchange between national and supervisory authorities. this is just one of the proposed tools for encouraging convergence and cooperation in the insurance field. i’m in favour of this consumer-focused approach to supervision. improved communication between member states, balanced by the supervision of data reporting service providers, will protect consumer interests. i support the strengthening of the single market for insurance as part of a broader, continued european integration in financial supervision while preserving a balance in the competences of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and of national authorities. it’s a good balance here. well done to mr karas and ms berès.
mr president, well done to my colleague, markus ferber. the revision of rules concerning investment firms is good. the risks involved in the business model of investment firms must be addressed, particularly where the scale of these firms means that their failure poses a systemic risk to the economy. because investment firms are exposed to much less credit risk than banks, they may act with more impunity. it makes sense that where a firm acts on a scale that could present a risk to the economy, it is subjected to the same rules as are applied to banks. the introduction of more tailored rules for smaller, non-systemic investment firms will also improve transparency and level the playing field. of course we have to remember that the flow of investment and saving across the eu is facilitated by investment firms. this is why the adoption of enhanced and tailored supervisory rules to better accommodate the business model of investment firms is important.
mr president, this is a very opportune discussion, especially with our european elections only six weeks away. i’d like to compliment commissioner king for his proposals and his efforts to get to grips with this very worrying situation. indeed, going back to mark zuckerberg when he appeared here in the european parliament, he did indicate that the incidence of interference was in decline and obviously we need to ensure that it is reduced further. i’m just wondering, especially in relation to all these fake accounts – 116 million – and i presume the people that were threatening to kill our good friend mr tarand probably had fake accounts as well, is there some way that we should look at monitoring fake accounts before they actually are accounts? in other words, is there some type of passport, proving your identity before you actually get on facebook and the other social media platforms, because as long as fake accounts are there, they’re going to be able to do what they like with impunity, to a large degree.
mr president, i am delighted to see after a tough negotiation our rapporteurs were able to get an agreement on the horizon europe programme and i congratulate colleagues ehler and nica. and also congratulations to commissioner moedas who, in his exuberance i thought was going to congratulate everybody in parliament, but congratulations, commissioner, to you for your good work. this is a hugely important programme for the next multiannual financial framework (mff). it will build on the achievements of some of our recent programmes, such as horizon 2020 and fp7 and help us to reach our targets and create jobs, particularly in the areas of renewable energy, food production, digital etc. this is the most ambitious research programme ever and will strengthen the eu’s science and technology capacity and, indeed, leadership in a number of areas. i particularly welcome the significant budget that has been allocated to agriculture and food production. producing sufficient sustainable and sufficiently healthy food for all, now and in the future, in europe and globally, while facing extreme weather, resource scarcity, changing markets and demanding consumers will require innovation and technological development. horizon europe will ensure that our future food production will be more sustainable and competitive, protecting the environment and catering to various needs. also i welcome the strong support being given to climate action and also research into cancer. this is a fantastic result for this parliament. i look forward to voting for it tomorrow and seeing europe further driving leadership in this area border—wide.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as legislators, our responsibility is to ensure that whatever legislation we support tomorrow will improve the current situation, will address identified problems or blockages, will contribute to free and fair movement of workers, and will ensure trust, certainty and social fairness and a level playing field for all workers. that’s our benchmark in the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde). therefore, in alde, we believe that the original commission proposal is a decent attempt at achieving an improved regime. the draft agreement at trilogue had a number of positive elements, but the council could not support it. there are positive elements in today’s report on family benefits, on long—term healthcare and on the non-codification of the european court of justice (ecj) judgments. however, we believe that the amendment on article 13, which could include drivers, would cause nightmares for drivers and employers, potentially subjecting drivers to a number of different social security regimes, and we have tabled amendments to remove that proposal. we do not agree that frontier workers can choose which social security system they will benefit from. this would cause huge uncertainty for member states and undermine the social contract between cross—border workers and national workers. we don’t support one aggregation. again, this will, in some member states, create an anomaly between cross—border and national workers. if our amendments on these matters are accepted, we can, on balance, support this legislation. but, if they are not accepted, we believe it will not deliver balanced and fair legislation. finally, can i thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for their commitment to this dossier. we didn’t always agree, but we certainly worked our best.
i am a very fair chairperson, so i think people who are on a list, if they arrive, i usually allow them speak. but your point is well made and i’m sure mr coburn will set his alarm clock earlier for the next early debate that we have.
thank you ms thyssen. i’m sure the colleagues on the committee on employment and social affairs know you better, perhaps, but i want to say, on my own behalf, thank you for your cooperation and for always meeting groups and keeping in mind the best interests of our citizens. i wish you well, on behalf of parliament here this morning, in your endeavours for the future. thank you so much.
thank you to our rapporteur. if only we could replace fear with hope. because i have time and i am in poetic mood, i will repeat again the lines of a very famous irish poet, seamus heaney: ‘so hope for a great sea-change on the far side of revenge. believe that a further shore is reachable from here. believe in miracles and cures and healing wellsʼ. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i would like to say to prime minister krišjānis kariņš that, for five years he sat here between myself and gunnar hökmark, where carlos is now, and he was a great colleague. prime minister, i want to remind you of one thing: when i came here ten years ago, i went to the canteen on the first day and i must have looked like a lost soul, because you and some of your colleagues invited me to share lunch with you. i haven’t forgotten that. it shows the decency of you, krišjānis, a great friend. thank you for standing by ireland. we mentioned it again last night at our ppe meeting. it is much appreciated. just one question: i was delighted that you led by mentioning money laundering and criminality and how you cleaned up the whole murky business in your country. and then you said they would move from one country to another. what would you like us to do in the next parliament to try and move that forward, to reduce money laundering and criminality for the benefit of citizens? again, welcome. you were a great colleague, and long may you reign as prime minister of latvia.
mr president, this is my last speech to parliament, and i’m delighted that my good friend and colleague prime minister kariņš is with us today. what he has set out today is a positive pragmatic agenda for the future of the european union. the best way to counter populism and nationalism across all our member states, whether it comes from the hard left or the hard right, is to ensure that we have prosperity in the european union. the european union is not just a peace project; it is also a project of economic and social progress. your agenda, prime minister, today is clear: more trade, taking down the barriers that prevent the proper single market, standing up to protectionism, more open investment to the european union, and proper competition. that is the agenda which ensures that we will have more jobs, more investment, more growth and more hope for the future of our citizens here in the european union. it has been an honour to serve with you. we stand by you and the pragmatism that you have brought to that great country of yours in the democracy, freedom and rule of law values that you spoke about so eloquently to this house this morning.
mr president, having been involved in the whole climate change agenda all during this mandate, i am delighted to take part in this debate and indeed very pleased with the progress we have made in parliament and compliments to commissioner arias cañete, who has led us from the paris agreement right up to here, and also people like bas eickhout, who has been a driving force in this whole area in the past five years. we have, as miriam dalli said, another policy in place, that’s very important, and i suppose this is the one area that we really need to tackle in terms of reducing emissions. i drive from my home in killarney to dublin airport, i drive from strasbourg to frankfurt, and i see more and more heavy-duty vehicles on the road, but if we bring in emission reductions it’s not actually going to decrease the amount of transport on the road but it can make it energy—efficient, and especially in relation to reducing emissions. so i think actually that we can be more ambitious over the next number of years but this is a good start. we are doing it in a sensible, progressive, step-by-step manner and that will help the industry, it will help our environment. a great job. well done. thanks to everybody.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you to the commissioner and my fellow shadow rapporteurs on the file. i think this has been a very positive file for all of us, there has been very good cooperation on this file, the maritime single window, which aims to facilitate the shipping industry, to facilitate the movement of goods through european ports, to ensure that when a ship comes to a european port that there will be a harmonised set of data with which it will have to comply or provide. currently the situation is fractured and it is not easy. a ship coming to any individual european port, even in individual countries, may and does find today that they have a different set of requirements, additional requirements at some ports, so the idea is to facilitate trade, make it more efficient and harmonise the set of data that is required. it’s a simple path now, i would say. we’ve had cooperation from seaports, an opportunity to visit them – i certainly have myself – and to engage with them and to see what they have on the ground and some ports are at a very advanced stage and others are not so. but the idea is to bring every european port to the same level through a single maritime single window. as i said, we have had very good cooperation, in the trilogues as well, and i would just thank the commissioner for her time at that and also the romanian presidency. it went very smoothly. one of the first meetings that i had in parliament here, coincidentally, was with representatives from the shipping industry and, as i said, they outlined the burden and the challenges that they all face. so, for me it’s particularly pleasing to be able to deliver now something that is to their benefit and the wider trade facilitation. we’ve just seen this week the start, hopefully, of trade negotiations with the us; with canada has been signed in this term of this parliament, and other trade deals as well – the japanese trade deal – they all mean business for our ports and business for the shipping industry and ultimately for european business and european consumers. this has been real and positive for the shipping companies and for the ports, so it’s a win—win for everybody. as i say, we are streamlining the systems and creating a maritime single window with over two million port calls in the european union every year. some ports are still using paper and 1970s technology and this changes that. it will reduce the burden, first for the short—shipping, particularly, as well and improve its competitiveness which is very important. the harmonising reporting process will increase efficiency and it’s expected to reduce the administrative burden by up to 720 million by the year 2030 by cutting the reporting time in half, and that can only be a good thing. there have been a number of particular issues that we have addressed and number one is to recognise that what’s existing at the ports already can be built upon. if, in some cases, there were additional data requirements and exceptional circumstances, that can be accommodated, but only for a limited period of time. technology neutrality was part of our debate as well and we’re happy that that has been referred to on the base of the window. and also a governance dimension, that was very important i think, and maybe my fellow shadow rapporteurs will speak on that as well, but the governance dimension was very important for us and for shipping companies as well, so that we knew if these changes were implemented who was responsible and how could it be tracked. the agreement has, as i say, been very positive and i very much look forward to the next phase of this implementation and to seeing the results in terms of the reduction in bureaucracy, time spent by shipping companies, and ultimately facilitating the smooth movement of trade into and out of european ports.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’m sure you’ll have heard from the contributions across the floor today how welcome this piece of legislation, the regulation, is. as i said, it’s a win—win for all, reducing the amount of time that shipping companies have to report – i think the commissioner said to 60%, i have 50%. well, that’s great. it’s a win-win for everybody so i think it’s really positive. again, i’d like to thank everybody for their contributions and for their support in getting us to this point. i think it’s a really positive example of what europe can do when we pull together and when we work together on making things more competitive for our shipping industry and for those businesses that depend on the shipping industry to get their goods to market. so i think it’s a really positive story. it’s a great story to end up on, for me. this is my last speech in this term. i hope i’ll be back to make more of them, but that’s up to the electorate in ireland’s south, where i come from. but i’d like to thank the commissioner sincerely for her support to me. commissioner, your time in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) in the work that i have been doing, certainly in the area of ports and the mobility package, has been very positive. i would say, personally, that i have followed the work you have done in terms of road safety and support it enthusiastically when and wherever i can, even though it’s not part of today’s debate. i’d like to thank wim van de camp as my coordinator – we would call him the leader, but he doesn’t use that term – in our ppe for his support, guidance and leadership over the last five years. gesine meißner, thank you too for the work and your commitment to the maritime area, certainly something that touches my heart. i am very happy to have been involved with you and i wish you well. we have a lot of goodbyes today. i think this is a very positive moment for many of us to finish up on, a file that will actually do good and underlines exactly what europe is about. it’s about bringing together and making things more efficient. by working together, we can produce such very positive work as that. mr president, i wish you well too in your next venture.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it's a real pity, i have to say, that i’m not in a position to support this file. despite the best efforts of the progressives within this parliament, including the rapporteur (who i commend), the right-wing groups and the council have limited the scope of this file so much that the disclosure requirement will now apply to only a tiny proportion of financial products – banks once again are let off the hook. the parliament’s report was far superior to what’s been forced upon us now by member states who are determined to avoid taking any action at all against climate change, it seems. disclosure isn’t a big risk; it’s the bare minimum we can demand from the finance sector that is doing so much to damage our economy and our environment. so let me repeat once again: the scientific consensus is that we have until 2030 to act to make rapid and far-reaching transitions in all areas of our economies if we’re to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. that’s just 11 years away. and just as we’ve seen in other votes on the sustainable finance package, conservatives who really, it has to be said, appear not to give a single damn about the future of our planet, are sabotaging the future of our children and their children. this could be my last speech, but i want to say that i hope the next mandate of this parliament will be used to reconnect with the people across europe, and there’s going to be big changes and big choices to be made in the next mandate. we have to decide whether we’re going to actually pursue real climate action or whether we’re going to just burden families with carbon taxes and pretend that we’re taking real measures. we have to decide whether we’re going to support families or whether we’re going to continue to give a free rein to the vultures and the banks. we’re going to have to decide whether we invest eu monies in creating real sustainable jobs and growth across the eu or whether we’re going to actually invest eur 13 billion in the creation of a european army. i hope i’m back here fighting for ireland and i hope that i’m here to work with all of you, so that we can create a better and a fairer european union.
the uachtaráin, is drochscéal an méid atá aglú i gcamarún le déanaí, go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann le cearta an duine agus, i gcás lucht an fhreasúra, go bhfuil siad at gcaitheamh isteach i bprisonún gan chúis - go háirithe, an ceannaire maurice kamto. the uachtaráin, is drochscéal an méid atá aglú i gcamarún le déanaí, go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann le cearta an duine agus, i gcás lucht an fhreasúra, go bhfuil siad at gcaitheamh isteach i bprisonún gan chúis - go háirithe, an ceannaire maurice kamto. the uachtaráin, is drochscéal an méid atá aglú i gcamarún le déanaí, go háirithe a mhéid a bhaineann le cearta an duine agus, i gcás lucht an fhreasúra, go bhfuil siad at gcaitheamh isteach i bprisonún gan chúis - go háirithe, an ceannaire maurice kamto. therefore, it is evident that the forces of evil are against each other. many of them have been displaced by the ongoing violence around cameroon and made up of over four million of them, and 30,000 have fled to niger. therefore, it is right to impose a burden on the authorities in cameroon: first, to ensure that maurice kamto is able to comply with the demands of the government; then, to ensure that the country is established, and in particular, to ensure that the prices are low and non-spléachable. murch san, there's not much more than that to do.
mr president, we are highlighting today the inhumane breach of human rights in brunei under the sharia penal code. certain punishments of this code amount to torture and acts of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. as brunei, i’m sure, is fully aware, these punishments are prohibited by the united nations convention against torture. the sharia penal code effectively reintroduces the death penalty and will make homosexuality punishable by death by stoning. this is an abominable and savage practice, which must be resisted. i’m proud to come from a country like ireland, where in 2015 we were the first country in the world to legalise same-sex marriage by popular vote. while religious freedom and religious tolerance are extremely important facets of the world in which we live, it is important to move forward and not backwards, and ensure that basic human rights are respected. i urge the brunei authorities to repeal the sharia penal code and ensure that its laws comply with international law and standards, respect the fundamental rights of all citizens and insist on the decriminalisation of homosexuality, and i hope all other countries around the world will send a strong message to brunei as well.
mr president, i would like to say this to high representative mogherini: just today, this parliament voted for ursula von der leyen as the new president of the commission, which means that your term will be coming to an end after the summer, and you are expected to be replaced by josep borrell, an experienced foreign minister, as you were when you came to office. i want to salute you for your devotion, for your endeavours, for your delivery, and for your stance on the eu global strategy. in spanish we have a saying that, when it comes to strategy, we don’t explain it, we implement it! and if there is a field in which the european union needs to implement a global strategy, that is africa. on environmental, human rights, demographic and migration issues, we need the european union to go global in relation to africa. that means that if the european union did not exist we would have to invent it. and if the european union is not meaningful in relation to africa, we need to make that happen and give it a chance to be globally relevant.
mr president, i wish to set the record straight regarding rubbish iterated by right—wing, anti—eu nationalists. firstly, the shameful islamophobic rant of swedish mep weimers demonstrates pure ignorance. in 2017, i met with british embassy officials in kenya who informed me of crucial eu support that prevents al—shabaab islamic extremists from moving across the border with somalia, effectively preventing them from reaching europe. i’m glad that, collectively, we train and pay the stipends of local border security. the british officials who told me this were horrified by the prospect of brexit, as it undermines global and national security. secondly, brexit mep nathan gill pretends to be a patriotic champion for the british armed forces. he is no such thing, as the ‘veterans for the eu’ campaign group will confirm. their experience serving around the world in conflict zones, working alongside eu partners, has provoked them to join the huge patriotic campaign to keep the uk in the eu for the sake of global peace and security, and i commend them for it.
mr president, over the past 18 years the us regime and its western supporters have caused untold destruction in many parts of the world, such as afghanistan, iraq, syria, libya, palestine and yemen. there is no argument for their actions and europe has been unfortunately too silent and afraid to condemn them. there is no argument whatsoever for these wars. and now we have the build-up of aggression against iran. we have the sanctions against iran, which is a form of warfare – one of the worst forms of warfare today. and what is europe doing about it? do you want saudi arabia and israel to push the us into war with iran? why don’t you end the sanctions? bring iran back into the international community. iran wants peace, not war!
mr president, mrs mogherini, the un conclusions on the situation in venezuela make it more urgent than ever to activate humanitarian aid in the face of the tragedy in the country and a process of transition to democracy. the repression and serious violations of human rights must cease. the dialogue under way has a roadmap: democratic, free and fair elections for all actors, as proposed by the venezuelan assembly, with international verification mechanisms that prevent the usurpation of the popular will on which the country's regime is based. the figures of reprisals, of murdered, of forced exiles, malnutrition, lack of medicines justify a criminal court investigation against the hierarchs of the regime and sanctions that should block the patrimony illegally obtained by them during this dictatorship.
mr president, if europeans really cared about the people of venezuela, they would organise food and medicine for them in cooperation with the legitimate government, the elected government of venezuela. you don’t have to like maduro, but he was elected and we should feel obliged to help the people in order to counteract the brutality of the us sanctions, which are bringing the country to its knees. there is no sense in these sanctions. it’s a new form of terrorism. it aims to hurt the most vulnerable the most, and they are the ones who suffer the most. it would be better if the us military invaded the place and if they shot at the venezuelans. at least the venezuelans could defend themselves in self—defence. this is the worst form of war – economic war. there is no excuse for it. your decision to support guaidó, a right—wing thug with no support worth talking about in venezuela, was a huge mistake. you talk about your interest in international law, but this is 100% against international law. any legal firm of standing will confirm that to you.
mr president, it is obvious now that the recognition of juan guaidó as interim president by a majority in this parliament was not only illegal under venezuelan and international public law, but more importantly, it has not worked. for people to come in here and to talk about a humanitarian catastrophe, with millions of people fleeing, and at the same time argue for targeted measures, more sanctions and more hardship – the very reason why many of them are fleeing in the first place – is beyond hypocrisy. you are talking about human rights violations in venezuela when you have just concluded a deal with brazil, where the president has argued for a shoot-to-kill policy on the streets. if you are really concerned about the venezuelan people, why don’t you ensure that the assets belonging to them, which are frozen around the world, are released back to them? why don’t you work with the recognised international humanitarian agencies to bring them relief? starving people into submission has never worked, and it is certainly not going to work here.
mr president, the fact that europe followed its own course when the us pulled out of the iranian deal last year was a good thing. the fact that europe then declared that the us sanctions were null and void was also the right thing to do. us sanctions against iran are criminal; they are an act of war by other means – just as destructive as guns, and just as lethal as missiles. what does it say when the international court of justice has told the us to end them, but yet they continue. i welcome the eu’s hesitancy to become embroiled in american aggression against iran – that’s a good thing – but it’s not good enough. we have to do more. to say that iran should go back to the deal when you know that they’re being forced into this position, because of the hardship being caused by the us imposed sanctions, is not really good enough. you have said, high representative, that we in europe are doing everything we can, but are we really? the united states only do what they do because we allow them to do so. we need to condemn the sanctions immediately.
mr president, madam mogherini, you say that europe really wants the deal to work. we all do. but it’s about time we started speaking straight. we know who is increasing the tensions in the persian gulf. it isn’t iran; the saudis, with the nice backing of israel and, of course, the us. why don’t we call it as it is and stop playing footsie with words? they have a problem with the powerful nature of iran, with the independence of iran, and europe does need to put its arm around iran and be more welcoming. iran is not feeling the love from europe. you have the potential to do more and welcome them more into the international community.
mr president, it’s good to hear that the finnish presidency will prioritise the challenges of climate. but i think it’s important that we take on board that one of our best options in the fight against climate system breakdown is a dramatic global tree-planting programme that would sequester greenhouse gases. yet, the mercosur trade deal will ensure that we speed up the deforestation of the amazon. trade deals that facilitate a race to the bottom, in terms of environmental protections and quality standards, are incompatible with meaningful climate action. the smaller farmers of ireland and europe are already finding life difficult. bringing in cheap food, cheap meat, cheap grain from the mercosur countries is not the way forward. the farmers that can have the potential to sustainably work farming are being pushed out of existence by trade deals like this.
madam president, strip away the nice words and the reality is that europe’s asylum and migration system is built around the desires of the arms industry, who profit twice. firstly, from the wars that make people refugees in the first place and then reaping the rewards of multi-billion euro border-security contracts to keep the victims away from us. now what sort of a choice is it? that you’re so desperate that you leave your family, your friends, everything you know and you’ve either got to gamble with your life on the mediterranean – depending on the valiant efforts of ngos – or you find yourself in a detention camp in libya to be raped, starved, exploited and tortured. and do you know what? there seems to be no end to europe’s attitude to keep fortress europe alive. the commission’s contemptuous dismissal of the call by the un to end the migrant returns to italy after the air strike really tells us all we need to know. the utter failure to overturn and reform the dublin regulation also tells it. it’s a blight on all of our consciences.
mr president, at the outset i just want to say that the european union has an obligation to do an awful lot more than it is presently doing. we cannot have a situation where the burden falls on a few states to deal with the particular humanitarian crisis that is unfolding in the mediterranean. so there’s a moral imperative on us to ensure that we have sensible immigration policies but, in the meantime, the people who are clinging to boats in the mediterranean cannot be allowed to wait. we have to ensure that we have a new search and rescue mission immediately in the mediterranean. the irish navy was previously involved in operation sophia, where it rescued thousands of people. i now call on the commission, along with the member states which have naval support, to ensure that we have a proper search and rescue mission put in place immediately to address the unfolding humanitarian crisis. the long-term issue of immigration can be addressed as well but we have this moral imperative immediately. i have been disappointed that the irish government has not funded the irish navy to the point where we now have two naval ships tied up in dry dock because of a lack of personnel. they should be in the mediterranean sea, along with other naval boats from other countries, addressing this humanitarian crisis. urgently act.
thank you for your words. today we are talking about the state of europe's forests. we all know that forests are our lungs, that they play a very important role in sinking carbon, and that wood products are the real storage of this greenhouse gas. on the other hand, the situation in europe varies greatly from country to country. i come from slovenia, which is 60 percent forested, and in slovenia we have a quality, sustainable forest management system, and the percentage and area of forests is increasing. but our forests, like others, are vulnerable to a variety of environmental influences, from fires, to the effects of snowstorms, to the effects of avalanches. we must therefore strengthen this sector and provide the appropriate means in the rural development programme, as well as in the life and horizon programmes, so that we can continue to manage forests in a responsible and high-quality way in the future.
mr president, the irish government recently published a plan to create 8,000 hectares of new forestry every year. the target for these newly planted trees is for 70% conifers and 30% broad leaves. this plan will essentially double down on ireland’s existing commercial forestry policy, which violates the basic principles of biodiversity, with its complete over-dependence on sitka spruce conifers. europe does not need factory-farm forests and cash-crop multicultures. we need the right trees in the right places. 42% of all sitka spruce grown in ireland is harvested for energy purposes, the rest is used as construction timber. 51% of ireland’s total forested area is made up of sitka spruce, therefore an enormous amount of ireland’s forests are burned as biomass. 42% of all the sitka spruce grown in ireland is released back into the atmosphere as carbon. at the heart of the problem is the renewable energy directive: the crazy and completely unscientific policy of treating biomass as having zero emissions or as being carbon neutral. i’d ask the commissioner to revisit the directive.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the idea that you can patent plants, animals and biological processes is bizarre, but that's exactly what's happening. for example, there is a patent on salmon and trout fed with certain plants, which increases the unsaturated fatty acid content. but these fish and plants are not inventions! these absurd patents lead to the monopolisation of our food and endanger food security. but despite the strong resistance of farmers, citizens, growers, the commission and this parliament to these evil practices, the european patent office continues to grant patents to food multinationals. that is unacceptable and i therefore ask the commission: what and how are you going to stop this? i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too join the almost unanimous chorus of colleagues who have spoken and who have already expressed their opposition to this truly incomprehensible decision of the european patent office. moreover, parliament's position on the patentability of plants obtained by natural and organic methods is clear, and has been since 2015, when this house voted - i want to remind you - by a clear majority against such patents. the council and then the commission have made the same statement, and i do not think there can be any doubt about the political will to not endorse any kind of patent on plants obtained by biological processes. so, commissioner, we are asking you today, we are asking the commission, to make its authoritative voice heard in the final stage of this procedure before the european patent office, so that the plant breeding sector is protected but above all the general interest of european citizens is protected.
madam president, commissioner, this is an unacceptable and dangerous abuse. the multinational seed companies want a monopoly on life and promote progress and innovation. it's an excuse. and this is not just a legal problem, it's also an ethical and moral problem. i would like to remind you, commissioner, that at the council of ministers on 18 march many member states, and therefore the majority of the governments of the european union, expressed their support for the commission's interpretative note of 2016, which states that products derived from essentially biological processes should not be patentable. finally, products derived from essentially organic processes should not be patentable, as this is the best guarantee of the permanent availability of all types and varieties of seeds for our farmers.
madam president, as we come to the end of the debate, i join the unanimous opinion of this house, of all the political groups present here and of all the members who have spoken, and this unanimity was also expressed in the committee on agriculture, and we therefore want to send the commission - in this case mrs bieńkowska - a clear and unequivocal political message from the committee and from this house: patentability of plants obtained by biological processes cannot be granted, clearly. and for that they have to intervene, with that claim of the process, before october 1. that is why this oral question, that is why this resolution, is true in the third place. it is a very sensitive matter, which also shows whether we are going to be responsive to this patent office. i would like to conclude by saying that the general public interest must be safeguarded and that a clear distinction must be made between protected and patented varieties. the position of this parliament is clear. i hope that the european commission will also be able to cope with the situation.
madam president, i listened with interest to the commissioner's opinion and i thank her for it. i am glad that there is general agreement that patent protection in plant and animal breeding is nonsense. but we have a dispute with the european patent office, which seems to have succumbed to a certain breeding lobby. i appreciate, therefore, that the commission's position is clear on this point and that the council's position was also consistent in the sense in which we are making the appeal here. so it's up to the member states to also help push this will through the negotiations at the european patent office, because the eu member states have a majority there. i therefore strongly advocate that this initiative be continued in cooperation between the european commission, parliament and the member states, and i believe that this absurd measure will be overturned.
madam president, it’s ludicrous that the european patent authority thinks they can issue patents for plants that are naturally occurring. here we have natural varieties of broccoli and tomatoes being patented just for more and more profit. quite frankly, you couldn’t make it up. multinationals already have enough negative impact on our lives. it would be madness to allow them to monopolise natural life, putting pressure on farmers and commodifying every aspect of our lives. they get away with this already with gmos, which we should not tolerate either. you should demand that the european patent office respect the european patent convention which excludes natural life from being patented. patenting natural life is unthinkable. it is capitalism gone mad.
madam president, over a million people in hong kong have taken to the streets to peacefully exercise their fundamental right to protest. in response, they have been met with brutality, tear gas and rubber bullets. many have been arrested and injured. their only crime is a struggle for democracy and human rights. their values are our values and they’re taking huge risks in endangering their livelihoods and even their lives. the commission and the european external action service really need to consider all measures in their power to support the people of hong kong, who are looking to us with hope, for support and with their demand for universal suffrage. we have the leverage. for example, should we consider the threat of withdrawal of hong kong’s financial status as third country equivalence if the chinese government takes aggressive action against the protesters and their leaders? i would like to remind the chinese and hong kong governments of their obligations to the ‘one country, two systems’ principle – to the protection of civil and political rights in hong kong that they signed up to at the time of transfer from the uk in 1997. the eu – especially the uk – has a special responsibility to the people of hong kong. we need to act to protect them and ensure that they are given refuge in europe if they continue to be targeted.
honorable chair, thank you very much, madam chair, it has been 100 days since the beginning of the protests in hong kong, the biggest crisis in relations with china since 1997, when, in accordance with the principle of one country, two systems, with a wide autonomy hong kong was returned to china. although the controversial law that would have made it easier to extradite hong kong citizens to china for trial has since been withdrawn, protesters continue to fight with equal intensity for an expanded list of demands. among other things, they are demanding a greater degree of democratic freedoms and the release of thousands of arrested protesters. we are concerned about the increasing violence on the streets of hong kong. the legislation of hong kong should operate in full compliance with international standards and human rights. similarly, in the process of implementing its reforms and increasing global engagement, china has made a declaratory commitment to the international human rights framework, as a signatory to international treaties. the first priority is therefore to create the necessary conditions to end the violence and to ensure the continuation of dialogue between all key stakeholders. it's the only guarantee that the agreements and commitments made will be honoured. (the ombudsman agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, thank you very much for the question and i hope that we will all answer it together in this mandate of the european parliament, answering precisely the question of how and in what way to deal with the relations of the european union with all those countries whose actions are suspected, justified or proven to be threatening democratic standards. we are not going to put the race for profit first, we are not going to put economic interests first, and yet we are going to put aside some of the, i would say, fundamental and enduring values of the european union itself. if we really measure both well, we may indeed be able to influence the improvement of human rights standards in those environments where they are clearly not adequately respected. so it's really up to us to choose the policy of our own priorities.
madam chairman, in my opinion we must support the peaceful protesters in hong kong, it's been 100 days that have shaken hong kong. they have also shaken our confidence in the dialogue that the parties can conduct to reach a successful solution. the protesters are protecting their right to autonomy, their fundamental right to assemble, which is guaranteed by the hong kong constitution. i'm glad that the extradition amendment has just been withdrawn, but our vote, i think, today should be in support of hong kong democracy and peaceful protesters, because the spiral of violence and provocation that has been unleashed in hong kong is really dangerous. i think we should support human rights despite some investments, we've already talked about that here, because we have to talk about human rights even when we go on delegations to china. who else is going to speak but us, and we're not trading human rights for business opportunities, i don't think we should.
madam president, along with other british socialists and democrats, labour party members, students and democracy activists, i signed an open letter to express solidarity with the continuing struggle for democracy in hong kong. we support the hong kong people’s upsurge against the attacks on their democratic rights, against oppression and inequality. we support the immediate five demands of the movement: for an end to repression, for serious measures to deal with the police state and for democracy, including a government elected by universal suffrage. we call on the labour and trade union movement across the world to organise political and practical solidarity with the hong kong struggle for democracy. we support independent workers’ and students’ organisations involved in the struggle. we demand the reinstatement of the cathay pacific airline workers sacked for supporting the democracy movement, including their union leader rebecca sy and city legislative council member jeremy tam. the battle to defend democratic liberties of all workers, particularly migrants in the us and uk, is inseparable from that of our sisters and brothers in hong kong now.
madam president, i find a serious lack of balance with this debate. not all the protests in hong kong have been peaceful. their leadership has close ties to the far right and there has been much foreign interference and disinformation, with millions of dollars flown from the us regime change outfit, national endowment for democracy, into the civil society groups at the heart of this anti-china movement. there is even a photo of a protest leader meeting with a us diplomat in hong kong. there are legitimate concerns for many of these young people who are on the streets, with their bleak job prospects and rising rents more closely connected to neoliberalism, the financialisation of the city and the domination by oligarchs of their economy and the property sector. saying that china must meet the demands of this violent foreign-backed anti-china proxy force would just be the eu getting in on the foreign meddling in china’s affairs. let’s not wear blinkers on this matter.
madam president, i roundly condemn police violence anywhere, by any state force on any continent, but i have to say that there is something very selective about this discussion on the protests in hong kong and indeed the blanket coverage that they are being given across europe. the issue is being portrayed as a simplistic one with authoritarian china, on the one hand, and people crying out for freedom and democracy on the other. nothing is ever that simple and there is plenty of evidence of external interference. much of the anger in hong kong is directed at the fact that the cost of living is astronomical with the highest rents in the world. but i find it a bit intriguing that we have to go halfway across the world to find a place where we can denounce police repression or where we can back democratic rights. here in france, for example, the behaviour of the police and brutal repression has resulted in hundreds of people securing permanent injuries. we are saying nothing about that. there are political prisoners in jails in spain, including some of our colleagues here. we say nothing about that. so, while supporting the release of prisoners in hong kong and supporting investigations into violence there, i offer the same support for the european continent – in france and spain and all the other countries that are trampling on democratic rights.
mr president, setting targets and talk of ambitions will not be worth a damn if the policies the eu adopts make things worse rather than better: the ipcc has called for near-term reductions in natural gas production of 15% by 2030 and 43% by 2050, relative to 2020. these kind of reductions are not compatible with the expansion of the current natural gas system, including the building of new, liquefied natural gas capacity and the importation of frack gas from the us. so why are we are expanding our liquefied natural gas systems? because shell, one of the biggest polluters on the planet, successfully lobbied the commission in the lead-up to the 2014 eu climate pact. the idea that gas is a more suitable transition fuel than an energy approach based on renewables was created by shell. commissioner, do you not think that achieving higher reduction targets is unlikely to be achieved unless we challenge neoliberalism?
madam president, firstly i would like warmly to welcome the appointment of ms lagarde to the european central bank. with her appointment we now have women as presidents of two of the most important institutions in europe, the ecb and the commission. this is huge progress for gender equality in europe. clearly, major challenges remain, not least in the economic and financial areas. recently, at the committee on economic and monetary affairs, ms lagarde made a very important point: the ecb needs to understand and explain itself to people, not only to the markets. that should be a critical and crucial guiding principle for the ecb: listening to our citizens. trust in the eu institutions has been below 50% since 2008, a clear sign that the union was still suffering from the after-effects of the financial crisis. in ireland, our population went through enormous pain during the crisis, and legacy issues remain. irish variable mortgage rates are double the eurozone average rates, our banking system is highly concentrated, with little outside competition, and we face the challenges of brexit. i would conclude by saying that i want to express my appreciation to ms lagarde for her help to ireland during the very difficult years of the financial crisis.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, liberals – the centre right and left – struggle to believe that they are losing segments of elections to the far right and, much like the democrats in the us, are more interested in endlessly talking about russian interference than addressing their own failings. the real electoral interference in the us was the democratic party stealing the election from bernie sanders and putting forward a figure that made trump sound ok. the real source of the swing to the right in europe is not outside interference. it’s a decade of crushing austerity, the neo—liberalisation of the labour sector, the rise of inequality and the theft of the economic resources of the global south through financial imperialism, coupled with our imperialist military campaigns that create the conditions that drive people out of their homes looking for a liveable existence. america has been meddling and interfering in other countries’ elections and democratic processes for over a hundred years and has done so in a ruthless and brutal manner that makes the alleged russian interference in the 2016 elections in america look like child’s play.
mr president, despite the attempt to obscure this subject by diluting the debate, i will focus on the role of russian propaganda, because as we know, kremlin propaganda has a very significant influence in the role of fake news and of course it has also improved considerably over the years, even gaining additional budgetary resources. we have had a great deal of experience with russian disinformation in the czech republic and, earlier, in czechoslovakia, when the 1968 invasion was disguised as fraternal aid. or, for example, we have recently had a dispute over the monument to marshal konev, who is purposely undermined only as a purely positive historical figure, and we know that this is not the case, for example, in the suppression of the hungarian uprising. we should definitely stand up to the russian disinformationists, because if they're improving, we have to improve. we have already taken a lot of steps in this direction, including the introduction of voluntary reporting by online platforms on disinformation this year. and also the creation of an early warning system to facilitate firstly the sharing of member states' knowledge of these disinformation campaigns and also to coordinate responses to them, that is very important. but what matters now is how we can put all this into practice and work effectively with it. i have high expectations from the newly appointed commission vice-president, ms jourová, who is in charge of fighting disinformation and fake news, so i'll keep my fingers crossed. (the speaker rejected the question that anna bonfrisco wanted to ask by raising her blue card.)
mr. chairman, thank you. with the development of digitalisation, information is expected to become increasingly accessible to communication platforms. it's legal, of course. the commission has also found that the information provided by the complainant is not sufficient to demonstrate that the information provided by the complainant is not of a confidential nature. the cambridge analytica scandal has exposed the way personal information is misused, used for propaganda purposes and to shape political campaigns. a eurobarometer survey from november last year points out that almost two thirds of citizens are concerned about foreign influence and the possibility of manipulating election results. the commission's preliminary review of the european elections shows that groups linked to third countries and various non-state actors have been working to undermine the credibility of the european union through social media. there is enough evidence to make this issue one of our priorities and that is why i support the establishment of a special committee. i also think that the debate should be extended to the financing of political parties, those directly linked to third countries, their influence on the content of campaigns and thus on the election results. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, for a moment i invite you to imagine the european union, which is known for setting global standards of quality of life in democracy, falling into the following situation: less independent and no investigative media, our citizens living in a post—truth society and dangerously exposed to outside manipulation and national populists are generously financed by foreign subjects. as a result, we’re living according to the national interest of such countries as russia, china or probably any extremist group. i am convinced that none of us wants this, and it is high time to review the eu and national legislation in regard to foreign financing of political parties campaigning or individual candidates, and also to install screening mechanisms for strategic foreign investments. this is how i imagine the european way of life can be sustained.
madam president, i find a real irony in the idea of electoral interference in the democratic processes of the european parliament when we all know the democratic deficit that exists, and you’d wonder why anyone would bother! but the reality is that foreign electoral interference has been going on since there were elections. the usa has been interfering on a grand scale not just in south america or the middle east but actually in the heart of europe itself. and the only reason we’re now invoking the spectre of russian interference is to blame somebody for the catastrophic electoral failures of the establishment parties in europe and the failure of neoliberal policies that have left millions of european citizens behind, have left them demoralised and disillusioned. these are the real reasons for the election of trump, for brexit and for the rise of the far right, but of course it’s far easier to pretend that it’s a conspiracy by an official enemy and that citizens are too stupid to know what’s good for them. if we’re really concerned about electoral interference, let’s address the vast and constant interference in the democratic process by lobbyists, by billionaire newspaper owners, by transnational corporations. fix that and you won’t have to worry about internet memes and facebook ‘likes’ that nobody outside this bubble cares about.
madam president, the production of beef is without question the biggest cause of deforestation in the amazon, so it stands to reason that the quickest way to end deforestation in the amazon will be to reduce demand for brazilian beef. but now the eu wants to flood the european market with more south american beef every year through the mercosur deal. you couldn’t make it up. nineteen per cent of all soy consumed in the eu comes from brazil. yes, there are restrictions on soy production expansion in the amazon, but this has only served to increase pressure from cattle farming. pasture land in the savannah has been replaced with soya bean plantations, and because of this, these beef farmers have moved to the amazon. it is estimated that nearly a quarter of total annual amazon deforestation in recent years has been caused by these displaced beef farmers, so how in the name of god did the commission come to the conclusion in march in its sustainability criteria for biofuels that soya bean production should not be designated a high risk factor for indirect land use change? it’s just madness.
president, commissioner, i am glad to see you again in this important debate. i very much feel that across party lines in this european parliament there is unanimous indignation at what is happening in the amazon region. i therefore assume that unanimity will be sought and found and that the european union will have to show its teeth to solve this problem too. there are a number of ways, but one crucial way to deal with this is to fundamentally revise our trade policy, a trade policy that actually meets the sustainable development goals and stops deforestation. there are two very important ways: you have the sustainability chapters, the tsd chapters that really need to be enforced and become binding. but we as a parliament can also show that we have teeth, for example by saying before the debate: the deforestation must stop and the human rights violations in brazil must stop. that must be the basis of a future trade policy. let us put our teeth into it for years to come.
madam president, the wave of fires that has ravaged the amazon forest and its indigenous communities this year affects us all because of its human, environmental and climatic repercussions. it is also an economic aberration, because it seems to be confirmed that it is the result of a plan to encourage unsustainable development. i would therefore like to highlight the leticia pact for the amazon, signed on 6 september by bolivia, brazil, colombia, ecuador, guyana, peru and suriname, which ratifies the commitment of these countries to the system of international treaties to protect the environment and, in particular, the paris agreement. we must encourage this by ensuring that policies of prevention, eradication and reforestation are effective, by supporting them only against results and by preventing agricultural and livestock products whose production has damaged the amazon from finding their way onto any market, particularly the union. credibility, in this case, means putting values before interests.
madam president, we all watched in horror this summer as the catastrophic fires raged through the amazon, under the path of neglect and even perhaps the active encouragement of the bolsonaro regime. none of us are blameless in this matter. global demand for unsustainability, cheap and destructive beef production has driven the land clearance that is at the heart of the massive destruction. i endorse the resolution that has been put forward in response to this situation and i am happy that it is not shrinking from the issue of trade and the policies and politics that have led to the increase in deforestation recently. trade deals with governments that violate the rule of law, that punish ngos while encouraging illegal activities and that breach international agreements cannot be allowed to pass this house. there are arguments circulating with false narratives for the need for development clashing with the need to protect crucial ecosystems like the amazon. these need to be rejected for the distraction that they are. we all know there are no jobs on a dead planet, but there are also few jobs on massive plantations, many under foreign ownership, designed to produce maximum short—term profit at the cost of the long—term health and well—being for the people of brazil. i hope the chamber will reject them and endorse the resolution in front of us.
mr president, just to say at the outset that i welcome the opportunity, and i don’t think that this debate should be distilled down to an ideological debate about left or right. let’s be honest, bolsonaro is right-wing and is burning forestry, and morales is left-wing and is equally burning forestry. we need to talk about it in ethical terms: how we trade, and how we interrelate on the planet itself. and there is no point in saying it: it is profitable at the moment to burn the forests in amazonia, it’s profitable to burn the rainforests across the globe, because we are trying to satisfy the commodity markets. until such time as we accept this in europe, and while we continue to import soy beans and coffees and beef from these parts of the world, they will continue to burn the rainforests. let’s be very clear: if the mercosur agreement is ratified, it is europe that will tear up the paris agreement, not the others. we have ethical, moral obligations to insist that any trade deals comply with the vigours and rigours of the paris agreement, and we should insist on that at the very minimum before we sign any mercosur trade agreement.
mr president, the political situation in the north of south america is uncertain. venezuela is ruled by a dictator who is trying to export his supposedly blessed regime to neighboring countries like colombia. in colombia, a peace agreement has been concluded with the farc rebels, but several farc leaders, incited by venezuela, want to fight again. that would mean that the entire narco-industry would also be back in full swing, because the farc lived off the drug revenues. it is very important that we in the european union support the efforts of emilio archila. that's the man who's supposed to implement the peace agreement to prevent us from returning to death and violence. however, too many colombian farmers are still waiting for money promised to them to compensate them for planting alternative crops. what can the high representative do to improve and support this? it is of strategic importance for the european union to maintain a balance between the precarious situation in latin america, and therefore to work for peace in colombia and, above all, to curb the destructive effects of the narco-industry, an industry which amounts to millions here in europe. think of the people who are addicted, unfortunately. but think of the violence that goes with it. the violence and drug wars that are also occurring in our european cities like amsterdam. that is also what we are talking about when we talk about peace in colombia.
mr president, the 2016 peace agreement created real hope for colombians and it was a great achievement, but violence remains rife. human rights activists and trade unionists are still assassinated every year with impunity. the colombian government’s policy of greater militarisation and a piecemeal approach to the peace agreement’s implementation is also endangering the fragile peace process, and we have a role to play and we must play it. we must keep a special representative for the peace process and support the extension of the mandate of the un high commissioner for human rights in colombia. we have direct leverage through the human rights clauses within our free-trade agreement with colombia and we must use them, and we must also boost our support for transitional justice and engage the duque administration towards full truth and reconciliation. without more international engagement, there can be no peace in colombia and we can’t shy away. we have to engage with all the tools that we have at our disposal. this peace agreement is too important.
mr president, i wish we had a peace process in colombia, but it exists now really in name only and not because of venezuelans – who, incidentally, are leaving venezuela not because of maduro but because of the economic stranglehold being applied by the usa – nor because of the farc (revolutionary armed forces of colombia), who have largely held their peace, despite not having much to show for it, but precisely because of the government’s failure to honour the peace accord. land has not been distributed; there has been a deepening of the extreme social inequality; and hundreds of activists are being systematically murdered by right-wing paramilitaries who know that they have the government on their side. this is a reign of terror, and we, as a european parliament and a european union, can use the leverage that’s at our disposal. despite our explicit formal responsibilities in the peace agreement, our trade relations with colombia run contrary to that peace. we import palm oil and coal under the eu—colombia/peru/ecuador trade agreement because money is to be made. there’s leverage in that. environmental rights and workers’ rights are being trampled on. title ix of that agreement is supposed to protect those rights, but there are no legal mechanisms to enforce them, so they are being ignored by the government. we’ve got to act and use our leverage.
madam president, we have six weeks to brexit and, if nothing happens, the uk leaves on 31 october without a deal. but still many people in this house make the mistake of thinking and believing that we have a deal and that there are only some troublemakers on the uk side that are blocking it and they have to be brought to their senses. but all this is not true. we do not have a deal. we have just a draft that was dismissed three times in the house of commons and which the current uk government – a pretty legitimate government – doesn’t accept. there’s a saying that ‘it takes two to tango’. but unfortunately, it seems that we are dancing pretty much alone. so a sensible option, i feel, has to be for the ep to ask the european council to mandate the european commission to renegotiate the deal. otherwise, we will end up in six weeks with no deal, with very damaging consequences for our economies.
madam president, the number one thing we’ve got to do here is respect people’s positions and respect that the people of the uk voted to leave. those that voted to leave need to respect that this causes massive problems for people in the border areas. at the moment, the best solution available is the backstop. we must, however, be prepared for a crash-out. if this happens, then the principle of eu solidarity will be truly tested. up until now, this solidarity has come in the form of words. yet again today we hear from jean—claude juncker about solidarity. ireland exports a quarter of a million tonnes of beef to the uk every year. if we lose this market, then we will need to find other markets immediately. who better than our european neighbours? do we have the capacity? the answer is yes. if the uk crashes out, then ireland needs a new market. we imported, in the eu, over 300 000 tonnes of beef from the mercosur countries last year. in the case of no deal, we need the new commissioner for trade, phil hogan, to turn this off to a trickle if he really means solidarity.
madam president, firstly i would like to reaffirm my strong belief that an orderly withdrawal process is the best and preferred way forward for the european union, for the united kingdom and, to be specific, for our neighbours in the republic of ireland. i have always believed that this is in our interests and will work to achieve this end. however that withdrawal agreement must not damage the constitutional and economic integrity of the united kingdom and northern ireland’s place within it. the agreement must also meet basic democratic tests. the backstop endangers these fundamental principles. this house has confirmed on a number of occasions its adherence to the belfast agreement. indeed it was referenced this morning by president juncker and mr barnier. one of the core principles of that agreement is parity of esteem between the two traditions in northern ireland, meaning that citizens from both the unionist and nationalist traditions are treated and heard equally. just last week the former irish prime minister, bertie ahern, himself an architect of the belfast agreement, spoke out on the importance of parity of esteem, and is quoted as saying ‘any solution has to include the unionist people, because parity of esteem in the good friday agreement is both sides.’ let’s be clear, the letter sent to the european institutions and which gives rise to the statement in paragraph 5 of the resolution was not signed or supported by a single member of the northern ireland assembly from the unionist tradition. every unionist party which stood in the european elections did so on a platform of rejecting the backstop. a recent opinion poll says that 81% of unionists are against the backstop. there is a democratic problem with the backstop, mr barnier, and you cannot wash your hands of it. not only would northern ireland be subject to swathes of legislation with no control or representation, the union ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on constitutional affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, has decided to give a voice to the organisations of european citizens living in the united kingdom, including the irish. we have decided to hear the representations of british citizens living in europe as well. this parliament has a duty to give the europeans a voice. there are 600,000 of my countrymen living in the united kingdom, we have to give a voice to the northern irish, to the irish in the republic of ireland, we have to give a voice to the british living in europe. this is the place of democracy, this is the place where citizens must feel protected. we must also do this to reduce the distance between these institutions and the people of europe. we have also asked for permission to go as an afco committee to the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland, to go and give a signal of attention, to make it clear why this is the crux of the problem and what needs to be done to strengthen peace. the backstop is crucial, because the signals that are coming in - even to the british intelligence services - are very worrying, and it is also crucial to protect over there, because there will be a flexible border, our businesses and our agriculture: let's remember the mad cow story. with a flexible border and without a defence of the internal market, economic europe is at great risk and this parliament has a duty to defend citizens and businesses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching 31 october without british prime minister johnson putting a political proposal on the table that can be discussed credibly by european leaders. this raises the risk of a no-deal exit and increases the impression that this is now the preferred option of the conservative party leadership, while the corbyn-led opposition has successfully pushed through initiatives to block this disastrous prospect. the italian democratic party, which i represent in this debate, wants to defend the 3 million european citizens who live and work in the united kingdom, including over 700 000 italian citizens, as well as many of our businesses which have traded with the united kingdom for a long time, actively contributing to the wealth of our countries. if the united kingdom so requests, we will be prepared to support an extension of the article 50 deadline, but only as a clear tool to avoid a no-deal exit, with a clear perspective.
madam president, i wish to support the resolution and, in doing that, i also want to say that i accept the decision of the united kingdom in terms of leaving the european union. but, equally, there’s an obligation on the united kingdom to accept that a great democratic process took place on the island of ireland in 1998, where people, north and south, overwhelmingly supported the good friday agreement. in that agreement, we talk about an all-ireland economy and we talk about parity of esteem. just to put it in context: day in, day out, people cross an invisible border. they go about their daily lives. a crash—out brexit will have implications for that freedom – the freedom to go about commercial life, social life, cultural life and sporting life. so, in the context of this debate, i support the resolution and i ask the united kingdom, in particular, to accept that it has duty-bound responsibilities to uphold the integrity of the good friday agreement, bearing in mind that it is also a peace process. so when i accept the fact that the united kingdom wishes to leave the european union, i expect the united kingdom to do its duty and honour the good friday agreement. (applause)
madam president, i have represented wales in this european parliament for 20 years. it has been my greatest privilege and my greatest challenge, but now we face the most challenging times of all. westminster has failed wales. it does not work for the people. it is a parliament in turmoil. but i ask you to look beyond that at other things that are happening. over recent months, i have marched with many thousands of people all over wales in support of independence, and that support is growing. forty percent of people now saying they would support welsh independence if it meant that wales could remain in the european union. we have the right to determine our own future. to resolve the current crisis, we must put the whole thing back to the people in a referendum, and we need the time to do that. i will continue to work for that and for wales’s future in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me begin by expressing my deep dissatisfaction that two major negotiators - the european union and the united kingdom, both of whom claim to be major influencers in the western world - are unable to implement a directly democratic referendum. look at this house. there are two big camps. some say brexit is a good thing; the other says brexit is bad. my opinion on this: it is completely irrelevant what they say. it doesn't matter what i say. the only thing that matters is what a majority of the british people say. and it is our sacred duty to show respect to a majority of the british people who have made a clear choice. so please use the time until 31 october to come together, negotiate an outcome that is efficient, professional, fair and show-able, and stop this kasperl theatre!
madam president, it’s all so easy to pretend, as many people have here, that brexit is all about the crazy brits. if brexit is about anything, it’s about the failure of the neoliberal ideology entrenched in eu institutions, thanks to lisbon and nice, and, ironically, also entrenched in the ideology of the ruling classes in britain. it’s about soaring rents, declining wages, privatisation and undermining of public services, conditions that exist in many countries throughout the european union. let’s not lie about it – it is about democracy. you know what: the uk might not be doing too well in the democracy stakes, but neither is the european union. so, while i don’t care about the establishment in britain cannibalising itself, the people on the island of ireland have to live our lives and we cannot have a hard border. we have to have our human rights respected and not sacrificed. if people here really believe in solidarity and a peaceful and socially just europe, as i do, we have to abandon the road that this european union is on and abandon neoliberalism.
madam president, in time historians might describe brexit as the incredible sulk by the self-styled incredible hulk and his allies, who want to leave the european union, come hell or high water, on 31 october, regardless of the consequences for people, for prosperity or for peace on the island of ireland. for that reason, we are so grateful in ireland for the solidarity of the eu26, articulated so well by president juncker and mr barnier here this morning. mr juncker said that they are standing in solidarity with the most affected states and showing unity of purpose. it couldn’t be stronger or clearer. mr barnier also outlined very clearly the necessity for the backstop. there is another consequence of brexit, and that is that after the good friday agreement, the relationship between ireland and the united kingdom grew and became friendlier, culminating with the queen’s visit to ireland in croke park a few years ago. that now has been replaced, unfortunately, by tension and suspicion. i hope, however, that if the united kingdom asks for an extension of article 50, and i’m encouraged by what i heard here today, it will be granted. if only, number one, to give mr johnson the time to come forward with the abundance of solutions he told our prime minister he had for the backstop, and maybe also to give time to the good people of great britain to take back control from the brexit buccaneers who want to leave, regardless of deal or no deal.
madam president, yesterday i heard mr barnier speak about a fragile peace. he talked about meeting women in ireland who cross the border every day for work. they said to him ‘we don’t want it to start up again.’ i appeal to mr farage, and indeed to mr johnson, visit the border, hear their stories, they are heartfelt and they are real. in northern ireland the tensions are always present. violence is never far away. my irish colleagues clare bailey and vincent martin have first-hand experience of this. they proposed a confirmatory vote for those who live in northern ireland: let the uk exit the backstop whenever it wants but first put a question to the people of northern ireland – best of both worlds in a free-trade area or the uk only? let them decide. the poet seamus heaney once wrote ‘believe that a further shore is reachable from here. believe in miracles …’. like heaney, we have to believe in miracles, but we must not lose hope that a solution can be found.
madam president, what many forget and others choose to ignore is that beneath the soundbites and the strong—man politics, there are real people, women and men, families, whose livelihoods and business – and indeed very safety – are at risk, as well as the peace on which these livelihoods are built. this european union, this democracy, has been clear from day one that it is determined to do all it can, deal or no deal, to avoid the need for a border and to protect the peace process. remember, an international treaty underpins this peace process, and co—guarantors. we can never forget that. we know that any additional ideas put forward by the uk will be strongly welcomed and examined by the european commission. however, this european parliament will not give its consent to any withdrawal agreement that does not contain the safeguards outlined in the backstop. to date, the backstop is the only solution on the table that avoids any physical infrastructure. as the great mr john hume, a former office holder both of this parliament and westminster, once said: ‘when people are divided, the only solution is agreement.’
author. mr president, good work, colleagues! after decades of human rights abuses, of journalists being arrested, of journalists being imprisoned, of interfering in the internal affairs of many countries, including bulgaria, of it being clear to everyone that mr. erdogan is a pure and simple dictator, finally in this room you found out that he is a human rights abuser. as they say, remarkable political acumen! - congratulations to you. as the wise bulgarian people said, "better late than never". yes, erdogan is a dictator. yes, it violates the voting rights. yeah, he's putting reporters in prison. we all know that thing, and you keep giving it money. billions have been poured into turkey so that it can continue to do these things - billions of european money, european taxpayers' money. it's a strange hypocrisy, which i don't understand. i'll give you another example. at the moment, a large german concern, volkswagen, is negotiating with turkey to move its plant there, in violation of human rights, in illegal state aid, in the fact that turkey pollutes the air and does not comply with any environmental standards. another european company is pouring billions into it. this is unacceptable, wrong. it's hypocrisy and double standards.
mr president, i join my colleagues in condemning this action, the removal of democratically elected mayors in turkey. i think we are witnessing a broader phenomenon of violation of basic human rights in turkey. and it should be said that turkey has committed itself to respecting these rights, it is a party to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms within the council of europe. instead of respecting these basic human rights, we see false accusations, we see convictions, and of course violations of the most basic rights, not just the ones i've talked about here, whether it's freedom of speech, the right to due process, but of course violations of the right to self-government. turkey has also signed the charter of local self-government, which is part of the council of europe's circuit. within the council of europe, the instruments that the states within the council of europe can put pressure on turkey are limited. but we have the tools, and let's try to use them.
mr president, the removal of three recently elected hdp mayors by the turkish authorities follows a previous two-and-a-half-year-long government appointed trustee rule in kurdish municipalities, which not only severely circumvented local democracy, but also devastated municipal infrastructures with embezzlement, cronyism and bribery. since their election in may, the hdp mayors had worked to bring their municipalities back to a functional state by paying debts and restoring essential services, including the payment of workers’ salaries. i am proud to be a friend of hdp. i have visited diyarbakir many times and i was shocked to see the militarisation of the city under akp administration, the town hall surrounded by razor wire and barricades, and armoured vehicles and soldiers everywhere. i tried to imagine if this was my city and i was simply trying to pay my council tax; we would be outraged. these communities need our solidarity, which is why i’m encouraging labour mayors to join a twinning project with kurdish mayors. as the removed mayors say, ‘we feel empowered when we hear voices of solidarity from across borders’.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this timely debate, which unfortunately proves that the concerns previously discussed in this plenary on the rule of law situation in turkey are still relevant. turkey’s local elections in march and june witnessed a voter turnout that the people of turkey can rightly be proud of. however, ensuring that democracy goes well beyond the balloting process on voting day requires a political environment with freedom of expression and respect for plurality. it is central that elected representatives are able to exercise their political mandate freely and without fear of repression, dismissal or detention. following the march elections, we saw the decision to declare elected mayors ineligible to assume office and to give mayoral mandates to the candidates with the second highest number of votes. as high representative mogherini and commissioner hahn expressed, this undermines the electoral process and goes against the core aim of ensuring that the will of the people prevails. the respect for democratic outcomes was further put into question with the suspension last month of the mayors of the cities of mardin, van and diyarbakir, who were replaced by state governors. this deprives voters of political representation at local level and seriously damages democracy. turkey must repeal measures that inhibit local democracy. this follows clearly from the recommendations of the venice commission and from turkey’s obligations as a member of the council of europe. as we have said to the turkish authorities multiple times, we are conscious of turkey’s security challenges and its right to fight terrorism. however, those security challenges cannot justify dismissals for political reasons, applying broad anti-terror or criminal legislation. unfortunately, the negative developments in the rule of law are not limited to the recent local elections. there are still a large number of journalists, writers, academics, politicians and human rights defenders in detention in turkey, for instance, osman kavala, who has been detained for almost two years, or selahattin demirtaş whose case was heard yesterday by the grand chamber of the european court of human rights. we’ve also seen a dramatic increase in prosecutions for insulting the president, as exemplified by the case of canan kaftancioğlu. the european union has consistently called upon turkey to ensure the respect of fundamental freedoms in accordance with turkey’s obligations as a candidate country and as a member of the council of europe. this is not just about turkey’s status as a candidate country. it is also about the kind of country turkish citizens want and deserve, a country with stronger institutions, a more inclusive country and a country where they can all find their place and contribute to turkish society’s collective progress. in the european union we will continue to work to support a strong, free, safe, prosperous and democratic turkey as a key neighbour and partner in our region, not just as a candidate country. it is in our shared interest to contribute to this and all turkish citizens should know that they can count on the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. – the turkish interior ministry’s removal of three democratically elected mayors in the major municipalities of the kurdish regions due to terrorism-related charges is worrying. all three mayors were active members in people’s democratic party (hdp), an opposition party to the ruling government. the motive of the violation of the rights of these mayors remains unclear. nonetheless, it fits well into the pattern of persecution and consolidation of power against the kurdish population and opposition to the standing government. the turkish authorities made a regrettable decision, which stands as a demonstration of ignorance of free and fair expression of the will of the turkish people. the countries around the world and the eu, call on the turkish authorities to reinstate the mayors of diyarbakır, van and mardin, if the charges against them are proven unfounded. the mayors must be afforded fair a due legal process.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on myanmar/burma, in particular the situation of the rohingya (2019/2822 ((rsp))
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i rise as co-author of this important resolution, a resolution that is above and beyond. i recently, a few months ago, met with the prime minister of bangladesh, sheikh hasina wajed. we talked about how this poor, but large country (larger than russia in terms of population) has taken in hundreds of thousands of refugees from the rohingya people of myanmar. so it's not just a problem in myanmar/burma, but also in the neighboring countries. i think our voice today on this issue is needed, it's important, it's going to be heard. this is another resolution by the european parliament on this subject, but it is never enough to talk about human rights and respect for something as fundamental as the right to profess one's own religion.
author. – mr president, this is not the first time this house has debated the situation of the rohingya in myanmar, has called for a stop to the human tragedy, and urged the world to take action. this is not a crisis that began with the exodus in august 2017: over a million rohingya refugees have fled violence in myanmar in successive waves of displacement since the early 1990s. the vast majority of those who have fled and reached bangladesh are women and children, and more than 40% are under age 12. many walked for days through the forest to reach safety, including pregnant women, young children, the sick and the elderly. too many children are growing up in kutupalong and nayapara refugee camps in the cox’s bazar district. the refugee settlement has become the largest refugee camp in the world, with more than 600 000 people living in an area of just 13 km2. for many children, those are the only places they have ever known, and they are vulnerable to disease and lack sufficient access to education. this is heart—breaking. the world that is watching owes these children a duty of care. we all remember that in 2018 the un independent fact—finding mission concluded that crimes against humanity and possibly genocide had been committed against the rohingya. in its further report in 2019 the un fact—finding mission reported severe ongoing sexual and gender—based violence, including systematic rape, gang rape and forced sexual acts by the myanmar military and security forces against rohingya women, children and transgender people. yet, the authorities in myanmar refused to investigate seriously human rights violations against rohingya and to hold the perpetrators accountable. not only that, myanmar continues to deny that these rights violations ever occurred in the first place – claims that are contradicted by extensive good-quality evidence and individual witness accounts. the highest-ranking military, who supervised the attacks against the rohingya population, remain in their posts. myanmar has so far refused to allow a un human rights council fact—finding mission to enter the country. despite the government of myanmar having withdrawn cooperation with the un special rapporteur, the special rapporteur continues to seek to engage and assist with human rights issues. so it is high time for action. the council has prolonged its restrictive measures in place in myanmar for one year. these measures include asset freezes and travel bans on 14 senior military and other security officials of myanmar. the decision of the international criminal court to open a preliminary investigation into crimes, under the court’s jurisdiction, committed against the rohingya population is a welcome step towards accountability. peace does not come without justice. the perpetrators of these most serious crimes must be held accountable.
author. – mr president, since hundreds and thousands of rohingya were forced out of their homes through mass atrocities and repeated acts of humiliation and violence in myanmar, nearly one million people are still living in camps in cox’s bazar, struggling for safety, survival and dignity as refugees in bangladesh. more than 25 000 children are out of school and 97% of those aged 15 to 18 do not attend any type of educational facility. they need our action and our support now more than ever. sadly their plight has fallen down our list of priorities, and, as one of the instigators of this resolution, i urge the eu: we must find a solution and end this crisis. bangladesh cannot be left alone to cope with large numbers of refugees. we have to engage in dialogue with our partners in the association of southeast asian nations (asean) to ensure the rohingya people’s rights are upheld, so they can start living their lives normally, where women and girls are safe and children have access to education.
author. – mr president, the latest un fact-finding mission on myanmar warned that the approximately 600 000 rohingya who remain in myanmar live under the threat of genocide. the crimes against humanity and war crimes against ethnic communities by the myanmar army continue, and the army and the government enjoy impunity for their crimes. the rohingya in myanmar are being discriminated against and denied their basic rights, and are subjected to arbitrary arrests, lack of freedom of movement and limited health care. the more than 700 000 rohingya refugees in bangladesh, who have fled the violence and genocide in myanmar, are also facing serious problems as the refugee camps are overcrowded, have unsanitary conditions and provide limited access to maternal and health care for women and children. the children lack access to education and there is a rising problem of human and sex trafficking. eu and other international organisations must work towards gaining access to the conflict areas and places of segregation in myanmar, in order to deliver aid and to monitor the situation on the ground. we must continue stressing the need for myanmar to give citizenship and full civil rights to the rohingya. investigation of the human rights violations must take place and perpetrators must be held accountable. the eu must seriously consider using the tools it has – by way of extending entry bans, targeted sanctions and freezing of assets – to influence the myanmar government and military to stop these atrocities, and should finally review the trade preferences that benefit myanmar.
author. - mr president, as the author of this resolution, i too want to stress the importance of the european parliament speaking out against the violation of the human rights of the rohingya people, but also against sexual violence against women and children. it is a fundamental issue and, to report, it is indeed important. but the european union has to do more than denounce, and that is why i call on members to please reconsider again what they did not consider in the negotiations of this joint resolution, namely to take account of the report of the international and independent mission which refers to and urges the international community to end relations with the military forces of myanmar, but also with the vast network of companies that these forces control and on which they depend. the international mission considers that the revenues these military forces obtain through domestic and foreign trade agreements have significantly enhanced their ability to commit serious human rights violations with impunity. the european union has preferential trade relations. human rights are not for sale. please, i appeal to you. they include this, because more than reporting is taking responsibility.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in the field of human rights, the european union is the motor and is the motor of the world. i know of no other democratic institution that speaks so often about human rights and calls for the investigation of war crimes as the european parliament and other european institutions. and why are we doing this? because we are not indifferent to the fate of tens or hundreds of thousands of people who are suffering in myanmar today. this is not the first resolution, it's the seventh. and i have to say that i negotiate very often for the european people's party similar human rights resolutions, but rarely do the parties agree on everything as they did in this resolution, which clearly calls for an investigation into the crimes committed by the myanmar soldiers in the rohingya. we really want to address the situation of hundreds of thousands of people who today are without any education, who are without any help, who are in appalling conditions somewhere on islands or in parts reserved for them by neighboring states. we don't want this situation to get any worse. we want an open dialogue, which may not be to the liking of the myanmar government, but we want to talk to them about resolving this humanitarian crisis and the whole situation, and that is why we are calling on the european commission, which has the effective tools in hand, to really start doing something about the rohingya situation. to be the engine that takes other states and tries to create something that will finally address this situation after seven years.
the s&d group is calling for the immediate release of all the prisoners of conscience, including the most vulnerable, and for the release of all those who have been sentenced to death. a year ago, these same experts reported genocidal acts against the rohingya. since august 2017, 740,000 rohingya have been forced to flee myanmar to bangladesh. the rohingya today represent the most persecuted minority and the largest stateless group in the world. it is of course important to highlight these injustices, which we have talked about a lot. bringing these crimes to light is important to us, but it is not enough. we therefore call on the union, but also on the international community, to call for those responsible for these crimes to be held to account. we call for the eu and the international community to be able to impose sanctions, in particular against the 100 officers involved in these crimes and named in the un report. we call for a review of the trade relationship with myanmar in the light of this crime against humanity.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the rohingya are one of the ethnic and religious groups in myanmar that were not given official status as an ethnic identity, and, as a result, not issued with identity documents. since 2011, the ethnic conflict with the rohingya, fuelled by religious and ethnic leaders, has been escalated by the myanmar military, who are not under the control of the government. allegations of crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing have been raised by the un secretary-general, and in 2017 i also brought the issue to the executive of liberal international through an urgency resolution. the cooperation and support of bangladesh has been welcomed, but i have felt it necessary this week to complain to the bangladeshi ambassador about recent restrictions to rights and freedoms at the camp in cox’s bazar. i believe that the rohingya should have full rights to citizenship in myanmar. it has been their home and country for generations. they can’t possibly be asked to state that they are foreigners. the return of the rohingya refugees and internally displaced persons in a safe and dignified manner, as citizens of myanmar, the reconstruction of their villages and the restitution of their land are all imperative. i want to see the myanmar government fulfil its obligations under international law to protect all individuals on its soil, whatever their race or religion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the rohingya tragedy is becoming another of the many unresolved human rights issues which the un can add to its list. bangladesh, clearly struggling with its own challenges, has been left with the fallout of its neighbour’s ghastly actions. the process of proof of identity – cataloguing that of refugees – has resulted in 3 450 people being given approval by the myanmar authorities to return. at this rate, it would take bangladesh hundreds of years to get through close to a million displaced people on their doorstep, and those identified would have to be willing to return without a guarantee of their safety and security. the un must take meaningful measures to restore the basic human rights and freedoms of the rohingya, whose ancestors have lived in rakhine state for close to 1 000 years, and those guilty of crimes against humanity must be brought to justice. i call on this house to stand by our principles and support this resolution.
mr president, two years on and time stands still for over a million persecuted rohingya refugees who are unable to return to a land that is their home, after the violence they have faced. the recently failed attempt to repatriate refugees to myanmar demonstrates the inadequacy of the return conditions. the myanmar government must create conditions that can enable safe, dignified and voluntary returns. according to the international rescue committee, there are a million rohingya refugees surviving purely on humanitarian aid. so i urge the eu and the international community to create a medium—term plan to deal with the impact of this crisis, and to call on myanmar to address the root causes, including systematic persecution and violence. there must be no military impunity for the grave human rights violations committed against the rohingya community. there must be sustainable conditions to enable the community to thrive, and not merely to survive, after the suffering they have faced. finally, i’d like to pay tribute to my labour colleagues afzal khan and wajid khan for all their work on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! undoubtedly, christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. there are now 128 countries where christians are persecuted. the european parliament has so far been concerned - and i hope it will be even more so in this term - with the defence of the rights of christians, but if we want to be credible in defending the rights of christians, we must also pay attention to the persecution of other religious groups. undoubtedly, one of the most persecuted religious and ethnic groups is the rohingya people. the persecution that started decades ago has unfortunately continued even after the democratization of myanmar. we all hoped that after 2015, when the national league for democracy took power in myanmar, that this persecution would stop. sadly, more than 700,000 people have been driven from myanmar to bangladesh since 2017, and the 600,000 who remain in myanmar continue to be persecuted. myanmar is potentially a very rich country because of its deposits, its natural wealth. it is also a very important country geostrategically, hence the increased activity of world powers such as china, russia, the united states and the european union, but myanmar will not regain its rightful place in the international community unless it resolves this issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the office of the prosecutor at the international criminal court in the hague last july launched the procedure for investigating crimes against humanity in connection with the situation of the rohingya in myanmar, which is one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world, and in which, once again, children are the most affected. according to unicef, as of july 2019, more than 500,000 rohingya refugee children were in bangladesh in dire sanitary conditions, exposed to the risk of violence, exploitation and abuse of all kinds. since the 1990s, many rohingya children born in myanmar have not received any birth certificates, in full violation of the un convention on the rights of the child, to which myanmar is also a signatory. a denial of civil rights that implies the impossibility of obtaining identity documents, of having access to health care and education and that also creates obstacles to access to refugee status, thus risking to create a generation of ghost children. the european union must therefore take firm action to ensure that the rohingya population's fundamental rights are fully respected.
mr. chairman, please! a report by independent un experts was released on monday, revealing very disturbing information about the situation of the rohingya people in myanmar. the threat of genocide for the remaining population seems greater than ever. the report also concludes that so far the myanmar government has done nothing to break the cycle of violence. therefore, the international community, led by the european union, the un and humanitarian organizations, must take concerted action to put strong pressure on those responsible for the crimes and persecution. they must be held accountable and held accountable for their actions. in addition, humanitarian and human rights organisations should be allowed access to the country as soon as possible to provide assistance to those in need and to monitor the situation on the ground.
mr. chairman, we are coming to a subject that has been on our tables repeatedly. we're talking about expelling people, humiliating them, violating basic human rights and committing crimes against humanity. today, more than 600,000 people are threatened by actions that truly border on genocide. it is an unprecedented situation and i think we must help bangladesh first, which hosts 1 million people on its territory, in cooperation with asean. of course we must call for immediate assistance for refugees, for an investigation into these crimes and for swift action by the european institutions, because in dealing with myanmar our voice must be heard clearly and so that these crimes against humanity are investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice.
member of the commission. – mr president, it has been over two years since the horrible events in the rakhine state of myanmar forced more than 750 000 rohingya to flee to bangladesh. there are now more than one million rohingya refugees in cox’s bazar, making it the largest refugee camp in the world. this is a major refugee crisis with a significant risk of radicalisation inside the camps. the situation inside the camps is deteriorating. more than 500 000 children remain without access to education. the prospects for a rapid return of the refugees into myanmar, in a safe, dignified and voluntary manner, are increasingly unlikely. this was shown by the failure of the recent second attempt for the repatriation of 3 450 refugees, since no one agreed to return to myanmar due to the lack of conditions conducive for returns. the situation, in addition to being an urgent humanitarian crisis, is evolving into a longer-term political and security challenge. therefore, we need to intensify discussions on the prospects for refugees, the cox’s bazar security situation, the livelihood and education opportunities in the camps, the access to health and justice, the impact on the host communities and, of course, the joint response plan funding. the european union will continue to call for sustainable solutions for the rohingya, and for the myanmar authorities to ensure that conditions are met for safe, dignified and voluntary returns. this can be achieved only by implementing the recommendations of the advisory commission on rakhine state, which the government of myanmar has endorsed. these issues were raised with the myanmar government at the human rights dialogue held in yangon in june 2019, co-chaired by the eu special representative for human rights, eamon gilmore. within the ongoing everything but arms enhanced monitoring, and all relevant bilateral meetings, the european union is urging myanmar to contribute to the creation of conditions conducive to the safe, voluntary and dignified return of rohingya refugees to their place of origin. at the same time, the european union will continue advocating for the accountability of those who have committed serious abuses of human rights. the union has already imposed restrictive measures on 14 individuals and will continue to review regularly the sanctions regime. in conclusion, the european union will continue to help alleviate the plight of the rohingya in bangladesh and will keep engaging with the myanmar authorities to facilitate their return.
in writing. the situation of the rohingya constitutes a major humanitarian crisis, with 740,000 rohingya having fled to bangladesh and some 276,000 reportedly living in camps. beyond the emotion naturally aroused by this tragedy, it is important to address this issue in all its aspects, without denying, in particular, the growing influence of radical islam on this population. didn't the leader of the islamic state himself in 2014 describe the rakhine region as a key to jihad? it is clear that the european union, which provides development aid, humanitarian aid and trade preferences to myanmar, has a certain say in human rights violations in the country. this is not only the case for the rohingya, but also for christians, who according to a 2016 report by the u.s. commission on international religious freedom, would also suffer a number of grievances. in july, a protestant pastor who testified before us president donald trump was also reportedly prosecuted in his country. all these elements should therefore be considered without bias and with the support of victims at heart.
author. – mr president, i pay tribute to the women of iran, to their courage, resolve and determination, not only in the fight for women’s rights, but also in speaking out in defence of the whole society against the regime. one of the major opposition movements in iran, the national council of resistance of iran, is led by a woman as well. recently, many women were sentenced to a long time in prison for just protesting against the compulsory wearing of the hijab, but also women with dual nationality, both eu and iranian, as well, arm in arm with men, are suffering because of persecution there. we appeal for their immediate release.
writer. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. last week was filled with reports of sahar khodayari's horrific and terribly unnecessary death as a result of the injuries she sustained after setting herself on fire. she did it in desperation after being arrested and risking brutal prison time for wanting to watch a football match, something so natural and something that all humans should have a right to. it is such a terrible tragic event and my solidarity and the solidarity of our parliament with her family is there today. we think about her. the debate today concerns the situation of women's rights activists and of imprisoned eu citizens with dual nationality in iran. we are now sending a clear message that the situation of women who are fighting for human rights in iran must be improved. many have been imprisoned simply for speaking out against discrimination. we are talking about cases where there are human rights defenders, women's rights defenders, lawyers, journalists, trade unionists and environmentalists who are imprisoned without trial year after year, month after month with great suffering as a result. we are bringing up the cases of mojgan keshavarz, nasrin sotoudeh and narges mohammadi. we reiterate our clear demand that ahmad reza jalali and other detained dual nationals be released immediately and that they be given fair treatment.
mr president, we are debating an urgent resolution calling for the immediate release of all women activists convicted in iran and also for the release of the dual european and iranian citizens who are currently in dramatic conditions in iranian prisons, without communication or access to their lawyers or their families. the last three women convicted were for a video that went viral on march 8, in which they removed their headscarves, handed out flowers and told women that they wished they could walk together in iran, some with headscarves, others without, but as a result of a free and personal decision. this was their crime, a crime considered as an attack against national security, for which they have been sentenced to more than twenty-three years in prison, in a trial without guarantees, without having access to the choice of lawyer. the iranian authorities have launched a campaign of harassment and persecution against women activists, against women lawyers defending their rights, against women journalists reporting on their events. and they have said that they are going to move on, that they feel that they have already lived in a prison for too long: what is their country for them. that they will defend their right, their freedom and the future of their daughters. that is why it is important that this parliament sends a very clear message today. on the one hand, to the commission, to tell it that in the political dialogue with iran, the european union must have a political priority, which is the defence of the human rights of iranian women and girls. but also a very clear message to iranian women, to tell them that they are not alone, that the european parliament is with them and that we will stand with all those who are resisting today, in prisons and in the streets.
author. – mr president, the iranian authorities continue to criminalise human rights activism. journalists, lawyers and activists are constantly facing harassment, arrests and prosecution for their peaceful work. with this resolution, the european parliament is calling upon iran to suppress all these sentences and immediately and unconditionally release all human rights defenders and all eu-iran dual nationals who are arbitrarily detained. three iranian women appeared in a video while protesting against the compulsory wearing of veils. the protest was peaceful and advocated for women’s right to choose whether to wear the hijab or not. these three women have been convicted and sentenced to between 16 and 23 years’ imprisonment. the authorities reasoned that they were acting against national security and promoting moral corruption and prostitution. this case is a clear example of an extremely disproportionate punishment. moreover, these women were arrested although they were solely exercising their right of freedom of expression – one of the core rights of every human being. in another case, an iranian woman set herself on fire in protest at her arrest because she wanted to watch a football match in a stadium. besides this violation of women’s rights, the joint resolution also reacts to iranian measures taken against several eu-iran dual nationals. these persons have been arrested on the basis of vague or unspecified charges and sentenced without a fair trial. it is clear that iran is severely violating human rights, and we – as a democratic body that represents those imprisoned european citizens – have a moral duty to support them and to react in a resolute manner. this house is constituted to protect all european citizens wherever they are. iran is one of the founding states of the united nations, and has ratified multiple legally binding treaties under international law, focusing on respect for human rights. however, reality shows that they don’t respect these obligations. with this resolution, we urge the iranian authorities to halt their repressive actions and to implement the internationally agreed standards. colleagues, please show your support for these arbitrarily imprisoned women and european union citizens, and send a strong message to the authorities in iran.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am probably one of the few mps here who got to meet human rights activist and lawyer nasrin sotudeh in tehran in 2013 after she was released. three years later, she was convicted again and arrested again in 2018. in march 2019, she was sentenced to 33 years in prison for supporting women who opposed and protested against the forced veil. we must not remain silent in the face of such outrageous judgments! no matter what else happens in iran, we must not be silent! international solidarity is needed for each and every one of these women, including those whose names we do not know. i would like to say to the iranian government that we cannot put aside the progress of civilisation in the long term, we cannot stop it. you can delay it, you can lock up its representatives, you can silence them - you can do all that, but the idea of freedom and equality, you cannot eradicate - neither by law nor by force. it's because that's what makes us human, that's what gives us our universal rights. whether in my hometown of dresden, hong kong or tehran, the future of iran is women, nobody else, and even a revolutionary leader will not change that.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr. chairman, it is unacceptable that women are threatened with jail for trying to watch a game in the stadium, long prison sentences for peacefully protesting an imposed dress code by giving flowers on women's day. prison sentences are also punished by flogging. of particular concern are the frequent arrests and charges against women, often eu citizens, who are fighting for the right to choose and live the way they want. even when faced with such unreasonable charges and sentences, all prisoners must have the right to counsel and health care in prisons. fundamental human rights must not be alienated under the pretext of different traditional and cultural customs. they must be indispensable, no matter where they are required. iran must finally bring its legislation into line with the human rights conventions to which it is a signatory, and the european union must actively keep this issue on the agenda of all bilateral and multilateral relations with iran.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the situation of women in iran is becoming increasingly worrying and this parliament cannot but denounce it. one of the latest alarming cases is the tragic death of 29-year-old sahar jodayarí, who decided to set herself on fire in the face of a possible six-month prison sentence for trying to enter a football match disguised as a man. iran is the only country in the world that bans women from entering stadiums, but of course, this is not far from it the only discrimination. since january last year, at least 32 people have been arrested and 10 imprisoned for protesting against the compulsory veiling, which is a clear violation of their right to demonstrate as an exercise of freedom of expression. we therefore demand the release of all those arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned for exercising their fundamental rights. in addition, iranian women continue to be heavily discriminated against in matters of personal status related to marriage, divorce, inheritance and the issue of children, and are marginalized in the economic sphere. discrimination in the public and private sectors must come to an end. we hope that our appeal here today will serve to make the protection of women human rights defenders in iran a priority for the european union and its member states. we all want the nuclear agreement with iran to work and to be viable, and i think we are making a lot of efforts from the european union to make that happen. the war drums must be kept away and we must put all our energy into making this work, but this must be closely linked to the defence of human rights in the country. we can't put that off because now we need the nuclear plan to go through. the two must go hand in hand, and that is why we are calling, in an idea also that feminism permeates the whole of the european union's foreign policy, for the rights of women in iran to be given priority in all our relations with the country.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, while we know that women play a prominent role in iran in a way that would put saudi arabia to shame, we also know that iran has no defence on many of these issues relating to women’s rights, and things must change. but to erase all mention of the illegal us sanctions against iran is to ignore the world that these women and children must live in. we all know that economic sanctions hit the poor. it’s a slow form of torture to hit the weak – children and women – the most. to claim to champion the human rights of a people, while refusing even to acknowledge, let alone criticise, a brutal economic sanctions regime against the same people speaks volumes about the political nature of that concern for human rights. iran is under siege from many international players at the moment and we need to work with them to help them out of the impasse. it’s in our interest too. the motion, as it stands, is just another political weapon against iran and, unless our amendments are accepted, my group will be opposing this motion.
mr president, what is the point of this usual debate in the european parliament, on thursday mornings, in the plenary, about flagrant violations of fundamental rights? to express the priorities and values of the citizens we represent and to determine the foreign policy of the commission and of the european union as a whole, with a resolution which, in this case - and it is rare - has unanimity in expressing the condemnation it deserves of the systematic and flagrant violation of women's rights and their discrimination in iran. horrific cases have been reported eloquently: a woman who commits suicide dramatically after attending a football stadium disguised as a man, because she knows she will be condemned; women who suffer inhuman and degrading punishment systematically. the european union has made an effort to maintain the iran nuclear agreement, it has exercised its diplomacy, making its priorities known. this does not diminish, but on the contrary, strengthens the moral authority to demand in foreign policy towards iran the cessation of the systematic violation and persecution of women's rights.
mr president, i too stand shoulder to shoulder with women struggling for human rights and equality in iran. i fully support calling for the release of those women in prison for their political and protest activity to advance women’s rights in iran, and indeed their right to wear whatever they like. and i absolutely condemn the death penalty, including on those under age. but i have to say that i do find the motion imbalanced at a time when tone is important, at a time when iran is under siege from many international players. we had somebody come in here today and tell us that iran is trying to provoke a war with the usa – when it’s the usa which has torn up the nuclear deal, when it is the usa that is crippling the economy of iran and causing immense harm to women and children. so, in that sense, we all know iran has to change – they’re not the only ones – but of course they know this and i welcome the fact that there is now an equal number of women as clerics in the iranian parliament. i’m looking forward to a time when there are more, but this motion won’t help unless we include the amendments on the sanctions.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say to the council: at the next council meeting, migration will not be a major issue on the agenda, and this despite the fact that yesterday the ministers of the interior were unable to agree on even a small transitional solution for the central mediterranean. the council and the commission are actually saying something very frightening: they are praising the libyan coastguard and their efforts to save lives. i think that's cynical. because people are then returned to blackmail, violence and torture. do you also consider this to be part of our european way of life? i would like to see an end to this form of cooperation with the libyan coastguard. stop punishing private rescuers! because what we really need are safe routes, effective asylum procedures and sustainable cooperation with the countries of origin based on our values. that's your obligation.
madam president, dear minister tytti tuppurainen, mr chief negotiator, dear michel barnier, you have shown beautifully, dear michel barnier, that the proposals of boris johnson are not up to the task. i fully share the concerns expressed by my colleague, naomi long, about the future of northern ireland. we need an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, but not at any price for the other 27 member states. only the best interests of our fellow citizens must prevail. and i remember, dear mr nigel farage, your resignation, your liquidation the day after the referendum. i would like to commend the commission for its work in maintaining the cohesion of our europe, a united europe, open to dialogue but firm in its intentions. i would like to stress that as the date of 31 october approaches, it is also time to reflect on the nature of the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. we have the utmost respect for the british people.
mr president, the british prime minister is indeed playing the blame game. he has tabled a proposal which he knows is unworkable, hoping that the eu will reject it so that he can blame the eu for doing so. but actually, we don’t need to take the eu’s word for it. take northern ireland, the very territory it is supposed to help. there, the manufacturers’ association, the retailers’ organisation, the farmers, the trade unions and every political party other than the dup has said this proposal is unworkable for them. so we are going to come to a no-deal situation and under british law, johnson has to ask the european council for an extension. i urge you to grant that extension. not just to avoid the catastrophe of no deal but to give time to the british democratic processes, be that a general election or a referendum or both, to take place over the next few months, and they will lead. let’s not forget now: we have a minority government. every single opposition party in the house of commons now wants another referendum on brexit. that will lead to the public having a final say on the actual brexit deal on the table and you will see: the outcome may be the right one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said in my last speech, the british still have time to get their heads straight and return to the european port. now, mr. johnson, you need to clear your head and stop dizzying the partridge. what do you want? what do you want? to stay, to reach an exit agreement in extremis or to go off on a rampage, which would be harmful to everyone? we are prepared to face a no-deal break. the commission has been preparing for months and my government has taken measures to mitigate the effects of the uk's withdrawal and to preserve the rights and interests of spanish citizens and businesses. we hope that an agreed solution will be reached in the coming days, but our political agenda cannot be stopped. we have a lot of work to do. we must develop the new strategic agenda and agree on an ambitious multiannual financial framework in line with the expectations of citizens and the political commitments of the union. and finally, to strengthen europe's determination to lead the fight against the climate threat and to accelerate the implementation of the paris agreement.
mr president, i’m an irish citizen. i don’t want to see a hard border and i want to see the good friday agreement respected but every time i listen to mr verhofstadt, i see the arrogance of the eu institutions displayed in a manner which i find incredibly unhelpful. in any case, the european council meeting is going to be discussing the strategic agenda for the next five years, and i have to hand it to you for the no—holds—barred approach taken to the section promoting europe’s interests and values in the world. our government, where neutrality is incredibly important to our citizens, like to say that this is kind of about peace and apple pie, that we join up to the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) and it doesn’t really mean anything but, actually, your strategic agenda is very clear about the imperial direction in which the eu is going. talking about defending the interests of the eu, the need to be more assertive, to exercise our influence, work with nato, enhance our defence investment capability. is it any wonder that the arms industry say they are our partners, not our vendors? this is an absolute disgrace. if we want to deal with the problems of the world, stop interfering and helping cause them.
mr president, just first and foremost, i welcome the opportunity to speak on this particular issue. i primarily want to speak about it from an irish context and, in particular, in the area of agricultural greening. you know that we have a challenged banking system in ireland. it is still sheltered, with two major banks, and they will be the banks that will be making the applications and making the decisions about the disbursement of european investment bank funds. of course, i would have grave concerns about there being no independent adjudication system on that particular issue. because we have a sheltered banking system, farmers and others cannot go to other banks to seek funding. so i would just be a little concerned that that sheltered approach would allow irish banks to disseminate and disburse the funds in their own interests, rather than in the interests of the client and, more importantly, in what we’re trying to achieve around the whole issue of greening, a just transition, and making sure that industry and agriculture can respond to the policy directives here. so i would ask the european investment bank to look at the impartiality of the adjudication system of the irish banks in disbursing the funds.
mr president, i welcome this debate on the role of the european investment bank. i think it’s a very exciting time for the bank and i want to thank you for your work in ireland, which has been very constructive and productive and important to us. i think 25% is just the beginning. i think this is part of a wider debate that is needed in terms of the financing of the green deal, the green agenda and climate change. we need to be talking much more in public and have greater political discussion on the role of public and private investment, of the scale of the investment that is needed. if you look at the scale of the investment that is needed for the sustainable development goals, for the green deal, the trillion investment fund that ursula von der leyen is speaking about, this is a very broad challenging issue for us here in the european parliament and i really am glad to see it centre stage. i do think we have to focus on a just transition as well. we saw what happened in the economic crisis, how our citizens felt left behind. most citizens cannot afford retrofitting at present. we need to be looking at practical issues, the kind of instruments that we can develop to make sure that we reach out to citizens.
mr president, the european investment bank’s revised draft energy lending policy, released at the end of september, had some worrying changes. the original policy document contains much that should be welcomed. however, the revised draft policy contains a devastating new turn as far as ireland is concerned. the original draft states in section 3 that the bank will no longer originate fossil fuel energy projects after the adoption of the policy and stop lending to fossil fuel energy projects by 2020. as natural gas is a fossil fuel, logically natural gas, according to the original draft lending policy, would not be exempted. but the revised lending policy rewrites this subsection, so that it now states that to manage phasing-out of lending to fossil fuel energy projects smoothly, the bank will continue to approve gas infrastructure projects already firmly under appraisal until the end of 2020. now it means, for example, that the eib will pump money into the planned liquid natural gas project on the shannon estuary. this will lock ireland in to the use of fracked gas, into fossil fuel, for years to come. this is not a good way forward. it should not happen. why was the change made? please tell me.
in writing. – the ongoing trade dispute between the united states and europe has the potential to hit farmers and primary producers hard. they will be the collateral damage of trading blocs being unable to reconcile differences without the outdated use of tariffs. the targeting of high-value dairy products with an additional duty of 25%, following a wto ruling, will make many irish food products prohibitively expensive in the united states. the us is europe’s number one market for dairy exports with 133 000 tonnes exported every year. in 2018, there were eur 250 million of irish dairy exports to the us alone, including 78.5 million bottles of irish whiskey and irish cream liqueur. kerrygold, a major job creator in ireland, is the united states’ second best—selling brand of butter – this will see its price rise from usd 3.50 to close to usd 4.50 too many people see this as an ideological issue. however, the implications of continuing trade battles for ordinary people is profound. jobs will be lost in communities where agri—food jobs are the main economic driver and where other forms of well—paying jobs are rare. if we are to protect jobs in europe and ensure the viability of farming, then common sense needs to prevail.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the turkish operation in north—east syria can open a new dramatic chapter in the already very dark history of the syrian war. the potential consequences of such military action are clear to everyone – at least are very clear to us. the repercussions can be extremely serious and far—reaching in humanitarian, military, political and strategic terms. for all these reasons, we call upon turkey to immediately stop its unilateral military action. new armed hostilities in the north—east will first of all exacerbate civilian suffering and provoke further displacements. this new escalation adds yet another obstacle to the un—led political process, after the positive news just a fortnight ago of an intra—syrian agreement on constitutional committee. turkey’s unilateral action also threatens the progress achieved by the global coalition to defeat daesh, of which turkey is a member. military action will undermine the security of the coalition’s local partners – namely the kurdish forces – and risk protracted instability in north—east syria, providing fertile ground for the resurgence of daesh. let us not forget that daesh still remains a significant threat to regional, international and european security. we are also aware of turkey’s intention, in the medium—term, of settling syrian refugees along the border. it is highly unlikely that a so—called ‘safe zone’ in north—east syria, as envisaged by turkey, would satisfy international criteria for refugee return as laid down by the unhcr. it is difficult to imagine how such returns could be either safe, voluntary or in any way dignified. mass resettlement on the scale suggested by turkey would also profoundly destabilise an already fragile area. any attempt at demographic change would be unacceptable for us. we have always supported turkey for hosting three million syrian refugees, providing them with shelter, assistance and services. but as president juncker made very clear just a few hours ago in this chamber, there can be no question of the european union financing the infrastructure to receive hundreds of thousands of syrian refugees in north—east syria. the european union will not provide stabilisation or development assistance in areas where the rights of local populations are ignored – or even worse, violated. beyond the serious humanitarian and security implications, the turkish incursion might also prevent the constitutional committee from beginning its work. just two weeks ago we were in new york at the general assembly, where we received the encouraging announcement that the regime and the opposition in syria had reached their first agreement since the beginning of the war, thanks to the un mediation that we have supported over all these years. we made it clear back then and over all these days, that this is just the first step, but a very important one – a real first step to allow the whole country a potential political resolution of the conflict. we were looking forward to the first meeting of the committee in geneva – and i would like to say that we are indeed looking forward to the first meeting of the committee in geneva – possibly even before the end of october. we hope that the turkish attack will not delay the first meeting of the constitutional committee, and yet we cannot exclude this eventuality. we ask turkey to execute an immediate cessation of hostilities. a destabilised north—east syria, with new ethnic tensions and a resurgent terrorist threat, is certainly not in turkey’s interest. we have always shared the goal of ending violence, defeating daesh and promoting peace and security in syria and in the wider region. turkey has always been in this a key partner for the european union and a critically important actor in the syrian crisis and in the region. but turkey’s legitimate security concerns should be addressed through political and diplomatic means, not through military action, in accordance with international humanitarian law. we urge all to ensure always the protection of civilians and unhindered, safe and sustainable humanitarian access throughout syria. our goal remains to help the syrian people build a united, sovereign, democratic and inclusive syria. a sustainable solution to the syrian crisis will not come through military means. i think this is very clear to all – at least this is very clear to us europeans. the only way to achieve peace and security in syria is full implementation of un security council resolution 2254 under un auspices. so our immediate goal is now to avoid renewed armed hostilities in the north—east of syria, to stop them, and to do everything in our power to support the un—led political process. this is why i have invited the un special envoy for syria, mr pedersen, to join us at the next foreign affairs council next monday in luxemburg to discuss together the way forward in this critical moment. the syria conflict will not be ended by weapons. this war can only be ended by mediation and true reconciliation within syrian society. the conflict can only be ended through a genuine political transition, negotiated by the syrian parties under un auspices. the whole european union is united behind this goal, and today i have issued – more or less one hour ago – a clear declaration on behalf of all 28 member states to confirm and make extremely clear our common position. the five eu member states of the un security council coordinating have now officially asked to bring the issue in front of the security council, and i understand that this will happen tomorrow. we will also continue to be in touch with our partners, and to update obviously the european parliament on any relevant developments and to discuss together – and i am looking forward to our exchanges tonight – the way forward in this moment. i think our position has been clear from the very beginning – just a few days ago – of these developments and we must see how we can make this call effective and with impact on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as we speak, turkish forces are entering the north—east of syria in an offensive against a reliable western partner which played a crucial role in stabilising syria. yes, that partner – the syrian kurds – is being abandoned. the impulsive decision to leave this ally raises deep concerns. due to the increased turkish involvement in north—east syria, we fear that isis will benefit and seize the opportunity to regroup. furthermore, we share kurdish fears of a massacre, as was already the case in the past in afrin. not only will the west lose its reliable partner in the fight against terrorism, but we may be a witness to human suffering and destruction. the european union is the biggest contributor to the un multilateral system that establishes the instruments to prevent genocide, massacres and human catastrophes. therefore, it is important that the security council take appropriate action as soon as possible. a possible displacement of people, no matter how small it is, calls for international resistance. turkey is using the pretext of creating a safe zone. we saw a similar situation 25 years ago in srebrenica and bihać. we know the consequences of the first, and the cost of reinstating its status in the case of the second. the commission president, jean—claude juncker, has said that if the plan involves the creation of a so—called safe zone, don’t expect the eu to pay for it. in this case we certainly hope the eu shall go a step further. europe must play its part.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative, on sunday night us president trump gave president erdogan carte blanche to invade north-east syria – which turkey just did today. the kurdish-led syrian democratic forces have always been the international community’s closest ally in the fight against islamic state. they are the ones who fought the battle on the ground, and more than 10 000 of them gave their lives for the peace and security of us all. and what for – if now the jihadis use turkey’s invasion to reorganise and to continue their horrific violence in syria and across the world? turkey claims it wants to establish a so-called safe zone, but what they are in fact creating is a war zone. after all the killings, displacement and horrors of the islamic state era, the citizens of north-east syria are now facing new violence and, on top of that, abandonment by their international allies. ankara’s security concerns cannot and will not be resolved by force. high representative, my group not only urges you strongly to condemn turkey’s illegal military operation but we also call on you to use all the instruments and punitive measures at your disposal to pressure turkey to start respecting international law immediately. backstabbing our kurdish allies – after the huge sacrifices they have made for our security – is simply not an option.
madam president, we condemn the third in a row invasion of the territory of syria by nato-allied turkey, the european union's strategic partner, which is already suffering the tragic consequences of eight years of war, in the context of fierce imperialist rivalries. the united states has given the green light to the turkish attack on the syrian people and the kurdish population in the region. this development sends a chill through the new democracy government and those in greece who have been celebrating the supposed protection the united states will provide to greece over the dangerous agreement on bases, signed during the recent visit of us secretary of state pompeo to athens. the involvement of greece - and every country - in the plans of the united states, nato and the european union puts our people and other peoples on a great adventure, who today can learn from developments, strengthen the common struggle and defend their own interests. hands off the syrian people!
president. - the withdrawal of american troops is a blow to the face of the kurds and we are seeing the consequences immediately. dictator erdogan has unleashed his forces on ras al-ain and tell abyad. count on the isis scum to come out of their hole now. and what happens to the isis prisoners who are now in camps? are they going to be released? however, trump's disastrous decision is also a wake-up call for european countries. after all, criticizing trump without actually deploying the military is not fair. this can be done, for example, by relieving the americans in iraq so that they can deploy their capability in syria. the kurds and christians in the region do not buy into beautiful european statements and tearful declarations.
madam chair, this debate unfortunately coincides with the beginning of turkey's military intervention in northern syria. i join all those who express deep concern about this. regardless of ankara's rationale, this action will contribute neither to peace nor to stability in the region. while the turkish president claims that the purpose of the operation is to eliminate security threats and enable the return of syrian refugees from turkey after the establishment of a safe zone in the area, the real motives are different. erdogan's military offensive in northern syria reveals the extent to which domestic problems are weighing on him due to poor economic performance and weakening support for his policies. it is particularly unacceptable that the turkish president equates the kurds with the militants of the islamic state. this attack is an attempt to take out those who contributed most to the defeat of the islamic state. i hope it's permanent, not temporary. the european union should continue to re-examine its relations with turkey, but it should also reject any illusions about the compatibility of us president trump's foreign policy with the values we seek to promote in international relations.
madam president, distinguished colleagues, esteemed ms. mogherini, it is no surprise that turkish president erdogan attacked the kurds in syria today. we've been talking about this with you for over five years. we warn, we insist and we say: "this man is a dictator, this man is not interested in human rights". he attacks, he occupies both the kurds in syria, he occupies cyprus today, he threatens greece, he threatens bulgaria. the question is what the european union is doing (and you are the high representative). measures must be taken. all financial flows from the european union to turkey must be stopped. the intention of the big german car company that is trying to move its factory to turkey, because turkey does not respect human rights, because turkey attacks and kills civilians, because erdogan's turkey is an occupier and an aggressor and you can no longer bury your head in the sand. you have to make a decision.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, remember in 2015 when we pledged to support kurdish fighters in kobane in the fight against daesh? when they talked about the incredible rojava model, their social innovation, their focus on human rights and women's rights, their secular system of government? well, this model is about to fade. trump tweets and erdogan cheers. after the euphrates shield and olive branch operations, carried out under the pretext of terrorism, the us withdrawal is a real green light for ankara, with a resounding turn of events towards an entire people who have fought tirelessly against daesh. as we speak, turkish planes are already bombing and we are talking about the first unavoidable civilian deaths. this is not only a terrible humanitarian tragedy, but also an incomprehensible aid to daesh. colleagues, we cannot remain silent. every negotiating lever must be used to dissuade turkey from this possible extermination. turkey remains a formal candidate for membership, a status clearly no longer compatible with its aggressive attitude which violates international law, tramples on the rights of the people involved and once again destabilises an already troubled region.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the terrible and unfortunately long-awaited news of the turkish military attack on the kurdish-majority areas of northern syria has just come to us. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. erdogan seems to think he can afford anything now, including hitting our allies in the international anti-isis coalition, who were instrumental in their heroic resistance in defeating the islamic state. the time has come to talk about extraordinary measures and economic sanctions targeted at the interests of the oligarchy linked to erdogan and political retaliation far stronger than the mere suspension of the accession negotiations and the reduction of funds. if we do not do this now, if we look on in fear once again, then europe will have truly betrayed all its values. i've known them up close over the years. i have known the audacity of kurdish men and women. thousands have died for our safety. they do not deserve our indifference today. we are showing that europe exists or there will be no second chance.
madam president, what we feared has come true and turkey has attacked. i don't think we can wait. if this situation continues, then of course the ep must adopt its position in the form of a resolution, but today the executive must react first and foremost, and that is why i would really like to hear from the high representative what she is going to do today, what she is going to do tomorrow, to stop the turkish attack on the kurds in northern syria. there's no waiting here. we know that the un security council is meeting right now, and the eu cannot wait. it's a huge violence, a huge injustice that we're witnessing, and turkey, as we've said here, has an association agreement with the eu that has not been completely broken. we have leverage and pressure on turkey and we need to use it 100%. please reply, madam high representative.
madam president, the war-mongering chants from ankara and the build-up of turkish firepower on the turkish-syrian border is a sure sign that president erdoğan is preparing to attack the peaceful enclave of rojava, where kurdish women have been rebuilding society through a new model of grassroots democracy, following the defeat of daesh by the syrian democratic forces (sdf) and their allies. it is they who liberated the yazidi women from their mountaintop prison in sinjar, eventually opening the way for a sustainable peace process. more than 11 000 men and women from the sdf gave their lives to liberate this region from daesh. twenty-two thousand more were wounded in the campaign. i visited the graves of the ypg and the ypj martyrs in kobane as part of a women’s peace mission in may 2018, and i paid tribute to their bravery. the west’s abandonment of the kurds is a stain on all of us. i am proud to be a true friend to the kurds, and that means telling the truth about the fascist dictator erdoğan.
madam president, the aggression of the turkish forces is a clear violation of international law and of the sovereignty of syria’s borders. in the light of the betrayal of the americans and the apparent genocidal attitude of the turkish government towards the kurds, it should be condemned in the harshest of terms. we should now support the russian foreign minister’s call for dialogue between the syrian government and the kurds on the current situation. this suggestion has been welcomed by the kurds and they look to russia having a role in the talks. ms mogherini said that turkey is a key partner of the eu and syria, and do you know what, ms mogherini, you’re actually right. and sadly you were partners with them. sadly, you too were part of the american and a saudi effort to destabilise syria. you armed the jihadists. the lies that have been told of what’s happened in syria is too bad and, but for russia and iran, things would be so much worse there. why don’t you just lift the sanctions against syria and create a facility where it would be more possible for refugees to return home. you said the syrian conflict cannot be ended with weapons; well why the god damn did europe keep pumping weapons into the place? tell me that!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, in these five years, the citizens of ukraine have been calling for change in their country. i say five years because, when i started as high representative, ukraine was almost the only issue on our foreign policy agenda. in one sense i am worried that this is slipping away, as if problems were disappearing, and i am grateful to the european parliament for putting this issue on the agenda. this will also be on the agenda of the foreign affairs council next monday, exactly because i want to make sure that the attention does not get lower at this moment on the situation in ukraine. the citizens of ukraine in these five years have been calling for change in their country, they have been working for change in their country. they have asked for reforms that would improve their lives, with more transparency, more honesty and no corruption. they have asked for a fully sovereign country, free from war and from foreign interference. and they have asked for a strong and close partnership with the european union. they have not only asked for these things, they have also worked for these things. since our first debate on ukraine five years ago, ukraine has come a very long way. this has been possible first and foremost thanks to the determination of the citizens of ukraine, their constant work for a better country. throughout these years, the european union has always stood at the side of the ukrainian people. after 2014 we put together for ukraine the biggest support package in the history of the european union, with over eur 15 billion. we have invested more in ukraine than in any other country in the world. no other partner has invested in ukraine as much as we have done. our association agreement – which has now entered into force – is the most ambitious agreement that the european union has ever developed with any other partner. it has already delivered an impressive increase, for instance, in our trade by almost 50%. our support and our cooperation are having a very tangible impact on people’s lives. we have supported the creation of thousands of new jobs and helped deliver, through decentralisation, higher quality services for the citizens. we have accompanied the reform of the security sector. and two years ago, we made travelling to the european union easier for the people of ukraine, thanks to visa liberalisation. i have always believed that the best we could do for the people of ukraine was to be there for them, was to accompany this quest for change, this quest for reform and this work that they have done themselves to change their country profoundly and to give our full support to this work for change. and i believe that the people of //!!europe!! ukraine// understand and appreciate and know very well how close we have become in these years. after his election, president zelenskyy chose brussels as the destination of his first foreign visit, and he hosted the eu-ukraine summit in kyiv/kiev? in july – i was honoured to be there for an excellent meeting that we had. i met foreign minister prystaiko two weeks ago in new york and he will be with us at the foreign affairs council on monday in luxembourg. the simple and powerful message that i will be proud to pass, i think i would say both of us, together, on monday is this: the european union and ukraine have never been closer. this is something we say about other partners, but for ukraine – if you look at five years ago – this was definitely not to be taken for granted. i believe this is an achievement that we can celebrate together. the new government has taken a bold approach to reforms. expectations in public opinion are very high. the number of legislative acts adopted since this summer is unprecedented, and we are ready and willing to support the government in ensuring that this wave of legislation truly delivers in practical terms. for instance, we are ready to work with the government as it seeks to review some of the reforms in the judicial field. the citizens of ukraine expect to see the first results of this push to make their country more transparent and fair for all. another extremely important area continues to be the fight against corruption. improving the business and investment climate and tackling the oligarchic structures is also crucial to unleash ukraine’s economic potential, but i would say for having a healthy environment in the country altogether. we also continue to engage on energy sector reform, and we look forward to the unbundling of gas transmission from production and supply, which should happen by the end of this year. we are also working with ukraine and russia through our dialogue to conclude a new gas transit contract. it is essential to use the current momentum in the best possible way, respecting all democratic procedures and in constant consultation with the country’s vibrant civil society. thanks to these reforms and to our concrete support to these reforms – from the creation of the anti-corruption court to security sector reform – ukraine is today a much stronger country than it was five years ago. that is clearly visible today. our neighbours’ strength and resilience is obviously a core interest of the european union. at the same time, we should never forget that ukraine is still suffering a violation of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. crimea is ukraine, donbas is ukraine, and the european union will continue to keep this position in the most unequivocal and united manner. through the years, we have never stopped working for the full implementation of the minsk agreements. we have always managed to keep our unity on this, and i can tell you that five years ago, there were many that were betting on this: in the first place for it not to be possible; and then for it not to be possible to keep it. we have always managed to keep our unity on this, and i am proud of it because this was and still is the right thing to do, and i am sure that we will continue to keep our unity in the years to come. in recent weeks, we have witnessed some important developments in the normandy format and in the trilateral contact group. the outcome of the trilateral contact group meeting in minsk on 1 october, on the so-called steinmeier formula, is a step that could hopefully lead to some progress towards the full implementation of the minsk agreements by all parties. it should be clear that the minsk agreements remain central to reaching a lasting peaceful solution to the conflict in eastern ukraine, to end the fighting and the suffering of so many people. it is crucial to sustain the progress in disengagement and constructing the bridge in stanytsia luhanska. and we need a lasting ceasefire, towards the ultimate goal of restoring ukraine’s control of its whole territory. we have never stopped supporting the work of the normandy format, the trilateral contact group, and the osce. and we will continue to do so until ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity are fully restored. in the meantime, we have welcomed and we welcome the recent exchange of prisoners between ukraine and russia. that included the crew of the ukrainian vessels detained by russia last november in the kerch strait – a situation that we have discussed with parliament several times – and oleh sentsov, whom you have awarded with the sakharov price. this is good news, and we will always encourage any step that can bring us closer to a solution. we continue to call on russia to release all illegally detained ukrainians, and to ensure free passage through the kerch strait in accordance with international law. we are also investing in the infrastructure and security of the south-eastern regions of ukraine that are affected by the situation in the kerch strait. we should never forget or underestimate these immense challenges that ukraine is still facing. and at the same, i believe we should always continue to believe in the immense potential of ukraine and its people and invest in it. after five years of work, i am proud of the progress we have achieved together in these years, in extremely difficult circumstances. and i am sure that – with this parliament’s support – we will continue to stand at ukraine’s side, as the country’s closest friend.
on behalf of the ppe group the president of the court of justice! ukraine has agreed to implement the steinmeier formula for the settlement of the conflict in eastern ukraine. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the commission has not found any evidence that the measures in question constitute state aid. almost nothing. you'd like to think this deal is a step towards peace, but there's still doubt. in fact, it seems that russia will benefit from this agreement, because the elections in the donetsk and luhansk regions would give the separatists legitimacy. and that's exactly what russia needs to get back into the international community. there is even talk that russia could receive a promise in return for its tolerance to stop ukraine's rapprochement with the european union and nato. moreover, protests against this repressive agreement are already taking place in ukraine. they can destabilise society and the state. and this is also in russia's interests, which is why we, the friends of ukraine, must follow developments very closely so that the problem of donbas and the annexation of crimea do not disappear from the international agenda. thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, over the past years, ukraine has undergone a difficult political transition. the results of the presidential and parliamentary elections have given president zelensky a clear mandate: the citizens of ukraine demanded peace and higher living standards, as well as resolute action against corruption, and accountable public institutions with a modern judicial system at their core. with the ongoing conflict in eastern ukraine, despite the progress made, the risk for political instability in ukraine is still high. some countries are trying to take advantage of such instability: the latest scandal involving the president of the united states is a showcase. renewed momentum for diplomatic efforts is welcome and should be supported, but while we understand the context within which negotiations between russia and ukraine are taking place, the handover of a key suspect of the mh17 tragedy to russia is, and remains, unacceptable. it is an offense to the victims and their relatives, and they deserve those responsible to be brought to justice.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the eu-ukraine association agreement and our partnership with the ukraine is delivering positive results, based on the comprehensive framework agreed in 2014. ms mogherini, i completely agree with your assessment in this regard. we expect the new government of ukraine to embark on an ambitious and timely pace of continuous reforms, especially in large-scale privatisation, land reform, energy, healthcare and, of course, the fight against corruption. the transformation process in ukraine, as well as in other eastern partnership countries, will take time, and it’s important to maintain not only their ambition and strategic focus, but also ours. we are entering the next generation partnership with ukraine, dominated by the principle ‘more for more’, and it should lead towards a gradual opening of the eu single market to ukraine’s economy. furthermore, it is of utmost importance to involve ukraine and other eastern partners in major eu initiatives on digitalisation, migration, social inclusion, sustainable energy and climate change. ending russian aggression and achieving lasting peace is a shared european and ukrainian hope. we are seeking peace and the eu should not create illusions, especially ones undermining the legitimate interests of ukraine, and should avoid fake agreements such as the former budapest memorandum. our actions within the soon-to-be-resumed peace negotiations need to be firm and reflect our commitment to a sovereign ukraine and its people’s choice. we should help to achieve the eventual removal of all armed groups from the occupied territories of ukraine, and ukraine regaining full control of its border with russia. recent rallies in kiev stand as a reminder that no agreement is possible unless accepted by everyone. i call on the commission to elaborate and support a package for ukraine’s macro-economic stability, including a social-stability package for the population of the occupied territories of ukraine.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in february 2014 ukraine replaced its democratically elected government with a strongly anti-russian government. it wasn’t a revolution; it was a coup. it was organised by the us, as exposed by the taped phone conversations of victoria nuland, obama’s central agent there at the time. i think the advancements made by zelensky and the russians towards peace in eastern ukraine are to be warmly welcomed. people who are highlighting or voicing resistance to the deal made with russia should ask: what do the ukrainian people want? zelensky won over 70% of the vote on a pro-peace platform: that’s what the ukrainians want. in ukraine, the opposition to the prospect of peace is mainly coming from neo-nazi groups, which played a terrible role back in 2014 and since. there’s also opposition by people who have a vested interest in filling the place with arms still. ukraine has many challenges: millions have left the place; 80% of employment is in the black market; they need independence. they should be independent of russia and of the west, but whether zelensky has the power to bring that about, we only have to wait and see.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur yana toom, of renew, and my other colleagues for their hard work and cooperation on this report, especially my colleagues in the ppe group. it is vitally important that we all have well-performing social and economic policies, that these policies are not contradictory and that we move in the same direction. this report has continued to draw attention to the need for action on some persistent problems that we face in the eu. we need to take stronger action to reduce youth unemployment; tackle poverty, especially child poverty; increase labour market participation; achieve equality for each and every one of our people in society; boost competitiveness; and also think about the future and how we are going to adapt our skill sets and social systems to the future of our work, especially in rural and urban areas. i believe these are the issues and themes on which we need to take action over the coming years. today, 10 october, is world mental health day, and something i’m happy to see in this report is a call for us to take concrete measures to address mental health. it is regrettable that the eu focus on mental health has, in fact, lessened in recent years, despite its significant individual and economic cost. i think this should be a priority in employment, health and social policy. we are not looking after our citizens’ health if we are not looking after our mental health. parliament, the commission and the member states all have the capacity to take action to improve mental health policy in the eu, and this report calls for specific measures including mental health promotion and prevention measures. during the recent hearings of our commissioners-designate for both health and jobs, they too pledged to work hard, and i look forward to working with them, as does this parliament, in the coming years. finally, i’d like to thank again our rapporteur, yana toom, for her hard work.
madam chairman, first of all, let me thank jana toom for this report. i think, overall, if you look at her, she's, i would say, from my perspective, very good. however, let me just say one thing that i'd like to make clear here, and that's point number one. it's the point where yana toom actually says he wants to introduce a new financial instrument to address long-term unemployment. but we have a revised esf that works well. we have the european globalisation fund. i ask myself: where are we going to get the money for this new instrument that we want to establish here? so we weaken these two instruments that work well and have proven themselves, and we put money into a third instrument? instead of simplifying europe, we are trying to make europe more complex and to create something that will compete with each other. i hope that this debate has answered that question, which is why i cannot support this point personally, although i support the whole report.
madam president, the commission says that social policies are on an equal footing with other priorities in the eu. i find this hard to believe. in the budget, commissioner, defence spend is being increased from eur 590 million to eur 13 billion. that’s 22 times more. why isn’t this money going towards fighting poverty and inequality across europe? it’s a subsidy to the arms industry. people say that the europeans need more security. you know what? they do. they need the security of a home. they need the security of a liveable wage. they need the security of affordable, good healthcare. that’s the security they need. and, if you are worried about the security threat from terrorism, well maybe you might put some control on arms exports from europe. maybe you’d get the european countries to stop bombing other countries and creating problems and destabilising other regions. that’s the way forward with peace, not filling the pockets of the arms industry.
madam president, over the next five years the european project must be built upon a progressive platform that unites both economic and social issues. without such a platform, there will continue to be discrimination and disparity in the workforce and in pay. we must lower income inequalities, ensure wage growth for the bottom and middle percentiles, design training and education fit-for-purpose for the fourth industrial revolution, as well as tackling the gender pay and pension gaps. the european pillar of social rights is our project here in the socialists and democrats group, and this legislature has a historic opportunity to set the first-ever eu minimum wage. it is a basic human right to be paid enough in order to live. for sustainable economic growth, we must invest in people. the two are intertwined, and failure to acknowledge that will prevent us from tackling the great injustices that we currently face.
the croatian government and the governor have very ambitious plans to join our country to the eurozone. i do not share their enthusiasm and i do not think that the time has come to adopt a common currency. croatia is far from european standards, and we are facing, quite certainly, a new recession whose scale we cannot predict. some european regions still face long-term unemployment and depopulation, which is also affecting croatia. i agree with the recommendation to shift taxation from labour to other factors that are less detrimental to sustainable growth. revitalization of the passive ends cannot be achieved without investment in infrastructure and stimulating tax policies, and therefore spending taxpayers' money on stronger social measures will not yield much. the vast majority of people want to earn a decent living from their work, not from welfare.
madam president, we are talking about the employment and social policies in the euro area, and i’d like to deal with the latest european semester report from the commission in relation to ireland, where, although it’s possible to present employment in ireland in an optimistic light, the reality is, as the report reveals, massive amounts of transient work, zero hour contracts, casual work, bogus self-employment, a rise in precarious employment – no coverage for these people in terms of social security, which has an enormous impact on the quality of life in citizens. so the report, while recognising serious social ills, i have to say is undermined by the fact of the lack of political imagination in how to address it, because the world has changed; the types of industry and work have changed, and there’s a total disconnect between this and the eu structures and institutions in terms of how to deal with it. and even when a member state tries to deal with it, they are gagged and bound by the fiscal restraints that are built in to our treaties. so these problems aren’t going to be solved by technical fixes or incremental adjustors, but by a radical transformation and a break with the god of neoliberalism.
madam president, i voted against the motion, which i found to be a farce. the subtext is that russia, china, iran, north korea and venezuela are spreading disinformation that’s helping to fuel gains made by anti-eu extremist and populist candidates across europe. yet there is zero concrete evidence to support these claims, which the commission report from june on the subject explicitly admits. this motion is itself part of a disinformation campaign against other states, part of a long-running record of nato electoral interference. take the record of our great nato ally, the us, as a case in point. since the end of the second world war, they have endeavoured to overthrow more than 50 foreign governments, most of whom were democratically elected, openly interfered in democratic elections in over 30 countries, attempted to assassinate more than 50 foreign leaders, and dropped bombs – often with our assistance – on the people of around 30 countries. what of the ongoing eu and us imposed sanctions against crimea, iran, syria, venezuela and north korea – a form of economic terrorism. this weapon is used to hurt the ordinary people of these countries and very often they change their political position because of the pressure from the sanctions. that’s the worst of interference.
mr president, two weeks ago in brussels, i met with a group of young girls as part of the girls speak out week in the parliament. i spoke to them about sexual education and consent in the countries they were from and the type of education they had received in school. not one of them was able to say to me that they had received comprehensive sex education. we have a long way to go across the union in relation to this. if we in europe are to ensure gender equality – real equality – where women, girls, men and boys, understand their value, worth and responsibilities, we need to progress sexual education, not hamper it. we must educate our young people. as i know well from ireland, it is rather a lack of education, as opposed to education, that results in alarming and unexpected consequences. and what consequences they are. development of healthy relationships is hampered, awareness of what constitutes sexual abuse is stifled, and fundamentally it does a disservice to the youth in europe by denying them the right of information, a fundamental of our democracy. as regards the proposal that to teach young people about sexual education would be akin to promoting paedophilia, i say absolute nonsense. in fact, sexual education can heighten young people’s understanding and therefore make them more aware of what constitutes sexual abuse and protect them. to deny young people the opportunity of such an education makes them vulnerable, not just at that moment, but actually throughout their lives. fundamentally, this proposal will not, and cannot, achieve its true aim to reduce the numbers of young people engaging in sexual activity. rather, we must encourage young people to be careful and responsible should they make a choice to do so. the only way to do that is through thorough and comprehensive sexual education. i would urge the polish government not to progress in this manner and not to proceed in this manner.
madam president, just to say at the outset, i again accept the fact that the united kingdom voted to leave the european union. but in that context, i think it’s important that those that were supporting the uk leaving will acknowledge that by leaving without a deal, it will have profound implications on the island of ireland and it will have profound implications for the peace process. the fact of the matter is that this particular issue was not debated during the referendum itself and it has now become a key issue in the context of the withdrawal agreement and the discussions between the european union and the uk. but let us be very clear, it is not the european union that is stalling the uk leaving the european union, it is the uk parliament itself, and they are involved in a process, and whatever comes from that process it has to be close to the withdrawal agreement that has been agreed, to ensure there’s no diminution of the impact on the island of ireland that this particular agreement is there to protect. so i would say that we need to ensure that we have proper democratic scrutiny in the house of commons and for that to come to a conclusion, and here in the european parliament. and finally, may i say there can be no diminution of european citizens’ rights in northern ireland, people from the european union that have made northern ireland their home. it will be a shameful process if we have deportation of european citizens from the island of ireland.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, let me thank the rapporteurs for the work that they have both done. i think it’s been very intensive and very interesting. we’ve heard very broad macro points, both from the commissioner and the minister here today, that are important. rather than thinking of gender equality as the last in the committees (which is somewhat stereotyped, i have to say), but rather than thinking of it in that manner, let us think about how gender equality can be mainstreamed across all of the committees and how that lens needs to be seen within each of the committees here. that’s very important. clearly, this is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, and we are preparing for the transition to an inclusive europe and dealing with sustainable development goals on the 2030 agenda. as the rapporteur for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), i put in various amendments. i have to say i would like to see, for example, the pilot project on gender equality being accepted, because i think that’s very important – that we look at all of these financial instruments with a gender lens and really analyse what is happening in the different programmes from that perspective. i think that’s really important. the amendments we put in were agreed across the femm committee, and they deal with very important issues in relation to gender violence and particularly, for example, in relation to women in it, because what we do know is that there is a huge gender gap emerging there, and we need to consider that very seriously. so i would ask that we look again at some of these amendments and make sure that they are incorporated, because they are markers of how seriously we take equality. i’ve always been inspired by the way the european union, the european parliament and council deal with equality. but let’s make sure we continue.
madam president, commissioner oettinger, representatives of the finnish presidency, the council is proposing cuts of eur 1.5 billion in committed appropriations for the 2020 budget. these cuts are in effect limiting job creation, limiting research funding, limiting the youth guarantee scheme, even limiting the ability of the fund for strategic investments, the efsi, to leverage further funding and jobs. instead of cuts, and at the end of this budgetary framework, we should expect the next budget, for the period 2021-2027, to be a model of courage, courage and political will. we would expect climate change funds with additional funding for the just transition fund that the 41 coal-dependent regions and western macedonia in my home country, greece, need. instead of cutting back on committed funds, we have to do a lot in the new economy: tackle climate change effectively, boost technology through research, create other jobs. you have to rethink the issue of cuts, especially when there's the issue of flexibility.
madam president, the commission talks about prioritising growth and competitiveness. it also talks about the importance of climate action, young people and human rights. but perpetual growth is not compatible with climate action. growth is increasing, emissions are increasing, but climate action is not even running at a standstill. it’s an emergency, but it’s more talk than action. we’re not getting the action. i also believe that more budgetary margins should be mobilised. it’s not as if everything is okay. it’s okay to put money away for a rainy day if things are grand. but they’re not grand. we have poverty; we have working poverty; small businesses right across europe are struggling. why aren’t we using some of this money that you are putting aside to deal with inequality? you talk about human rights. well yes, human rights is a huge issue: the right to a liveable wage; the right to housing; the right to health care. why aren’t we putting more into that? you talk about european values and helping ngos – that that would underpin democracy and the rule of law. rule of law! what about the imprisonment of the catalonians? what about the imprisonment of julian assange? there are too many inconsistencies in your approach.
madam president, while we are talking about this debate, there are chambers across the european union that will also have a major impact on the decisions we make here – i.e. national governments – in the context of the constraints that are being placed on them by the stability and growth pact. so i think if we are to be honest with ourselves, if we are to talk about the challenges facing europe: demographics, aging population, environment, the lack of research and development and innovation in the european union, and the many other areas that we have failed to invest in – not necessarily the european union itself, but national governments – there must be an obligation on us to revisit how we assess future investment, how we assess investment in infrastructure and in development and in areas of the economy for long-term development. the stability and growth pact is an impediment to investment in the future. i genuinely believe that the european union budget is a small aspect of an overall challenge that we have to face. so i would call on others to look at this particular issue and for us to revisit that particular pact to unshackle governments in terms of long-term investment in environment, education and infrastructure and the other critical areas that will make this european union more dynamic.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'd like to thank the commissioner for his work, for his cooperation with us. you're a personality, you can be agreed with or disagreed with, but you've always had your own opinion, and i think that's something to be appreciated in a time when many politicians don't have their own opinion. i'll get to the point: this is a really extraordinary situation, because it's rare that the head of a key institution is immediately dismissed for issues that concern the citizens of the european union, and the issue of asylum, the issue of refugees is a matter that concerns a lot of people who are not interested in politics at all. no wonder this issue has also been a source of concern for many meps. i'd like to say that the 2018 budget has been passed, but this case shows that those who have been the loudest about how countries should handle asylum issues often have a lot of blame on themselves.
i have just returned from the moria refugee camp on lesbos, mr president, to learn precisely what the difficulties are for asylum seekers and the human rights situation there. one of the issues highlighted by the social organisations was the role played by the european asylum support office: the non-payment, lack of administrative capacity, questionable staff training and, since the increase in the agency's functions, the worrying and systematic denial of applications to people of specific nationalities such as syrian or iraqi, a practice that indicates discrimination against certain nationalities and which we consider to be part of the european strategy of externalizing borders, in which the office acts as the enforcer of the 'shameful agreement' with turkey, thus continuing the 'necropolitics' towards migrants. we need an asylum office, ladies and gentlemen, based on human rights, and not in the service of the security objectives of the european union's foreign policy.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which i have the honour of chairing has reasonably supported the setting up of the european asylum support office as part of the common european asylum system, because it provides training and practical tools based on knowledge of facts and data, which is extremely important in distinguishing truth from falsehood in the problem of common management of asylum and asylum seekers. but at the same time we say that we regret the council's general blocking of the update of the bureau's rules of procedure because it is unable to unblock the whole of the reform of the european asylum system; and we urge the commission to always support the unblocking of this asylum package. and finally, the court of auditors has pointed out irregularities in the management of the office's accounts in 2016 and 2017, but especially in 2018, in public tender operations that admit no irregularity and, therefore, we hope that the action plan for the governance of the office will emerge from the commitment to transparency and accountability that the civil liberties commission always expects in return for the support we have provided so far.
mr president, first of all i want to state that we do not have a refugee crisis here in europe. there is a refugee crisis in jordan, lebanon and in many countries in africa, but here in europe we have a crisis of solidarity, which means that some member states have had to bear more responsibility than others. i want to thank those that have shown compassion, moral compass and leadership by shouldering this responsibility when others have shrugged their shoulders, turned their back and forgotten true european values. we do need to have a better common european asylum system by facilitating, coordinating and strengthening practical cooperation among member states on the many aspects of asylum – and i include my country, the uk, in that list, due to the hostile environment created by theresa may when she was home secretary and which continues today. contrast salvini’s cruel policies of turning away migrant vessels in italy and criminalising those who gave aid and assistance with the brave actions of pedro sánchez, who opened the spanish ports to refugees just a few days after taking office.
mr president, we could of course run through the litany of wrongdoings at the european asylum support office (easo): breaches of procurement rules, human resources breaches, data protection breaches, harassment and bullying of staff, and a general climate of irresponsibility. however, i actually think that it’s more important to remind ourselves of what easo is supposed to do and how it is failing in that mandate. you only have to look at the role being played in greece in order to verify that point: thousands of innocent people, desperate to just have a life, are crammed into facilities like the detention facility at moria, already vastly overcapacity, in hellish conditions. it’s their fundamental right to apply for asylum, but instead many are given a pre-interview with easo to see if they’re eligible for a fundamental human right. if they’re not, they are handed back under the eu-turkey agreement where, as we’re being told, turkey is sending them over the border into syria, where they’re facing war by the turkish authorities. this is a stain on all of our consciences.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me begin by saying that i was delighted to hear that both the finnish presidency and the commissioner—designate for equality, helena dalli, have made firm commitments over the past number of weeks to prioritise either improvements on, or the revision of, this file. it is incredibly important that both the presidency and the commission recognise the urgent need for movement on this directive. it is imperative that we come up with a roadmap, not only on how to get this file off the ground, but also on how to close the legislative gap against discrimination covered by the proposed directive. these gaps leave substantial numbers of our citizens vulnerable to discrimination based on inherently personal qualities like their age, their disability, sexual orientation or religious beliefs. in the past 11 years, the world has moved on. many eu countries have adopted more progressive equality laws and improved non—discrimination protection for their citizens. eu legislation in this area is lagging behind – and hearing the previous speakers, i think we’re all in agreement of that. we cannot continue to be world leaders when it comes to the protection of human rights if we fail as an institution to enshrine these rights in this directive. the twin principles of equality and non—discrimination are the bedrock of the international human rights framework. the prohibition of discrimination is the only right set out in all nine core international human rights treaties. discrimination is frequently identified by international and regional human rights bodies as one of the greatest human rights challenges facing eu member states. we need to change that. we must send a clear message that human rights are non—negotiable, and the best way of doing that is to start right here at home.
mr president, i think it is an indictment on all of our institutions that we have just celebrated the 11th anniversary of the failure of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive – a directive which is clearly long overdue. i just want to give an example of a woman friend of mine, a person with a disability, who relies on using straws for the basic necessities of her daily life and whose life is going to be affected by the single-use plastics directive. she’s obviously very happy to help the environment, but her problem is that the irish government are giving a derogation for medical use. people with disabilities are not sick; disability is a social problem. they’re disabled by society, by customs, institutions, and laws, and you couldn’t have a better example, as far as i am concerned, of a law that medicalises her, that says there’s something wrong with her, even when they are trying to help her. this type of discrimination is rampant, but it’s not a technical problem. it won’t be sorted by a quick-fix, qualified majority vote to circumvent member states’ vetos. we need real, meaningful dialogue that addresses the root causes of discrimination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate i would like to remind you once again that the first and most defenseless victims of the turkish military offensive in north-east syria are children. and the 2008 european union guidelines on children and armed conflict highlight how children suffer the most and the most in any conflict, and the ongoing conflict in syria is certainly no exception. unicef estimates that at least 70,000 children have been displaced in northeast syria since the start of the armed intervention, but if hostilities continue, tens of thousands more children could soon be in need of humanitarian assistance. in accordance with the un convention on the rights of the child, whose 30th anniversary we will be celebrating in a few days' time, it is therefore necessary for the european union to step up its diplomatic efforts to promote peace, so that the parties to the conflict and all those who can exercise a real influence on the ground will work to ensure maximum protection for all children involved in this new conflict. children are children in every situation. we have a duty to protect them! (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
madam president, turkey has crossed the border and entered the sovereign country of syria. it’s a violation of international law. turkey has invaded syria, not kurdistan. we must express solidarity with the kurdish people, but the territorial integrity of syria is a matter for the syrians to decide. about 8% of the kurds live in syria and 50% of them live in turkey, where they are treated abysmally, making turkey an apartheid state in their behaviour. when the pkk fighters cross the border into syria, they are called rebel fighters. when they come back into turkey, they are called terrorists. and what is europe doing about it? sadly, europe paid turkey eur 6 billion in the last two years to cage migrants whose homes were destroyed with the help of european countries. when is europe going to stop behaving like this?
mr president, i just want to explain, in connection with the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east (unrwa), that i actually visited palestine itself and you have to see first-hand the impact that occupation is having on that country. so i certainly suggest that all efforts should be made to ensure that there is a restoration of funding to unrwa, because over the last number of years there has been a systemic undermining of this two-state solution to addressing the middle east peace crisis, and that in itself is having profound implications on citizens living in the palestinian state and the west bank, and also in gaza. so, from that perspective, the funding should be restored. i would also call on the united states of america to ensure that they also come back to the table and support unrwa. it is having a profound negative impact that cuts to children attending schools, to refugee programmes, and this is an appalling indictment on the united states of america, on israel itself, and if we support those cuts by not increasing the budget, then we are complicit in undermining basic human rights in palestine.
madam president, it’s now or never. climate change is no longer a theoretical debate among scientists, but a reality. if not addressed immediately and resolutely it will have a devastating impact on the planet and on the lives of current and future generations. we all need to understand it is no longer linked to certain political forces or ideologies, but it is a total issue: the biggest risk ever involving all of humanity. i want to be very clear about what i believe should be the concrete proposal of the new european commission. first of all, it is essential to exclude green investments from deficit calculations in the stability pact. indeed, with the actual eu constraints it is very difficult for member states to act properly. second, we must aim to completely phase out investments in fossil fuels. and third, we need to be much more ambitious in terms of targets, aiming for a 65% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. future generations will judge us for what we are doing to the planet and those judgments will be decidedly very harsh. we need concrete and urgent actions now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the message from new york was clear: the climate summit, the sustainability summit, has put us in the driver's seat - and commissioner oettinger, i would like to see it that we are already on the right track, but the summary was different - we are miles behind what we have declared to want to achieve. and that's why we have to spy on each other. we must move forward as the european union and set new standards in our domestic policy, development policy, trade policy and foreign policy. i am waiting for one thing, and that is a job you still have to do in the transition to the new commission. the old commission was right to describe a scenario 1, one where sustainability becomes mandatory for all policy areas. but i have not yet heard the new commission president commit that this binding scenario 1 for sustainability in all policy areas will be the compass of the new commission. and that is what we want to see, what we want to hear, and that is where you can make a major contribution to the transition to the new commission. i would be delighted to hear that answer.
madam president, let us be clear, the un climate summit in new york has given birth to a mouse. only 66 countries, representing less than 7% of co2 emissions, have committed to do better by 2020. meanwhile, the big polluters, the rest of us, are just sitting on the fence. europe has therefore, more than ever, the duty of being an example, and here the levers are known. we said so. the most important, of course, is the green deal, which must be implemented during this mandate. the european union has committed itself to investing €1 trillion over 10 years in the ecological transition, with the european investment bank playing a central role, of course. so it is obvious, but at a time when the ambitions for the next financial framework 2021-2027 are shrinking, we like to recall this obvious fact. the climate emergency also means taking action on the impact of pollution on our health. air pollution is being made considerably worse by climate change. it kills more people in europe than tobacco. it's responsible for 660,000 deaths a year. in europe, clean air is a right of european citizens. it must also become a priority for the new commission, alongside the climate emergency.
madam president! i have been listening to this debate with great interest and unfortunately i have not heard a single word about the speculative nature of the emissions trading system. nor have i heard the left's concerns about the rise of energy poverty in the european union. then i'll remind you. 54 million people in the european union suffer from energy poverty. today, you propose to expand the scope of restrictive climate policy. you're talking about farming. so do you want to make poverty extend to this area and finally start talking about food poverty? after all, outside the european union, of course, food will be produced, animals will be treated with hormones, antibiotics without any control. that is why we need a climate policy that is sensible and prudent, that takes into account the differences in the level of economic development of the member states, that speaks of the right to self-determination of the energy mix, which is in line with the treaty, that also takes into account the differences in the level of wealth of societies, precisely to prevent energy poverty.
madam president, at the eu summit, there was 10 minutes discussing climate action. it spoke volumes for their priorities. the un climate summit in new york last month was supposed to boost climate action but it produced nothing. the latest science makes it clear that not one of the eu’s climate and energy targets are in line with the paris agreement. an emergency situation needs an emergency response. if you’re serious about dealing with climate challenges and problems, there are some actions that need to be taken now: you need to end fossil fuel subsidies straight away; you should stop liquid natural gas projects across europe, including the shannon project in ireland; you need to stop funding gas projects, and you should end the stability and growth pact and let’s invest in renewable energy. without these basic steps to undo these climate contradictions, we are in denial.
madam president, the european green deal will only succeed if it makes a real difference in people’s lives. in transport and environment we have a real challenge and frans timmermans and kadri simson have a real struggle ahead of them. the urban agenda for the eu is a good starting point for their work. why? because it puts air quality, housing and urban poverty at the heart of a just transition through regulation, funding and knowledge. so, mr timmermans, i want you to promote active travel and that means walking and cycling. the end result is less traffic and a healthier population. i want you to join up urban planning and transport policies so people can travel less and easier. and to ms simson, speed up retrofitting. this tackles fuel poverty. start with public housing and give us an a energy rating to public homes. and make the european super grid a reality so that green electricity can travel to where it is needed. (applause)
madam president, i too would like to commiserate with the 39 victims found in the back of a container in essex, via belgium through an irish-owned company registered in bulgaria: part of an increasing race to the bottom in the haulage industry. and it’s yet another tragic and heart-breaking example of how desperate people are, and the risks that they take to come to europe. so i salute the efforts of those involved in search and rescue. it’s basic morality and it’s basic international law. but what isn’t international law is pushing people back and delegating responsibility to libya, where they face disastrous conditions. we do need a reform of the dublin agreement. we do need to develop safe routes into europe in order to tackle the smugglers. but more than anything we need to stop bombing their countries and making them homeless and making them refugees in the first place.
in writing. the french attitude towards the accession talks with albania and north macedonia is very regrettable. the eu enlargement and in this case the stability of the balkans should not be undermined by any single member state. the commission has already certified in 2018 that both states have completed all the necessary reforms to be able to start accession negotiations. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the eu accession would be very popular with the people in both countries, especially since both governments are pro-european. but we also have to learn from previous expansions. it is not just the economic fundamentals that are important, but also the social acquis, equality and human rights. the rule of law must be respected, and greater attention to social cohesion must be given. the eu must not create a strategic vacuum in the western balkans, but must aim at european integration.
on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president and honourable members of parliament, at the beginning of october protests erupted in baghdad, and later spread to other parts of iraq. the demonstrations escalated into violent clashes with the security forces, resulting in over 110 deaths and more than 6 000 wounded. a curfew was imposed and the internet was shut down for several days. there have been reports of attacks against press agencies and television stations, but also of unknown armed individuals attacking protesters. the european union made it immediately clear, already on 3 october, that we expect the security forces to exercise maximum restraint in the handling of protests, and we expect credible and swift investigations of the events. we are encouraged by the prompt statements from iraq’s highest authorities, who have reaffirmed their commitment to guaranteeing freedom of expression and security for all iraqi citizens as well as the freedom of the press. the iraqi people’s demands cannot be met with repression. their requests must be listened to and addressed in earnest. the protests seem to have initiated spontaneously, driven by young people asking for access to basic services, better opportunities and an end to corruption. their aspirations and grievances are legitimate and should not be underestimated. in fact, young people across the middle east are taking to the streets with the same demands. at the same time, the challenges that iraq is facing are unique. the country is finally coming out of a long conflict. it needs reconciliation and reconstruction; but it also needs to deliver on its people’s aspirations to a better life and better opportunities for all. these expectations need to be fulfilled if iraq is to be stabilised in the long term. credible and effective structural economic reforms cannot be postponed. corruption needs to be tackled effectively. this is crucial to building the country’s resilience with effective state institutions and strong democracy. the current government of iraq has put forward an ambitious reform agenda, which must now be implemented as a matter of urgency. the high representative was in baghdad over the summer and already then she offered to support the government’s reform agenda and to focus on providing services to the population. in these years, we have always been on the side of the iraqi people, and their work to rebuild and reconcile the country. in early 2018, we co-hosted in kuwait an international conference for the reconstruction of iraq, and we are now delivering on the pledges made at the conference. eur 300 million has been mobilised in the last two years to support reforms and promote sustainable job creation, particularly for the youngest generation – the one that has been at the forefront of the recent protests. in these years we have demined the country’s hospitals and universities, so that the people of iraq could finally have a normal life. we have worked with the iraqi government to support national reconciliation and we have established a civilian advisory mission to assist with security sector reform. this is also to make security forces more compliant with basic human rights and fundamental freedoms. we cannot forget that iraq has made significant progress in the past two years. after the territorial defeat of daesh, the 2018 elections were followed by a peaceful transfer of power. meanwhile, relations between the central government and the kurdistan regional government have also improved. we europeans have always said that we want to help the people of iraq win peace. this is what the people of iraq are asking right now, so we will continue to be at their side and to accompany iraq on its path towards a stronger more inclusive and more just democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have a crisis between iran and saudi arabia, unrest in lebanon, an invasion in syria and other developments that underline the importance of a stable iraq in a complex and volatile region. iraq’s economy is recovering from 20 years of armed conflict that include the years of presence of the so-called islamic state in its territory. the potential of the country is huge. iraq is already the organization of the petroleum exporting countries’ (opec) second biggest producer with the production of 4.6 million barrels a day. economists predict 3.6% growth in 2019 and 4% in 2020. we should therefore ask the government of iraq to use the economic potential of the country to address the grievances of the population that led to the recent social unrest. the government lost control of the situation and the security forces. we should exert our influence in favour of the implementation of the 13-point reform programme announced by the government and in favour of an independent investigation into who is responsible for the death of more than 100 protesting citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this month, tens of thousands took to the streets across the shia majority regions of iraq. protests were clearly spontaneous and protesters were unarmed. in no way did they pose a security threat, and yet the crackdown by the authorities was brutal and deadly. at least 110 were killed, thousands were injured and thrown in prison, and paramilitary snipers shot dead dozens from the rooftops in baghdad. colleagues, let me be very clear: these actions are blatant and unacceptable human rights violations and must be condemned in the strongest terms. the protesters’ concerns are legitimate and urgent. similar protests have been ongoing for months. a quarter of the young people are unemployed; basic public services are absent; corruption is endemic. concerns about iran are growing, and the actions taken by the government are of the deepest concern and simply do not deliver. these protests are not over. nothing has been resolved; rather the contrary. 25 october is the government deadline to bring to justice those responsible for shooting civilians. on this very day, people again will go to the streets. we cannot allow their legitimate demands to again be met with violence. iraq needs structural, social and economic reforms and revision of its patronage networks. this takes political courage. the eu and its parliaments stand by all iraqi people, and we are ready to assist the authorities if they want to invest genuinely, decisively and inclusively in the country’s social and economic reforms. we are ready to demonstrate that the eu is a fair and trustworthy partner in the region.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there has been a period of hope in iraq after the crushing of isis, despite difficulties and now massive demonstrations against corruption, unemployment and poor public services. the reaction of the iraqi government was probably excessive, causing many casualties, with a trace of provocation as well: allegedly, an iran—backed militia with snipers was deployed from the rooftops, causing more and more casualties, with young people killed and over 6 000 wounded. we have to engage heavily in support of the government of prime minister adil abdul—mahdi, but we also have to request that all actions necessary be taken to curb the possibility of further violations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this time last year we were in iraq. three weeks ago, the young man who brought us around was shot. his friend, aged 19, just engaged, was killed in the protests. do you know what upset them the most, and our friends back in ireland who are iraqi friends? it was the fact that nobody in the world seemed to care. over a hundred people dead, thousands injured; it didn’t even merit a headline. when you compare it to the coverage on hong kong – we’ve got so used to the decimation of that country. young people looking for simple things – electricity, water, jobs – they can’t get them. why? because it’s a legacy of the us illegal invasion; the privatisation of iraqi assets; the theft of their natural resources exacerbated by corruption. it’s an appalling indictment. i find it very interesting that the present government, whilst predominantly pro-us, is being pragmatic, is being a little bit open to syria, a little bit friendly to iraq. i want an investigation into who was responsible for the shooting, because i don’t think it’s clear, and i do think that agents provocateurs are operating in that region.
mr. chairman, the conclusions of the iraqi government's commission of inquiry are clear. the deaths of 157 people in recent anti-government demonstrations have been blamed on the security forces. the brutality of the security forces is reprehensible in all circumstances. if "helping and protecting" becomes beating and killing unarmed protesters who are demanding better living conditions, democracy is in danger. it is true, of course, that the us military has brought about as much stability as the plague to the region, but we all certainly hoped that iraq would be in a better state. but if they are responding to protests against corruption and unemployment and poorly functioning services with live ammunition, we know that iraq is not in good shape and is moving away from democracy. the brutality of the security forces must be condemned at all times and everywhere. both in iraq and in catalonia, which most members do not want to discuss, and for which you should be ashamed.
mr president, (off microphone) incident, thousands of protesters, mostly young people have demonstrated across iraq against corruption and unemployment, demanding accountable governance and improved public services. they have been met by iraqi security forces using excessive and lethal force, killing more than 100 and wounding over 4 000. there must be a transparent investigation and proper accountability for these killings and human rights abuses. the authorities must immediately release all protesters who have not been charged with a legitimate criminal offence. those arrested and detained solely for exercising their right to participate in demonstrations or criticise the government are not criminals, and the media blackout in the ensuing crackdown against protesters by silencing their voices cannot continue. we remind the iraqi government that it is obligated under international law to protect the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of expression.
mr president, iraq is a broken country. it’s hardly surprising that people are protesting. it’s hardly surprising that the government is pretty useless. the damage that’s been done to this country – iraq – have we ever seen anything as bad in the last 30 years? it’s incredible, and sadly the european states are not innocent. of course, it was all driven by the americans; of course it was about resources; it was about regime change. the hardship that this approach has inflicted on a people. over a million people have been killed in the place, and when someone is killed there now, it’s irrelevant! look at how many meps are here. they were far more interested in bombing the place than they are now in doing anything for the people. what can we do? actually, i don’t know. it’s so hard for the western powers to actually help a country without financially abusing it and raping it of its resources.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is unacceptable that sexual orientation continues to be used as a justification for serious human rights violations around the world. lgbti rights are human rights. what we are witnessing in uganda and indonesia falls within the competency of our european union. discrimination against lgbti persons undermines the most basic human rights principles enshrined by the universal declaration of human rights. this parliament has an obligation to react to human rights violations and we also have an obligation to ensure other institutions also act. it is important, it is highly important, that we ask our new commission and our council, in accordance with the lgbti guidelines, to include our community members in uganda and indonesia in their dialogues with the governments of these countries. we must have a dialogue to change discrimination laws, combat homophobia and prejudice against lgbitq community members and protect our communities from their violence. we now have to lead. as an lgbtiq community member myself, if the killing of three gay men and one transgender woman happened in ireland? we should therefore protect our citizens in uganda.
mr president, uganda is a country where the human rights of the lgbti community have been stripped away by anti-gay legislation for a very long time. the country’s lgbti community has a history of being harassed and silenced by the government and the ugandan police. the new plan by the government is to reintroduce the ‘kill the gays’ bill from 2014. this bill criminalises not only the act of same-sex activities, it even makes it clear that anyone who is even involved in promotional and information dissemination also has to be criminalised. the bill will lead to witch-hunts, more harassment, violence and, as we have seen, even extrajudicial executions. the international community cannot let this happen. we need to remind uganda that the right to sexuality and to express one’s sexuality and freedom from discrimination is based on the universality of human rights and is guaranteed by international human rights law. furthermore, the ugandan government has an obligation under the cotonou agreement, which calls for universal human rights to be respected.
mr president, i am, of course, against the death penalty full- stop, but the fact that that was being considered for the crime of love is utterly outrageous. let’s be clear: the criminalisation of homosexuality in any form legitimises homophobic hate and actually constitutes a death sentence for many people. i, of course, offer full solidarity to the victims in uganda and the lgbti activists in that region. but i do find it a little bit sickening, that some in this house sought to add to this resolution a bit of self-congratulations to the eu, as if we are some sort of a beacon of human rights excellence. we shouldn’t forget that we don’t have to go to uganda to find appalling discrimination against lgbti people. for many people in europe, the inaction and complacency of the eu at the persistent and rising prejudice and hatred in our own member states should also be listened to. solidarity doesn’t stop outside our borders and should begin at home.
mr president, i rise once again to speak about human rights in egypt. el-sisi promised stability, security and economic prosperity to the people of egypt. he delivered none of this, but a crackdown on political opponents, media and civil society. now trump may be willing to turn a blind eye to the human rights abuses in egypt, but we are not. according to amnesty international, 4 300 people, including women and minors, have been arrested since the start of the protests in september. it is outrageous. so i call for an immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners, in particular ramy shaabh and mohamed masry. my question, though, to the commissioner: what answers do you have? many colleagues have referred to the case of giulio regeni, a cambridge university student from italy, who went missing in cairo whilst undertaking research for his phd. ten days later, his body was found with evidence of the most severe torture. almost four years on, we have no answers from el-sisi and the egyptian government. so what are you doing to review the billions of euros we send to egypt through the european neighbourhood instrument, and what is the commission proposing to cut back in order to get some answers from egypt?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: egypt is very important to us because stability in that country is in the interest of our countries. the lack of stability means that there is a very real possibility that hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of refugees will come to europe, so we have our fingers crossed for egypt. of course, we must demand that the young people who are demonstrating are not in prison, but we must also know that behind the organization of these demonstrations are islamic extremists, the muslim brotherhood, and that these people are clearly treating these demonstrators as cannon fodder for the fight against the authorities. egypt has taken in refugees from syria, so it is worth remembering that, but here in the european parliament we should first of all talk about defending the rights of christians in that country. here it must be said very clearly that the egyptian government has done a lot in this direction, but still attacks on our brothers in the faith happen all the time, so we must support the egyptian authorities very strongly in this regard so that christians, copts are safe in egypt. in short, let us show our solidarity with the egyptian authorities, who are an element of the stabilization of the country, and demand the release of political prisoners.
mr president, i want to support this motion for a resolution, i agree with the colleagues who have criticized the human rights situation in egypt. what general sisi's regime is doing is hard to defend, even though i recognize that egypt is a key partner of the european union, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that human rights are being totally trampled on in egypt. i have spent my entire career as a former minister of justice working on the death penalty, and it is necessary to note and add to the list of human rights violations in egypt that the death penalty began to be abused significantly under the regime of general sisi. in the last five years, 3,000 people have been sentenced to death and executed. there was no proper trial, juveniles were sentenced to death, and women were sentenced to death. this is unfortunately a signal that the human rights situation in egypt is deteriorating. this thing, this "special thing" shows how hard it is in egypt today and how human rights are trampled by the regime there.
mr president, i think there is actually a sad irony in the familiarity of this resolution. parts of it are a copy and paste of the resolution that was passed almost a year ago, and yet the situation on the ground in egypt is actually deteriorating. i find a lot of double speak in here, because to go forward we need to look backwards, and while the resolution expresses european parliament’s support for the aspirations of the egyptian people to establish a free and stable, prosperous, inclusive democratic society, we have to remind ourselves that the eu congratulated el-sisi on coming to power. we should remind ourselves that the first democratically-elected civilian president – morsi – was ousted in a coup, kept in solitary confinement and is now dead. so triggering resolutions once a year is not good enough. we have to look at our actions, and working with the likes of egypt and saudi arabia, calling for a stronger partnership on migration and border controls, makes us complicit. egypt does what it does because of the involvement of member states of the european union in giving them arms and giving them back-up.
mr president, president trump recently called the egyptian president el-sisi ‘my favourite dictator’. the uk is egypt’s largest investor and france is egypt’s largest supplier of weapons. the us, the uk and france will turn a blind eye to human rights every time it suits them. let’s not forget that before el-sisi became president, he presided over the single largest massacre of unarmed protesters in modern history in 2013. el-sisi is a brutal dictator. do the french have any problems selling him weapons? no. do the french have any problems selling weapons to the saudis who are committing genocide in yemen? no. does the eu do anything about it? no. this european union has sanctions, which are a form of terrorism, against venezuela, syria, iran. you do business with murderers. what’s going on with you?
i am sorry, mr president, but you must explain why you have asked for the question of bolivia to be included and for a resolution to be adopted in november. who's against? is there a speaker who wishes to express his opposition?
mr president, i would be against it, given the nature of what it will end up being like. i also was in la paz for the election. this is a coup d’état. when the military tell the elected president that he has to go, it is called a coup d’état. this is an abuse of the electoral system. it’s an abuse of international law. it’s an abuse of human rights. this house is forever talking about all three, and interference in elections, but when it happens in this case, they actually like it. this house needs to make up its mind what it likes and what it doesn’t. we will oppose the resolution.
madam president, millions of children in europe suffer from rare diseases, children who cannot move or have difficulty seeing, breathing, understanding or whose immune systems are weakened. three quarters of rare diseases are paediatric diseases. yet, within the european union, for these children and their families, it is still a struggle to get a diagnosis within a reasonable timeframe and to have access to appropriate and reimbursed treatment. so, in the field of research, rare childhood diseases remain the poor parent. while we cannot just dismiss the effects of adults on children, i therefore ask the commission to listen to the voices of these young patients and to ensure better information, better coordination, more effective exchanges and comprehensive care for these children and their families, as well as support for research specifically focused on rare childhood diseases.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to denounce a particular and worrying situation affecting european children and parents in japan: in the great asian country, our important partner in many ways, some 150 000 children, many of them european, are taken from one parent every year, preventing the other from having any future contact with the child. the situation is very serious when one considers that there is no shared custody of children in the japanese legal system. the abduction of children by a parent is not considered a crime and there are no legal consequences in fact for the custodial parent who does not comply with the judgments. this is in defiance of the rights of minors under the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which japan ratified in 1994, and in violation of the right of parents to maintain a bond with their children. we cannot and must not remain silent in the face of this violation, especially when it directly affects european citizens. many parents, mainly italian, german and french, expect the problem to be recognized and discussed, they expect concrete action, in short, they expect support and help from the european union. this is the case for example of vincent and tommaso, who have a visitation right recognised in a judgment, who are fighting every day to be able to see their children again and who have contacted us in the hope of getting answers. that is why i am asking today for a clear commitment statement from the european commission. i hope that this case will be highlighted in the resolution to be voted in strasbourg and that the instrument of the recent trade and strategic partnership agreement between japan and the european union will be used to call on the japanese authorities to restore the rule of law as soon as possible.
madam president, today's debate and the resolution we are going to vote on in strasbourg cannot and must not be just an occasion to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. it is true that we have made progress in the protection of children over the last 30 years, child mortality has been reduced and the number of children without access to school has been halved, but the rights of too many children are still being violated. ladies and gentlemen, in europe 25 million children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. we demand that the european child guarantee be set up as soon as possible for children at risk of poverty and that they be offered free health care and free access to education and other social services. outside our borders, some 420 million children live in conflict-affected areas. many of them flee poverty and war - alone or with their families - seeking refuge, asylum and protection. we must commit ourselves to protecting their rights, starting with the right to life and development of the child. we want the rights of children to be integrated into development cooperation and humanitarian aid policies and to ensure adequate funding for programmes dedicated to the protection of children, and we call for the reform of the common european asylum system to be completed to ensure the immediate protection of unaccompanied minors arriving in europe. the best way to celebrate this anniversary is to act more quickly and decisively.
madam president, the question i ask is: how can we more actively involve children in our work and in the laws that we shape? i’m pleased that the european parliament has a coordinator on children’s rights, ewa kopacz. previously we had two irish women, mary banotti, and indeed your good self, madam president, occupying that role. but i believe we can do more. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union says that the views of children ‘shall be taken into consideration on matters which concern them’. and the un convention’s article 12 says the same. we must ensure that we actively seek the views of children in proposed laws that will affect them, because if the voice of the child is not heard, they are more likely to face discrimination. most european children cannot vote and are particularly vulnerable. refugees even more so. it’s no accident that, in my own country, almost 4 000 children are now living without a home in homeless accommodation, according to the department of housing statistics. so we need to ensure that children’s voices are heard. finally, just to pay tribute to our national broadcaster, rte, which has a hearing on climate change for children in our parliament this friday. let’s repeat that here.
mr president, i am very pleased that we are commemorating together today the anniversary of such an important document as the convention on the rights of the child, and i am also proud that it was one of the first international treaties to be ratified by the then czech and slovak federal republics, just after the fall of communism in our country. a child is the greatest gift to a family, but also to society. and the family is the best environment for raising a child. a child needs the care of both parents. the convention on the rights of the child confirms this. a child has the right to be cared for by both parents. sometimes people forget that these days. today, too, we should place far greater emphasis on the role of the family. her responsibility. state care comes in where families can't, fail, or for some reason, children are simply without families. the aim should be to support functional and functioning families, that is to support young families and families who have and must take care of their children. the convention on the rights of the child, even after 30 years, is still a timely and unrivalled document. maybe more than ever. every child has the right to a family, to school and to grow up in a supportive environment. but unfortunately, even in the european union today, there are children, refugee children, who do not have this right. and we should help them.
mr. president, children suffer most from the mistakes, misunderstandings and violence of adults. the convention protects the child and children's rights, and that is true of all children, no matter where they come from. because no one in this world has an exclusive right to this world and its prosperity. first, children have that right, but they are not to blame for the world's problems. the year of the adoption of the convention coincides with the year of the fall of the berlin wall. and the greatest thing we can do for our children is to keep europe at peace, to keep europe cooperating, to make europe prosperous. and by enabling our children to thrive, we can also help children around the world who find themselves in poverty or at risk. so i ask you, colleagues who are destroying europe, do you realize what you can do to your children?
mr president, 20 november will be the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. this states that every child has the right to education, a right to participation and to be protected against all forms of discrimination, as well as all forms of violence. sadly, there’s still a long way to go to ensure that this is achieved for each and every one of the 2.2 billion children in the world. a un study published this month showed that at least 1.5 million children are incarcerated across the world. approximately 330 000 children in 77 countries, including in eu member states, are held in immigration detention centres. this is unacceptable. we’ve seen the distressing images of children in cages on the us-mexican border, separated from their parents because of trump’s cruel anti-migrant policies. i myself regularly meet with unaccompanied minors on the streets of macron’s paris – cold, hungry and at risk of exploitation. we still have work to do and that’s why i’m proud to have co-founded, in 2014, the very first child rights intergroup. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, the challenges we face in trying to protect the world's children and create an environment in which they can have a safe and secure childhood have changed dramatically over the past three decades. the internet represents a revolution in human communication, but also a threat to the safety and privacy of children and young people. i think we need to do more to educate children and young people, and their parents, and at the same time punish offenders more drastically. smart devices with internet connectivity are part of our daily lives, and new generations are practically born with them. but despite their usefulness, the growth of addiction to these devices, especially among children, is very worrying. we need to do more on prevention and education and find a balance between health and technological progress.
mr president, the convention on the rights of the child lists the rights to shelter, nutrition and an adequate standard of living for children. almost 25 million children under 18 are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu. according to the latest figures in ireland from the department of housing, there are 3 848 children living with homelessness. over 10 000 people are living with homelessness in ireland because of the failed neo-liberal, market-based approach that the government has towards housing. and the military and financial imperialism of the developed countries in the global north are destroying the lives of many children in the global south. it is long past time that this parliament acknowledges the fact that neo-liberalism fails many children.
mr president, the european union has repeatedly called on ankara to cease its illegal activities in the eastern mediterranean, but turkey has continued its drilling operations within cypriot international waters. let’s be very clear, these activities are illegal under international law. they reflect the regrettable change of turkish foreign policy and they have a negative impact on turkey-eu relations. madam high representative, i welcome the adoption by the eu foreign affairs council of a legal framework for possible sanctions against individuals and entities that are involved in the drilling activities, but as mr michael gahler pointed out, now the names need to be added to the list. these sanctions are a necessary step to put pressure on turkey to respect the sovereignty of cyprus and therefore the integrity of our european union territory.
mr president, the foreign affairs council has rightly adopted measures against turkey as a first reaction to the illegal drilling in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. but are these measures sufficient to make turkey wake up and start respecting international law when it is violating the human rights of its own people, when it is invading syria and ethnically cleansing the kurds, when it continues to occupy 38% of cyprus, when it is blackmailing europe with refugees, when it is threatening greece in the aegean and when, finally, it is illegally invading a european exclusive economic zone? we must be honest with each other. unfortunately, turkey does not understand either the appeals or the dialogue. turkey will only be taken into account when severe economic sanctions are imposed on it. the european union must respond to the daily challenges facing turkey.
the european council is adopting the framework for sanctions against turkey for its illegal drilling in the eastern mediterranean. it is a clear message of solidarity with cyprus and the cypriot people. sanctions will be imposed on persons responsible for illegal drilling in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. they will be banned from entering the european union. their assets will be frozen. it will be forbidden for persons of the european union to provide funds and financing to those who are illegally involved in drilling. the european union's borders, madam president, are also the borders of cyprus. the exclusive economic zone of the european union shall also be the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels.
madam president, madam mogherini, turkey's violations of the law in european union waters are not only an attack on cyprus, they are in fact an attack on europe, not only on our waters but also on the rules governing the existence of the european union and which require full respect for international and european law. i'm sure you'll agree with me. the european union's credibility is being put to the test in cyprus, in relation to this neo-ottoman expansionist turkey, and its ability to defend our very existence is being put to the test. we can crush the economy of erdogan. we can impose a ban on the sale of arms and many other things. so, dear mrs mogherini, we thank you for what you have done so far but we are investing in you for much more. the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem.
turkey has no right to initiate oil and gas exploration activities in the area that cyprus has declared its exclusive economic zone. the eu has an obligation to help its member state in the fight to preserve its resources and sovereignty. although this case will cause new friction with turkey, which is using the migrant crisis and its role in it to blackmail europe, the principle of international law and law must be defended. i would remind you that not all member states of the union have declared exclusive economic zones and i call on the commission and the council to encourage them to do so. in order to be able to effectively protect our resources and implement common policies, we need to have legal mechanisms in place.
madam president, yes, turkey doesn’t have any right to the resources of cyprus, just the same as the americans have no right to the resources of syria. the eu council has called on turkey to recognise the sovereignty and the sovereign rights of cyprus. but does it mean anything? the eu has been complicit in turkey’s behaviour, with all your arms dealings with them and with your 2016 refugee deal. you are so obsessed with turkey helping you to keep the refugees out of europe, you know what? erdogan can do what he likes now. he’s shown it and proven it. he’s in syria now! he invaded syria last month. not for the first time. he didn’t get a slap on the wrist for it – the sovereign territory of syria! and he is now in league with the free syrian army, who were once described as ‘moderate rebels’ and were armed by western powers and now are complicit in killing kurds. you are complicit! why don’t you stop?
madam president, i would like to address ms mogherini. you say that the organization of american states (oas) say there were severe irregularities in the 20 october election. why didn’t they give us the evidence of it? you also said that morales won by 0.5%. no, he won by 10.5%. he needed the 0.5% to get over the 10% mark. he is clearly the most favoured candidate in bolivia at the moment. your analysis of how the election went, how the quick vote was stopped – there was a very good explanation for it. if it’s over 80%, it’s normal to announce it then. the official vote started, and rather than having two votes running at the one time, they decided to run with the official one and only restarted the other one under pressure. your arguments don’t hold water. the two boys who called for the removal – the head of police, general kaliman, and the police commissioner, calderón mariscal – it’s interesting that both of them served as attachés in washington. the us has not got clean hands here, and it beggars belief, madame, that you will not call this what it is. this was a military coup. a good day for neoliberalism, but a bad day for the people of bolivia.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i pay tribute to journalists all over the world, in particular those reporting from conflict areas, as well as investigative ones challenging autocratic or corrupt regimes. without their secure work we face chaos and disinformation and therefore, in commemorating the international day, we have to remember those perishing, according to unesco, predominantly in arab countries, in latin america, in asia, in africa but, unfortunately, also in europe, in the european union – daphne galizia and ján kuciak. i call for our increased efforts, use of every possible tool to eradicate impunity. there is almost 90% of impunity now for all crimes against journalists.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, we have on the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists, a journalist who has been found by the united nations human rights council to have been arbitrarily detained for seven years in an eu member state by the actions of two other eu member states, and we say nothing. we have a united nations special rapporteur report on torture which investigates this case and says that this journalist is showing symptoms of prolonged exposure to psychological torture, and we say nothing. i am, of course, talking about the case of julian assange; the words are those of nils melzer, the un rapporteur who will be joining us tomorrow morning to discuss this case because it is, of course, not about the life of one man, although that man’s life is in danger. this is the defining press freedom case of our age: the attempts of the us authorities to extradite, under the espionage act, and facing potentially 175 years in prison, julian assange for exposing war crimes in 2010, including the crime of murdering two iraqi journalists exposed in the ‘collateral murder’ video. we talk an awful lot in here about the rule of law and human rights. anybody who cares about these issues has to be on the side of julian assange in the impending battle of his extradition case, which is opening in britain in february.
madam president, i am ashamed to be irish and to have to stand up here to talk about 78-year-old tarak kauff and 82-year-old ken myers, two us army veterans for peace who came to ireland on st patrick’s day eight months ago to search us warplanes and expose the lie that these warplanes from the united states transiting through a civilian airport in neutral ireland do not have arms. these men know that they have arms and, like myself and my colleague, when we were members of the irish parliament, attempted to search those planes. unlike us, these two elderly men have had their passports taken from them in a very vindictive move. they’ve been effectively interned in ireland for eight months, unable to go home, reliant on the charity of others and separated from their families at this part of their lives. this is a denial of their human rights. there’s no question they’re not going to turn up for their trial. this is why they did the action in the first place: to talk about their experiences when they were in the military and to expose the lies going on. i’m really appealing to the european parliament and european institutions, on humanitarian grounds, to say to the irish state not to stand in the way of their request for the bail conditions to be lifted, for their passports to be given back, so they can spend christmas at home with their families.
madam president, it was well documented, at this point that a humanitarian crisis in the greek islands is extremely serious with moria camp, one of the worst examples sheltering with over 10 000 people when it is designed to host 3 000 people. although the unpredicted increase in recent arrivals has seen the greek authorities greatly step up in their emergency evacuations, the already overcrowded facilities have seen conditions on the island become dire. in july and august of this year, 73 children referred to doctors without borders mental health teams, three young people had attempted suicide and 17 had self-harmed. we cannot as leaders and as citizens within the 28 member states avoid and neglect our support and obligations towards eu solidarity. yes, the principle of solidarity involves responsibility sharing; and yes solidarity can at times be unpopular; and yes there are faults in various systems - but colleagues the crisis is now the biggest humanitarian crisis facing the eu today. we cannot afford to have the perspective that it is purely as a security issue. it has become an issue of fundamental rights. each member state must be willing to, and ready to, cooperate working within and whatever scale and context we can. it will make a difference. it will make a difference to greece, and our colleagues here sitting in the parliament representing greece, and of course most importantly it will make a difference to our vulnerable citizens arriving into the european union. this is a crisis and it needs our support immediately. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, just to say at the outset, the fact of the matter is we’re in this chamber continually discussing the issue of migration and asylum seekers. the conditions on lesbos and the greek islands are absolutely appalling, but it is an absolute failure of the council in particular because there is no will with the council to address this particular issue and they’ve abandoned the refugees and asylum seekers on the greek islands and on the italian islands, but what we really have done and what the council has really done it has abandoned the greeks and the italians and the spanish in dealing with this particular issue. so we have to be very honest with ourselves. we will continually see these human tragedies unfolding across the mediterranean if the council does not accept its responsibility to deal with this issue. let’s be very honest, the people that are on lesbos don’t want to stay on lesbos, they want to come to the european union in its entirety because of sanctuary and because of opportunity. yet we sit on our hands. we condemn and we discuss and the council is moribund until such time as it adheres to its responsibility and addresses this particular issue – and that includes my government as well. (applause)
madam president, europe has a huge climate debt. in the global north, we contribute far more to climate breakdown with our history of emissions, yet we refuse to take radical action, even though we have a disproportionate amount of the world’s wealth. we cannot fix a problem caused by capitalism with more capitalism. the truth is, climate change isn’t caused by people, it’s caused by an economic system that drives inequality and rewards environmental destruction. we cannot fix this with neo-liberal policies. it’s not about encouraging consumers to make environmentally friendly choices; we need an emergency-level response outside the framework of encouraging behaviour change. we need a 70% reduction in emissions by 2030: anything less, and it means that we don’t actually view this as a climate emergency. if we continue to allow the liquid natural gas units to be built around europe to facilitate american frack gas, then we are not serious about it. we already have one such unit in ireland. we need to change the system, not the climate.
mr president, declaring an emergency, catastrophe or crisis without actually having policies in place that will actually have a meaningful impact on the environment and on climate change will simply be just denying the reality that is there at the moment. i think, if the european union to be serious about climate change, it has to make sure that all policies are inclusive: that not only do they send out a strong message, but that people actually buy in and support what needs to be done to change how we live, how we work, and how we commute. if we don’t, we will simply end up continually talking about it as if the discussion itself will have an outcome. we have to be honest with ourselves: we need policies now – not next year or in five years’ time. we need to be imaginative and creative. the bottom line here is that unless you have access to finance; unless companies and businesses invest in research and innovation; unless our colleges have the capacity to research and innovate in the areas of climate change, then we really will be talking about a catastrophe and a crisis, because it will be just that. we need to act now with inclusive, imaginative policies, allowing industry to adapt to address the issues.
mr president, we’ve heard the stories here tonight and we have to ask ourselves what is happening in our democracies that we still have this endemic level of violence against women. right across every member state, and indeed across the world, we have to do everything we can to call it out. no one person, no one institution is going to change this. it’s about many, many actors coming together to work to make a difference. we need policymakers, law enforcement officials, judges, social workers, sisters, brothers. we need male ambassadors who will work to make sure that we eliminate the violence that we’re hearing about tonight. of the 28 eu member states, seven member states have still to ratify the convention. what’s absolutely clear is that people are still ambivalent about the convention, and we hear the projections onto the convention. let’s get back to basics. the convention is about interrupting violence against women and using whatever means we can. we’re not implementing it for the institutions, we’re implementing it for sisters, daughters, wives ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would first like to say that this point has two parts for me. one is business, and the other is politics. the trade agreement means balancing certain risks arising from the implementation of the existing agreements with ukraine. clearly, there were some gaps. i am glad that both the rapporteur and the commissioner have described them clearly. it's clear to me that we have to bridge those gaps, and this is, i think, a good result. i'd like to support that. the second part is political support for ukraine, because i think we have to support ukraine unambiguously. many citizens of ukraine, but also of course its institutions, are waiting for this support to be expressed. this is one measure that can help. as much as i feel that there are our european interests here, there is a certain political commitment towards ukraine and we should fulfil that. i am voting for this because i also supported this association agreement here in the previous term.
mr president, i obviously come from the same country as the commissioner and wish him good luck with his job but, commissioner hogan, you have a huge capacity and potential to make a positive impact for farmers and food producers across europe. but you also have the potential to do them serious damage. if the european system is going to prevail with importing material from outside of europe at the expense of food producers in europe, i don’t think that has to be the way forward. we are going to put small farmers and small producers out of business if ‘cheap’ is the law that rules every day. of course there’s cheaper production available from outside of europe because they’re getting paid peanuts in the production process, but that is no reason, commissioner, for you to go down that track. you need to protect farmers, especially small farmers and small producers across europe.
madam president, i’m all for celebrating freedom and democracy but it strikes me that we’re very selective in our celebration. i wasn’t here last year, but i doubt very much there was a 50th anniversary celebration of the revolution in france or the civil rights movement in ireland or the anti-vietnam protests, yet week after week in here, we have the uprisings of the people of eastern europe being used to justify a narrative of the poor victims of eastern europe being freed from the big bad wolf of communism and brought into the loving arms to live happily ever after in the european union. well, i don’t see that narrative as being a reality. let us remember here when we have a balanced view of history that according to the lancet a million adults died prematurely as a consequence of the imposition of capitalism in eastern europe. is this just a statistic? the giving away of public property to oligarchs, was that in inevitability? is that what people were struggling for? so i think when we look at our history, we have to look at it in a fair and balanced way and learn the lessons correctly.
madam president, i also stand in solidarity with the lithuanian people and the judiciary and the prosecutors. an attack on the independence and integrity of the prosecutorial roles of any democratic state in the european union is an attack on our basic fundamental principles and freedoms. i remember in 1989, it was a huge historic moment in the context of the berlin wall falling, coming down, and the hope and aspirations of millions of people on the eastern side of that wall being fulfilled. but the idea that we now can have the russian federation intimidating and threatening a judiciary which went about its lawful duty in 1991, in the context of shooting of innocent civilians, is an outrageous attack and it does indicate that we must be forever vigilant in ensuring the rule of law is upheld and we must never be afraid to call it out, even if it is when threatening neighbours and bigger countries are trying to bulldoze and bully smaller countries. i want to stand here in solidarity with the lithuanian people, my colleagues in this parliament, but, as importantly, with the rule of law across the entire continent. it must be supported and upheld.
mr president, i raise the issue of funding in ireland in the context of the western corridor. it’s a motorway project from letterkenny in the north-west of the country right down to cork, in the south-west of the country. a lot of that was eu-supported over many, many years, but there are large sections of this particular motorway which have not been completed yet. this is an integral part of the development of ireland in the context of making sure we have proper structural and regional balance in place; that all the activity isn’t just funded into the capital in dublin, and that the south and south-west in particular would have opportunities to grow and expand and increase its population; and the road structure and investment that is required from limerick to cork and the north-ring road in cork is a critical infrastructural part that is required to ensure we have strong regional balance across the island of ireland. so i’m calling on people to support me in my efforts to get the irish government, with assistance from the european union, to complete this integral infrastructural development.
madam president, how you spend your money and distribute it will shape the europe of tomorrow. ireland is a small country, but since 1970 we have lost 140 000 small farms. it is a direct result of government policy and, sadly, eu policy. we have moved towards industrial farming and away from the production of clean food. we now need to distribute the money of europe in a manner that would help farmers to move away from chemicals and pesticides. i would also say that you need to stop giving money to the industrial farms – they don’t need it. on environment, i would urge the leaders to consider a permanent ban on all new fossil fuel infrastructure, including liquefied natural gas infrastructure, and those gas infrastructure projects on the eu’s project of common interest list. infrastructure decisions create path dependencies and these gas infrastructure projects will create fossil fuel lock-in for decades... (the president cut off the speaker)
the president voted today in the council on the adoption of a resolution on the 30th anniversary of the adoption of a resolution on the commemoration of the victims of the holocaust. there is a great deal of research in ireland at the moment and there is a great deal of debate before the children about what to say. in irland, there are almost 4,000 children in foster care each year. is bocht an scéal is seo in éirinn agus ní féidir linn glacadh laws? what is the meaning of this? we can't take any more laws that have kids suffering because of their jerseys. in all member states, the obligations under the convention must be fulfilled to ensure that every child has a fair standard of living.
madam president, commissioner oettinger, the 2020 budget of the european union is a development challenge for the member states, and it is based on the new agenda that our citizens are demanding. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council amending the regulation on the european parliament and council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a very critical request concerning its implementation. the possibility to use eur 778.1 million in commitments to finance immediate needs to address the problems posed by migration, refugee flows and security threats is an important and necessary step. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece is taking on a responsibility disproportionate to its capacity to receive refugees and to be a destination for irregular migrants. the european council cannot go on without changing dublin, it cannot allow countries which refuse to share responsibility for migration to continue to have all the privileges of funding and schengen. the 2020 budget is an opportunity to send the message that the future of europe is shared. we share the burden of the hard stuff. we support countries like greece that are taking on the hardships and the difficult missions and we are empowering young people, tackling climate change and creating the conditions for them to find lots and lots of good jobs.
a uachtaráin, show an dul chun cinn seo fírinne an tseanfhocail i mo theanga féin ní neart go cur le chéile. a uachtaráin, show an dul chun cinn seo fírinne an tseanfhocail i mo theanga féin ní neart go cur le chéile. a uachtaráin, show an dul chun cinn seo fírinne an tseanfhocail i mo theanga féin ní neart go cur le chéile. a uachtaráin, show an dul chun cinn seo fírinne an tseanfhocail i mo theanga féin ní neart go cur le chéile. there is no progress without unity. the unity of the parliament here, particularly under monika hohlmeier, josé manuel fernandes and jan olbrycht and all the others, has produced a fantastic result for the european parliament and indeed for the european people. eur 450 million extra and eur 400 million of prioritisation thats eur 850 million. that would not have happened if it were not for the members of the european parliament. i hope the critics who like to highlight the negative will at least give some recognition to the positive. in my own country we wanted increased funding for the sef eur 96 million extra. again, will that be highlighted? i hope it will, and i'll be watching. the money has been used in a very sensible way: eur 302 million for horizon 2020. that research and development programme started under an irish commissioner, máire geoghegan-quinn, and was carried on by commissioner moedas. this is very important to keep us at the forefront in terms of competitiveness and development and innovation in the world. young people in particular can rejoice eur 50 million extra for erasmus, eur 28 million for youth employment, eur 25 million for discovereu. this shows that young people are a priority for all the groups in the european parliament, which is something that everyone can rejoice about and i know that this will be welcomed properly if it is advertised and recognised by all the people of europe.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to thank all the members involved in negotiating this budget agreement. i think we have reached a good compromise, where we have increased appropriations for commitments in order to respond to the current challenges facing the european union. the additional €850 million over the commission's original project increases the chances of achieving the objectives efficiently. a large part of the money will be spent on climate issues, as we know. however, i am pleased that the additional money will also be used for programmes targeting young people, namely erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative. i also think that the european parliament has been very successful in providing the funds for pilot actions. i consider it an important instrument, which, in partnership with the european commission, allows innovative and ground-breaking solutions to be tested at european union level.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his presentation. commissioner, you say that 21.1% will go to fight climate change. but i’d like to ask you whether you are not concerned about the lack of joined—up thinking when it comes to dealing with climate change. do you not think that all infrastructure projects relating to fossil fuel should be banned at this stage – all new projects – and that we need to move on? for example, we are looking at a liquefied natural gas terminal in the shannon estuary. it will lock us into fracked shale gas for at least 30 years. do you honestly believe, commissioner, that this is the way forward? this is to support the american expansion of fracking in america. it can’t be good. someone said that there was 50 million extra to be called upon if necessary. do you not think, given that we have 25 million children across europe at risk of poverty, that this should now be immediately directed to help those people out of poverty?
madam president, at the outset i want to express my solidarity to the people of venice and italy itself. there is no doubt that venice is a cultural capital. it’s an iconic city. you look at the renaissance architecture and all that it has given to europe in terms of history, politics and culture. so, from that perspective, i do want to convey my deepest sympathies. of course, we have to acknowledge that global warming and rising sea levels are now a factor that continually threaten our coastal areas, so venice is just a symbol of what is happening across the globe. couple that with the fact that most major cities are in confluences or deltas and coastal areas would indicate that we’re going to face these challenges on a continual basis. the european union and individual member states will have to accept and address this particular issue of rising sea levels and how they protect our cities and towns from flooding. from that perspective, i can understand how people in venice feel, owing to the fact that my own city of cork in ireland has experienced flooding on a regular basis. so we do need to put in place proper funds and ensure that there is solidarity with cities and towns that continually flood.
madam president, by discussing extreme weather events and climate change you are trying to hide the fact that today the progress of science and technology is able to offer man much greater protection from natural phenomena than in the past, preventing or limiting to a considerable extent the consequences, and in line with any changes in the climate. the criteria of profit, the european union's risky cost-benefit approach, the minimal number of piecemeal projects, the distinction between high and low-risk areas, which condemn working-class neighbourhoods to remain unprotected, are currently hindering these possibilities. all of the above is a planned result of euro-directives and the long-standing anti-people policy in greece, both of new democracy and syriza. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so your tools are only for groups. in the region of kinetta, with last year's major fires, it is the third time that the same houses of the fire victims, who have not yet been compensated for previous disasters, have been flooded. the damage recently suffered in crete, euboea, chalkidiki, thassos, ionia, rhodes, the peloponnese, western greece and elsewhere is extensive and requires immediate compensation and restoration work. in contradiction to european union policy, we demand that the victims be compensated now and that immediate measures be taken for flood control, civil protection, infrastructure, personnel, with integrated state scientific planning.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. floods, storms, wildfires, earthquakes, landslides and other natural disasters are all threats to our cultural heritage. venice, a unesco world heritage city, was hit by an extraordinary flood in the first weeks of november, when the water rose to six feet (1.8 m). other parts of italy are also experiencing severe storms. matera, this year's european capital of culture, was also flooded. it was the worst flood in over 50 years and, to that extent, not a recurring event. venice declared a state of emergency, and the italian government committed eur 20 million in emergency aid to repair the immediate damage. but the actual damage is still hard to quantify. the st. mark's square, home to st. mark's cathedral, many museums and cultural monuments, as well as the venice biennale, were under water, and the salt water alone is causing enormous damage to cultural sites. the flood was a stab in the heart of italy, said the italian prime minister, but it was also a stab in the heart for us europeans, because it is a european task to protect our cultural heritage, and we do so in many places. the epp group has proposed to the commission the creation of a fund to protect the eu's cultural heritage, to ensure the preservation of our most precious historical treasures and to ensure that europe stands behind its member states when they are hit hard by natural disasters. this fund is intended to restore and preserve for future generations our cultural heritage threatened and damaged by natural disasters. but we must also promote protection projects such as the mose project and many other things. we have to work together here. but this fund is at least helping to rebuild our cultural heritage where damage has already been done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic images of the floods that are occurring these days are yet another demonstration of the effects of climate change. at the end of october, the high water in venice reached one meter and 56 centimeters. yesterday a section of the turin-savona viaduct collapsed and devastating images are also coming from southern italy. extreme weather events like these could increase by 50% by 2100, and according to a study by the european environment agency, in just 36 years, extreme weather events have caused economic losses totalling €450 billion. and who pays the consequences? it is not the citizens who should and must pay for this, but the fossil fuel companies, because they are the ones who have contributed to the rise in global temperatures and thus to the increase in natural disasters. in the past, oil companies have not only hidden the fact that the use of fossil fuels would have harmful consequences for the climate, but some have even invested in climate change disinformation. but the time for misinformation is over, and with the recent development of attribution science, it is possible to link the responsibility of a single company to a particular climate event, and that would allow the polluter pays principle to really apply. so no more lies, it's time for the oil companies to pay for the damage they've done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for weeks now the whole of italy has been battered by weather events which are putting the very stability of the country at risk. unfortunately, these are no longer extraordinary events, but the regularity and continuity of what is happening is dramatically worrying. climate change is a challenge that we all face, but we can't blame it all on climate change, we have to be able to do more and do it better. human lives, economic and productive activities, and priceless artistic and cultural property: we are facing a phenomenon that is hitting our country with unprecedented severity. the italian government immediately created a special economic zone for venice and the polesine municipalities, in accordance with european standards and demonstrating synergy between the institutions. however, europe will also have to play its part, including by activating the most urgent instruments available, such as the solidarity fund that was activated in 2012 for emilia romagna. but emergency response is not enough. today we need a genuine european strategy to take care of our most fragile territories, an extraordinary plan to combat hydrogeological disruption, to modernise infrastructure, to ensure the safety of all our citizens and to preserve europe's artistic heritage. finally, i would like to remind you of one of the symbols of this fragile europe, the city of venice, which for centuries has conquered the impossible: built on the sea and made unique in its beauty. venice can be, if we wish, the symbol of a european renaissance based on security and sustainability, which can protect us from the negative effects of climate change and which can put in place all the necessary actions to reverse the course and permanently stop the environmental degradation in progress. if italy and europe are able to save venice, this will be a symbol of a europe that can do it, overcoming enormous obstacles, and being able to do it together will be a good message that we give to the world.
the uachtaráin, the steep chair in venice and the mbaol agus are seans ann gur gearr go n-imeoidh sí i léig. the train station is next to the farraige and not near the farraige and mbaol. it means there's no going back to the millions of people who died. i want to adhaimsire each other. the dirty one. i fear climate change. you've seen the veins in your eyes for years. ailtireacht iontach na cathrach, a dánlanna iad uile i mbaol. the cathedral is the seat of the bishop of the diocese of bonn. is mian liom massimo cacciari a mholadh, iarmhéara na veinéise, a labhair ag an am sin faoi éiceolaíocht leochaileach mhurlach na veinéise. he is a french journalist and author. is mian liom icomos a mholadh as an dea-obair a dhéanann siad chun na foirgnimh agus na tírdhreacha within the defensa. we must dream of giving the world the technology to create the solutions we have. caithfimid saw the creation of the na haibhneacha. caithfimid to be on the laws an timpeallacht chun réitigh a chur ar fáil. in irland, there is a public library office in the highlands to learn, where you can find out about these problems. we need to learn about the laws of climate change.
madam president, meteorological catastrophes are not a left- wing alarmist plot, as one of the speakers suggested. they are sadly a reality for the people of venice; they are a reality for the victims in albania who tragically lost their lives; they are a reality for the citizens of portrane, a coastal village in dublin where i come from, where chunks of land have fallen into the sea, even today. where residents watched earlier this year to see their house falling into the sea and months later remain unhoused in that area. climate experts say that ireland is already overdue a catastrophic storm surge of up to 3 metres at a nationwide cost and damage to property alone of eur 1 billion. now governments and the european union need to be ahead of the curve on this. we urgently need disaster-relief preparedness and we need a long-term strategy, mitigating coastal erosion. our government seems to be incapable of that, kicking the can between the local authority and the government. we, on a european basis, need to come together and to deal with what is a meteorological catastrophe.
madam president, everyone, regardless of who they are, their skin colour, their creed, their orientation, their language, has the right to dignity and respect, to be treated like everyone else, to have their basic human rights acknowledged and respected. what we are talking about today and what we are hearing is happening in our european union. this is not just a question about policy. it is a direct assault on human rights. hate crime undermines the inclusiveness of our society. when we talk about lgbtqi rights, we can recall how much has been achieved, in my own country of ireland in particular. but what we are discussing today, what we are hearing, reminds us we cannot be complacent. we need to defend what has been achieved. the promotion and protection of rights of lgbtqi persons is explicit in all eu policy. and, unfortunately, there is strong evidence that hate speech and discrimination is still a reality for many of our communities and we need to take action together. we need all our politicians to make it clear that we cannot and we will not tolerate any hate speech or discrimination. we need our institutions, such as our criminal justice systems to be able to take action against hate speech and discriminations. and finally, we need eu institutions to take action. this kind of discrimination has clear cross-border dimensions and it is a fundamental challenge to the values of our eu and our member states. finally, to my colleague sitting to the right: i’m a pioneer. i’m an lgbtqi person. i’m a practising catholic. i am irish and i am european and no one has the right to tell me where i should live and how i should live.
madam president, i too, i have to say, find it almost unbelievable that we are discussing the notion of lgbti-free zones. because apart from being despicable and illegal, the notion in and of itself is absolutely ludicrous: the idea that lgbti citizens are not present in every country, in every family, in every community. more than anything, the fact that we have to discuss this shows the need for education. i think there’s an incredible irony in the fact that these homophobic actions were sparked by the proposal to have an all-inclusive lgbti sex education in warsaw schools, precisely demonstrating why such comprehensive sex education is needed in the first place to combat ignorance and intolerance. i’ve heard people in here saying that ‘polish people know better about poland’, ‘spanish people know better about spain’. you could have said: ‘ireland was a catholic, conservative country’, but ireland delivered a resounding vote for same sex marriage. attitudes change when you publicly discuss these issues in a tolerant, loving environment.
in writing. – free trade is a central plank of the eu’s and, in particular, ireland’s economic strategy, owing to its lack of obvious natural resources – bar our own charm and ingenuity. irish farmers are the collateral damage of the failure of the eu and the us to reach a common ground. for example, a 25% tariff on butter will have an estimated cost of eur 50 million for the irish dairy industry annually. in addition to the direct impact these tariffs will have, the instability also threatens growth and job creation. this pressure comes at a time when markets are already dealing with the ongoing consequences of the russian ban and the looming threat of brexit. i strongly supported the calls for the commission to use all available tools under the cap to assist the sector, as well as supporting producers in the most affected sectors to seek alternative markets for their products and produce. imposing additional tariffs on eu-us trade is mutually destructive and doesn’t serve the long-term interest of either the us or the eu. the commission must de-escalate the trade tensions and to ensure that a timely resolution is found before the spring, to avoid damage to exports of new season products.
madam president, we are living in an age of misinformation. we are facing a crisis in our ‘information ecosystem’, as lydia polgreen described it. the viral spread of misinformation has wreaked havoc in our political systems, namely through interference in our democracies and elections. to emphasise the threat we face: in the first quarter of 2019, 2.2 billion fake facebook accounts were removed, and twitter challenged almost 77 million spam or fake accounts. from the brexit referendum, to the election of president trump, to the recent european elections, all have been subjected in some way to disinformation campaigns. while fake news proliferates, high-quality journalism suffers. populations are best served by a political system held to account by a well briefed, expert media who are sceptical – not cynical, and inquisitive – not inquisitorial. consensus is not truth. rumour is not fact. defamation is not heroism. career destruction is not systemic reform. europeans recognise the threat of misinformation, and they want action. a recent eurobarometer poll showed that 83% of europeans think that fake news is a threat to our democracy. there is a serious urgency to this. doing nothing risks the fundamental foundations of our democracy. we need a quick—access route to deal with online lies. for too long, social media has operated as a wild west of human discourse. the snowflake never needs to feel responsible for the avalanche. we must have well—funded cybersecurity systems in place to counter the threat of fake news and foreign interference, with all member states working together. without proper facts and information, our laws will have little value. without proper facts, our citizens cannot be confident in our institutions, including this one. so for this mandate, let’s ensure that our political system places the highest value in truth and fact.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs mogherini for her five years of work and commitment, but if you will allow me, i would now like to ask the new commission and the individual member states to be consistent and responsible in the future. we cannot afford to abandon our eastern neighbours, and i think it is wrong that we have stopped the accession processes with macedonia and albania. macedonia in particular has made huge choices and a lot of work to demotivate them in this way, and we have to realize that such choices are demotivating for our eastern partners as well. a stable neighbourhood is essential for the eu. and for the very stability, prosperity and security here in the eu. cooperation with our eastern partners is also a great opportunity to spread european ideas. accession negotiations, but also international cooperation towards the east, also serve as a tool for spreading the values we want to prevail in the world. ukraine, moldova, armenia look to europe, so we should not disappoint them with our negative attitudes in the future.
madam president, i am pleased that after ten years we can now evaluate this partnership. ten years ago, it was launched when the czech republic held the presidency of the european union, and we czechs were there. i remember the debates on the part of the czech government, which i had the honour to be part of, when the main philosophy was to help the countries that are between the european union and russia, fill this gap and unfortunately are often under enormous pressure and influence from russia. that's the geopolitical reason i think this partnership fulfills. if we were to clear this space and stop communicating with these countries, supporting them, i fear that the influence of russia, which has unfortunately been growing in some of these countries lately, see moldova, for example, would grow even more in the future. so the geopolitical plane is clear here, but then there's the simple reason that these are countries whose people, at least in a large part, want to live in freedom, democracy and prosperous states. these are our european values, which we should promote in these countries. i think that despite some problems, this partnership can be seen as a positive one and that we should intensify and strengthen it for the next decade. it is necessary to say, as some colleagues have said, that these six countries do not have a logically uniform development there are certain internal problems, there are different degrees of interference by russia and that we should therefore have a different strategy for each state. but the general trend that such a partnership makes sense, that we should encourage cooperation between these countries and the european union, is, i think, clear, and it is by no means that these countries should join the european union anytime soon.
madam president, ms mogherini, you said that the eastern partnerships are not against anyone. would you not do not admit that us and european involvement in ukraine has very much an anti-russian element to it? i think it would be very hard to ignore that. do you not think that if russia was interfering in canada or mexico that there would be serious tensions also with america? do you not think that it is about time that europe worked for peace with russia? the european project was built on a peaceful one, and it would make so much more sense now to look for peace with russia and engage those countries around it, make them independent, so they don’t need the west or russia. at the moment, europe is increasing its militarisation, instead of decreasing it. we are liable to go into another arms race. why don’t we work with russia and lift the sanctions? ms mogherini, i haven't been here very long and we haven’t agreed on very much, but i’ll still miss you. good luck.
madam president, oleg sentsov’s visit to our european parliament this week to receive his well—deserved 2018 sakharov prize for freedom of thought reminds us of the terrible price still being paid every day by the ukrainian people for defending their territorial integrity. there’s a war going on in our eastern neighbourhood and it’s barely mentioned in the media, yet the un human rights agency estimates that 13 000 people or more have already lost their lives in the donbass area. the illegal annexation of crimea is an affront to all of us who care about democracy. i’m proud that this parliament supports ukraine and its aspirations to move closer to our european family. in 2011, i was involved in a year—long cultural exchange project with ukrainian partners. i fell in love with the country and its people. i learned about the largely unknown holodomor, or hunger, a planned genocide which killed 7 million ukrainians. russian abuses continue, and i urge colleagues to join our mep friends of ukraine group, because there’s never been a more important time to reach out and embrace ukraine.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i think this discussion shows once again the relevance of parliamentary work in support of our partnerships. i’ve said it several times, not only with the eastern partners but also with other partners we have around the world: the role of parliament is key. i believe that when it comes to the eastern partnership specifically, in the terms of both the partnership with the six countries and on the specific parliamentary work you have done and also the work you have done with the civil society and the social players that have roots in each of the six specific countries: the added value is enormous. this is quite an unusual session for debates for me because, obviously, i cannot commit for the future steps. that will be, obviously, in the wise hands of my successor and the next commission. but i am sure that the track that was started wisely ten years ago and then followed in this most recent years – that of deepening our partnership in all fields with the six countries we have to our east – is going to be strengthened even more in the future. i’m sure that it will have the possibility of counting on your full support, as i have been privileged to be accompanied in this particular work by you, with your advisors, with your work. many of you have thanked me for this partnership. let me pay back by thanking you because i think that we have shown that, even if not always sharing exactly the same perspectives, but that’s the positive point of democracy. you can disagree on some points, but you can still work in the same direction on some issues. i think that, in particular on the eastern partnership, we have proven that parliament, commission, council can work together in unison and try to bridge some of the difficulties are still lying ahead. again, thank you for five years of support on this file and looking forward to staying in touch. but, as i was mentioning to the previous president of the session, i will stay with you for the rest of the evening and tomorrow. so that’s not yet the last word of goodbye.
in writing. today's debate is a clear signal that the overall situation of our eastern partners is becoming increasingly complex. the question arises in this context as to what we as the european union should do. we need to work - not only within the eastern partnership but also in bilateral contacts between individual member states - to support our partners wherever they are needed. and above all, we should consider how to make the neighbourhood formula more attractive, to encourage them to make greater efforts to cooperate more closely with the eu and to carry out democratic reforms.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me start by sharing with you a personal memory, maybe an anecdote, it is no mystery. when i took office exactly five years ago, five years and a couple of weeks ago, i paid my first visit outside of the european union to israel and palestine, including a visit in gaza. and i said at that time that i believe that a two—state solution could be achieved during my mandate. this was the goal that i kept in my mind and in my actions all of these years. and, at some points, i have to say this goal seemed to be getting closer, but we all know what the situation looks like today. this doesn’t mean that the perspective is not there and is not valid anymore. i think it is a matter of political will and political conditions, and i’ll get back to that. but today, clearly, if i paid the same visit probably i wouldn’t say that i believe that that solution could be achieved in the coming months or years. the very idea of two states today has come under attack as never before from many sides. yet, we should all know that a two—state solution remains – i’m profoundly convinced of this – the best and the only realistic chance for peace and also for security in the holy places. this is a principled and a pragmatic position at the same time. nobody – nobody – has presented a credible alternative to two states so far. many have argued against, but nobody has expressed any clear view that can substitute that objective realistically. and any plan that is not firmly anchored in international law – and let me add, also in the profound aspirations and interests of the people, not only of palestine and israel but also of the region – would ultimately fail. our support for the two states is a matter of international law, is a matter of justice and democracy, but, as i mentioned, is also a matter of realism. in these years, we have worked full time to avoid the dissolution of the two—states perspective. and the work continues today, even in such difficult circumstances, let me say especially in such difficult circumstances. because sometimes we have the impression – as do some of our friends in the un system, in the arab world, but also a little bit farther away in africa and asia – that especially in this moment where it is so difficult to keep the perspective alive, that the voices of wisdom and realism need to be heard and need to speak up. this is why we have, as the objective was fading away, kept our position and our work at full speed and with all our strength. this explains our position on all recent developments. first, on settlements: we have always believed that border changes can only be decided through direct negotiations between the parties based on the pre—1967 borders. israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territory are illegal under international law. they constitute an obstacle to peace and threaten to make a two—state solution impossible. in addition, settlement activity in east jerusalem seriously jeopardises the possibility of jerusalem serving as the future capital of both states. we have never shied away from restating this position, including just a week ago, and it is a united european position. i frequently hear many people inviting us to speak with one voice. in difficult times in difficult years, this has remained and remains the strong united european union position. our position is also clear and unchanged regarding the security of the state of israel. firing rockets on israel’s civilian population is simply unacceptable, and i’m grateful to egypt for their diplomatic efforts, which helped to stop the recent escalation. and i will repeat once again: israel has the right to security, israelis have the right to security. but we are also convinced that security will only be sustainable and real if it is built on peace and on a two-state solution. as you know, in recent years we have also worked constantly to alleviate the suffering of the people of gaza. with the gaza desalination plant we are providing concrete and long—lasting support which will benefit hospitals, schools, enterprises and every citizen of gaza. yet the crisis in gaza is inherently political in nature and requires a political solution. the closure must end and crossings must be fully opened. at the same time it is also clear that gaza is part of the future state of palestine and that palestinians themselves must find unity beyond their divisions. we know that the current political outlook is uncertain, both in palestine and in israel. discussions among palestinian factions have not yet led to a substantial reconciliation. president abbas has announced his intention to set a date for elections. and on the israeli side, the political stalemate continues and might lead to an unprecedented situation with the third election in just one year. it is my firm conviction that, with courageous leadership, a return to negotiations is possible. i am still convinced today, five years after my first visit as a high representative in palestine and israel, that that is the goal and that is realistically achievable. actually, i’m convinced that this is the only achievable, sustainable, realistic solution to this conflict. and let me say, personally i’m also deeply convinced that, out of all the crises and conflicts of the region of the middle east, this is probably the easiest to settle in concrete terms, provided – and this is the most difficult thing to achieve – there is political will among the parties and among the international players to accompany this process. there won’t be peace without a strong political commitment by both sides and by the international community. on the european union side, we have always been, and we will continue to be – i’m sure about that – ready to support, to encourage and to accompany all efforts to build peace and security and a negotiated two—state solution for israel and palestine.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for these five years of frank exchange of views with you here. what you have just said on the subject of israel and palestine, i understand, was probably one of the hardest things you have had to deal with. i fully support her and i certainly share much of what she has said in a situation which, of course, will not be resolved immediately, but in which we are all trying in good faith, from different angles, to participate so that there can finally be a peace, which will bring stability not only to the region, from this terrible conflict which has been wearing it out for years, but also to us, the europeans, and the rest of the world. congratulations, vice president, on the job you did. and, in our case, i want to say clearly that israel is a preferred strategic partner with whom we share history and values. we are, after all, the european union and israel, democracies striving to promote our principles and our vision of a world that respects the right of other states and peoples to assist each other throughout the world. israel is concerned about your safety. it's logical and normal. we all saw how the cloud of rockets that came out of gaza started. it is also true that it would be good if there were no climbing stairs, and we welcome the fact that this has finally stopped. we cannot do that with our statements; and i always have a little bit of the feeling that we are always talking based on what the americans say. let us see if we in the european union react and act on our own in this matter. i think we can contribute to dialogue, we can contribute to peace in our own way. i think it's important not to get carried away by tweets and statements. i think it is important that we work, that members of the knesset come, as they are coming - i have asked for this and they will come, i believe, in two weeks' time to the strasbourg plenary - that also, at executive level, those ministerial meetings which were interrupted continue, and that we continue with that dialogue. and then, the work we can do. the labelling of products from the settlement areas is a big mistake. i think it is the other way around, the european union should be working with israel and the palestinians and helping the development of the region. i think it would be necessary to make a new approach that gives greater prosperity to the area. perhaps, with that, we can actually help to put an end to this. some of the communist comrades on the far left are already laughing. we'll listen to them, of course. i don't want to insult anyone, i don't want to mess with anyone. i think that between the palestinians and the israelis, the european union could do the right thing. let's do it and see. there was no reference to palestine in my speech, nor was there any attack on palestine. we'll see what some of the guys have to say. i listen very carefully.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we are extremely concerned about the recent us statement. only days after yet another round of violence in and around the gaza strip, us state secretary pompeo announced a major u-turn of us policy towards israeli settlements. he declared, and i quote: ‘the establishment of israel’s civilian settlements in the west bank is not, per se, inconsistent with international law’. this declaration clearly goes against the 4th geneva convention, un security council resolutions and the 2004 opinion of the international court of justice. i welcome and fully support the immediate and strong reaction by you, high representative. israeli settlements are illegal under international law and israel has the obligation to end all settlement activity as an occupying power. pompeo’s announcement is yet another example of the trump administration’s obsessive support for prime minister netanyahu. this includes the recognition of jerusalem as israel’s capital, moving the us embassy there and recognising israel’s sovereignty over the occupied golan heights. it seems that the trump administration, instead of coming up with the so-called deal of the century, has decided to play with escalating the conflict at the expense of palestinians, israelis and the international community at large. president trump must understand that the middle east is not his foreign policy playground. it is the home of millions of israelis and palestinians striving for peace, day after day. the steady increase in israeli settlements in the west bank, including in east jerusalem, clearly undermines the prospect of any viable two-state solution. this is our only hope for a just and lasting peace in the region. it is in this spirit that we also support the recent ruling by the european court of justice about the labelling of israeli settlement products in the eu market.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam high representative, first of all i would like to thank you very much. we have debated here very often, until very late at night, for the last five years. i always enjoyed debating with you. i think we have debated israel and palestine most often, by the way. you said it was your first shipment outside the eu. well, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the situation in israel and palestine has been the subject of the greatest number of debates in the last parliament, because it concerns us and because it continues to concern us. if we just look at the fact that israel has been building 12,000 homes in the west bank every year since 2017, that 26 illegal outposts have been built, and that no less than 6,000 palestinian buildings have been destroyed in the west bank since 2009, including buildings financed with european taxpayers' money, i think it should be clear. israel is working step by step towards a one-state reality, towards a fragmentation of the palestinian territory where there will be no place for the palestinians at all. we can't let this happen. i've always liked to hear you say, political will is needed. europe stands for an international legal order based on rules. it is up to us to oppose the power politics of netanyahu and trump, the settlement policy which they are deliberately escalating. it is up to us, europe, to continue to fight for that two-state solution, which i believe is the only solution. madam high representative, it will probably be one of your last debates here in the strasbourg plenary. i therefore ask you, and your successor, to oppose any decision that represents a step backwards in the peace process, to take a strong stand when our projects are destroyed and to speak out unequivocally - as you did against trump and netanyahu - when a decision violates international law. madam high representative, you have the support of this parliament, and i want to thank you again and wish you every success in your future career, career or whatever you do.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the trump administration’s move to recognise the illegal settlements in the west bank is just the latest in a litany of deeply destructive interventions from a government that seems determined to wreck any chance of peace. by recognising the illegal settlements, the united states has once again put itself outside the norms of international law. it has supported those that seek to ensure that any future palestinian state would be unviable. israel’s right to exist is beyond debate. any country’s right to illegally occupy territory seized in military conflicts is not beyond debate. there are differing views, i know, across the chamber in regard to this conflict, but i believe there is a common wish to see a lasting peaceful solution that represents both sides. each step along the road to occupation and annexation is a step away from a stable two-state agreement. what does it mean for the eu? firstly, we know that the us has not been, and will not be, a reliable partner in this process while the current administration is in place. the eu is therefore the leading world power interested in promoting a lasting solution for the region and willing to act as an honest broker between peace-seeking elements in both governments. secondly, we need to consider how we as an economic union can influence the situation. i do not, and will not, support the bds movement but, nor can i support the economic activities taking place on stolen land in contravention of international law. in the irish senate i supported a bill from my colleague senator frances black to prohibit goods from illegal settlements being imported into ireland, a measure that would only have called on the irish government to make real its commitment to the provisions of the geneva conventions. currently goods grown or produced in illegal settlements in the west bank are being imported into the eu as part of a trade agreement with israel that does not extend to the territories. i would ask you to consider how, and why, that is allowed to continue?
mr president, at the outset i just want to say that i respect israel’s right to exist and protect itself and to live in peace and security in the middle east. but having said that, and having visited the west bank and seen first—hand what occupation is doing in terms of undermining the existence of the palestinian state, let us be under no illusions. the idea that israel can continually encroach on palestinian lands is simply designed to undermine any chance of a two—state solution coming about. the palestinian state is being slowly dismantled in front of our eyes, and jared kushner, the us envoy, simply is not seen as an honest broker in the middle east, he’s not seen as an honest broker by the palestinians. and we have to accept that europe must play a more active role in being that honest broker, supporting israel’s right to exist and, at the same time, ensuring that the two—state solution is the cornerstone of any future peace process. equally, i sponsored a bill in the irish parliament a number of years ago with regard to produce from illegal settlements. and i would urge that the european union would look at that, not only in the context of illegal settlements in the west bank, but across the globe.
mr president, the us secretary of state’s announcement that the us no longer considers israeli settlements on occupied palestinian land to be illegal is appalling. the trump administration has done all it can to destabilise and bury the two- state solution: moving its embassy to jerusalem, ending funding to the un palestinian refugee agency, and recognising israeli sovereignty over the golan heights. the settlements remain illegal. mr trump’s approval does not change international law. our union was quick to reaffirm that all settlement activity is illegal, that it erodes the viability of the two-state solution and the prospects for a lasting peace, and that it should be ended. palestinian representatives have rightly condemned the decision as a threat to the global order and one that destroys us credibility in the peace process. we must continue to present a united position on settlements. they are illegal under international law, they present an obstacle to peace, and they threaten the viability of a two-state solution. we urge the israeli government to halt its counter-productive settlement expansion.
mr president, ms mogherini has criticised illegal israeli settlements at times, and rightly so, but the eu has refused to take decisive action against israel. we have no control over the fact that the us allows them to be lawless in how they treat the palestinians. truth be told, israel practises apartheid at home and genocide in palestine. you said there was always hope for the two—state solution. the two—state solution is dead, it is beyond recovery. we need a one—state solution now, where the palestinians and the israelis both have an entitlement to full democratic human rights, and a return of the palestinian refugees to their homeland. anything else is not going to work anymore. and what the us is doing with israel, they can only do because the eu and europe tolerate it.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs mogherini for her work throughout the term. we have discussed the situation in the middle east many times here, and i must admit that we have not been entirely in agreement on this subject. i believe that our policy towards the iranian regime has been too positive, too idealistic, and it now appears that it will be up to the new commission to assess how much we need to tighten up in this area. the demands of the people of the middle east are completely legitimate, the social conditions are appalling, the corruption is enormous, the regime in each country is a little different, but i am convinced that the biggest problem is in the iranian regime. the new commission will have to reconsider whether we should not be a little tougher on the iranian regime and make it clear that the iranian regime is unfortunately the source of destabilisation in the middle east today and the source of human rights suppression. on the other hand, we must do everything to ensure that the islamists do not take advantage of this opportunity and strengthen their position in this area.
madam president, vice-president mogherini, on this day when we voted broadly for the von der leyen commission, i join in the recognition of your work over these five years - which has been very hard - and of your constancy in this european parliament at this late hour, debating the situation in three middle eastern countries with very little in common with each other, except instability and protests. lebanon owes much of its instability to iranian intrusion in recent years. and between iraq and iran there was a very bloody war. the most worrying situation by far is that of iran, precisely because it is the one that has lasted the longest; because it is the one that has been the most repressive towards women; because it is the one that has the highest number of death sentences carried out; and because in the recent protests it has also shown an unacceptable death toll: nearly a hundred deaths, including that of nikta esfandani, a girl of only fourteen years old. the use of force, as reported by all international organizations, is not only disproportionate but systematic, brutally repressing all dissent, and that is simply unacceptable. we support the nuclear deal, but we cannot remain silent in the face of this systematic brutality by the iranian regime.
madam president, we really just can’t stand by and ignore what is happening in iran. both the eu and the international community has got to absolutely denounce the intentional lethal use of force by the revolutionary guards, the iranian police and the plainclothes agents of the iranian regime. the deaths of some 143 people have been carefully documented by amnesty international, but they believe that the death toll is significantly higher. most of those who have been killed have been shot – like nikta esfandiari. she was 14 years old. she was shot in the head. her family searched for her for three days before they were given her body by the officials of the regime. our response so far has been woefully inadequate. we have got to demand that the leaders of the regime face justice for their crimes. there must be no joint commission with iran while the iranian regime is perpetrating crimes against humanity.
madam president, i was actually very glad to hear ms mogherini talk about europe’s continued opposition to the unilateral withdrawal of the us from the iranian nuclear deal and the efforts to attempt to salvage that programme. but i think we have to go further and we have to acknowledge that the imposition of sanctions to coerce iran has caused immense hardship on iranian citizens and the poor and the vulnerable in particular – the very people that we are protesting that we need to defend. we now have the spectacle of the us attempting to exploit the legitimate and authentic protests in iraq and lebanon in order to target iran. i think we should be very careful not to fall for that trap. mike pompeo says the protests are caused by iranian corruption. these are real people, with real problems: corruption, under—development, a wrecked economy. the iraqis are still dealing with the after—effects of the iraq war. we should not allow ourselves to fall into the trap of us manipulation. we must work for stability in iran and iraq and lebanon, and peace in syria and yemen and oppose the us—saudi attempts to isolate iran.
madam president, i too found ms mogherini’s contribution on iran more balanced than a lot of the others i heard in here tonight. but the particulars and differences of the unfolding events in iran, iraq and lebanon are huge. that being said, there is something that these countries have in common. they’ve all suffered from relentless foreign interference in their affairs, regime change, wars, civil wars, long-standing economic sanctions, and the pillage of natural and public resources by politicians, bankers, billionaires and global corporations. there are people dying in these different countries. any killing of peaceful protesters by iranian police has to be condemned by us. obviously, it doesn’t help matters that some foreign entities are funding opposition groups inside iran in order to destabilise the government. we should also condemn any deaths of protesters in iraq and lebanon. likewise, we should condemn the death of protesters in bolivia and iran. let’s keep it even.
mr president, the recent murder of two romanian forest rangers highlights the urgent need to protect europe’s environmental defenders and to save europe’s last old—growth forests. more than 160 environmental defenders were murdered in 2018, and thousands more were criminalised and hounded in countries such as the philippines, india, brazil and colombia. we do need effective eu legislation that establishes a mandatory human rights and environmental due—diligence framework for companies and financial institutions that are eu—based or that provide goods or services in the eu so as to make companies accountable for the impact of their activities. we are well aware of the much abuse of forests in brazil at the moment, with the deforestation that’s taking place. the eu is complicit by the trade deals we’re doing with them. mercosur will increase deforestation and we should not go down that path. not only will it destroy small farms in europe but it is going to destroy more forests. we should not sign that deal.
mr president, josé daniel ferrer was arbitrarily detained and must be released immediately. but mr ferrer's case is just one of many examples of the serious human rights violations that continue to occur in cuba. mr ferrer is one of the 127 known political prisoners in a country which has signed an agreement with the european union which has as its central element respect for human rights and the defence of democracy. in 2017, this house approved the agreement with cuba on the condition that it contribute to improving human rights and living conditions for all cubans. two years later, that condition is not being met. it is time for the european union to speak out. cuba is not complying with the agreement. we therefore have no choice but to take action, without further delay, within the framework of the agreement.
for the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative of the european union, the case of josé daniel ferrer shows that communist cuba is not living with the memory of its past. instead of opening up and engaging in dialogue with the opposition and those who criticize it, it shows that it must imprison and torture again those who fight for freedom and democracy. i had the opportunity to visit josé daniel ferrer in santiago de cuba and i had the opportunity to speak with him repeatedly. i do not think he is a terrorist, as some of the cuban and pro-cuban forces in this house have been telling us. he is simply a man who wants to live in a democratic country, a man who loves his country, a man who would breathe for it, a man who was born there and wants to die there, and a man who respects all the things that we respect in the european union. that's why i'm calling, commissioner, to use your connections to the cuban regime to press for his immediate release.
the s&d group therefore calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. for more than a decade, he has been the victim of abuse by the cuban authorities because of his peaceful political activities. he's not the only one. some 120 journalists, human rights defenders and peaceful dissidents are currently imprisoned in cuba. on 28 october, armando sosa fortuny, the longest-serving prisoner, died in prison after 43 years in prison. according to international human rights standards, josé daniel ferrer and all other prisoners have the right to know the reasons for their detention and to have access to a fair trial. i therefore call on the cuban authorities to respect these international laws and to stop the constant attacks on people exercising their freedom of expression. to do this, it is imperative that the cuban government guarantees freedom of the press, association and demonstration. we therefore call on them to respect the international standards set out in the charter and in the international declarations and instruments to which the country is a signatory, in particular the political dialogue agreement to which you referred, madam high representative, on cooperation with the european union, which requires respect for human rights.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, and my respect to you, mrs mogherini. in 2016, the european union signed a treaty with cuba that has as an essential component and condition the respect for human rights and democracy. this parliament, in its resolution of july 2017, conditioned it by approving a suspension clause. today cuba has more than a hundred political prisoners and thousands of arbitrary arrests. josé daniel ferrer is not a brutal anecdote. it is a category that shows that nothing has changed in cuba, that it is still the totalitarian regime of the castro dynasty. and i want to remind you that the economy in cuba is not the tourist palaces but the political-military complex of gaesa, led by a former nephew of raúl castro. it's all in the family. the european union cannot continue to turn a blind eye to reality. if we're gonna put business before ethics, let's be consistent. let's eliminate the items we don't want to meet. let us recognize that our north is in that pair of the poet quevedo: "mighty knight is don money".
madam president, i would of course like to condemn the detention and prolonged imprisonment of mr josé daniel ferrer in cuba. i want to ask for his release and, of course, a fair trial, because his accusation is clearly based on a flimsy foundation. we should be in dialogue with the cuban government, i have nothing against that, but that does not mean that we will turn a blind eye to such cases of clear violation of human rights in cuba. it's not just this case, we continue to have over a hundred other political prisoners in cuban jails. i think we should condemn this action of the cuban government in a very clear way and ask it to be much more decisive in its actions to deal with its past. the czech republic has always supported cuban dissidents, and i will of course be no exception in this case, and i would like to ask the high representative to use her influence to secure the release of not only mr ferrer but also other political prisoners detained in cuba.
madam president, cuba is a shining example of what is possible against all the odds, with the most aggressive and violent power in the world for decades trying to overthrow your government, assassinate your leader and force your country into poverty and instability through sanctions; one of the first victims of the cia regime-change formula. the us state department wrote in 1960 of its failing campaign against cuba that a programme of action should ‘make the greatest inroads in denying money and supplies to cuba, to decrease monetary and real wages, to bring about hunger, desperation and overthrow of government’, and, sadly, they’re still at it. the truth of this: ferrer was arrested on suspicion of the abduction and hospitalisation of a cuban citizen. he is a right-wing agitator with a long history of violence, with close ties to the us. but this is really about attacking cuba. it is about inflicting further economic sanctions and it is about trying to prevent the normalisation of relations with the us.
madam president, i would like to strongly oppose the content and intent of this outrageous motion. its intent is to undermine and isolate the cuban government and its people, at the behest of the united states, against the backdrop of increased hostility being meted out to that magnificent country and its incredibly resilient people. its content is demonstrably false. josé daniel ferrer is a convicted, violent thug awaiting trial for a violent crime. in the pay of the united states, he’s had all of his rights respected. to hear those who have championed us interventionism and supported unelected puppets in bolivia and venezuela call cuban humanitarian aid, medical care and education to its latin american neighbours ‘interventionism’ is simply outrageous. i salute the excellent work being done by the cuban government. i’m glad the irish government has cordial relations with cuba and, despite this motion, they will continue.
madam president, i supported this motion, and it was, i think, an important debate that we had in the last number of weeks on this particular issue. the fact of the matter is we can no longer deny the science. the science is there – it’s very evident. there is global warming. it has been identified because of the amount of carbon emissions, fossil-fuel burning and how we just exploit our planet, which are the real reasons why we have this emergency. and we have to take, from time to time, the advice of younger generations. there are thousands of people in ireland on every friday – young students protesting, highlighting the deficiencies of effort on behalf of politicians and political leaders across the globe. it is time for us now to accept that we have an emergency and accepting that to respond with an emergency in terms of developing policies that will immediately impact on saving the planet, saving the environment, saving the biodiversity and saving our oceans. it has gone beyond whether or not it is an urgency or an emergency. it is very evident. it is what it is, and we must act now with policies that will address it.
madam president, i voted in favour of the motion for the resolution for the ongoing negotiations of the acp-eu partnership agreement, and i did it in the context of the fact that we are now in a globalised world. i think that dialogue is critically important, and i believe that some form of parliamentary assembly that would allow people to discuss in an open forum the challenges facing people in europe, in africa, in the pacific and the caribbean, to deal with these challenges in an open way. human rights, climate change, the rule of law, supporting democracy: they’re all key issues that we should all be involved in. so it should not be europe lecturing to anybody, it should be europe listening, embracing, and others having an opportunity to advocate how we should also address some of the challenges and decisions we make that impact negatively on those countries. so let us establish this joint parliamentary assembly, promote democracy and human rights, champion climate change and ensure that the rule of law is upheld.
madam president, i have to ask you. welcome to the office, vice president. i shall not waste much time in thanking the commission for the work it has done in the last few weeks and congratulating it on this communication. i shall dwell mainly on one question which has caught my attention. it is true that the financial plan for this whole new agenda is still uncertain. i think the commission has quantified the needs well, but we have very important challenges ahead of us. i would like to refer to the vague situation in which the communication leaves the possibility of establishing a border adjustment on imported goods and the import of co2. we're already suffering from a carbon leak right now. companies all over europe are moving out of our continent to produce cheaper, but also to produce by polluting much more, putting at risk the efforts that the european union is making and that we will be making in the coming years. and yet, in their communication they say that they perceive a risk that may materialize and that, if it materializes, they would raise this measure. this measure is necessary and must be taken now.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposals address two points which are particularly close to my heart. first of all, i'm pleased that you're announcing a new and much-needed forestry strategy. however, it pains me that this is reduced to just afforestation and reforestation. these terms are still undefined and we shall have to discuss them intensively here. the new forest strategy must also focus on the multifunctional role of forests. second, farm to fork. i was expecting a comprehensive strategy for sustainable food. so far, however, i see only additional obligations for farmers. as it stands, the strategy does not go beyond 'farm'. there is a lack of proposals on the practicability of these conditions for farmers. in addition, there are no further steps in the supply chain. sustainability of food is not just a matter of production, but also of processing, trade, import and consumer information. the way to the fork, commissioner, you have to complete it here!
madam president, president von der leyen, vice-president timmermans, today you are taking an important step in presenting the european green deal. we’re pleased to say this. we’re pleased to see it. we’ve been waiting some time for it to happen. some people say climate action costs too much. they say it threatens our freedom. they say, ‘go slow’. you must rise above this and show your resolve, because you cannot put a price on a planet that is healthy and safe for our children. in ireland, the society of saint vincent de paul tell us 140 000 people – children – live in homes with leaks, damp and rot. we want a new deal for europe that provides warm homes, tackles fuel poverty and makes jobs and breaks the cycle of poverty. in europe, poor air quality kills half a million people every year. we want to phase out fossil fuels, promote renewables and improve people’s health and save the planet. your transport commissioner’s first recorded meeting, however, was with the heads of ten airlines. why should they have priority boarding when train and bus companies are burdened with unfair taxes? we want – (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i come from timisoara. exactly 30 years ago, i was on the streets in timisoara, with the citizens of timisoara, and for the truth, please understand that the revolution is not of one person or a group of people. the revolution is of the romanians, of the timisoara people who lit the flame and who carried this flame, as they shouted: "today in timisoara, tomorrow throughout the country!" this is the truth about the revolution: it was a popular uprising, people came out of the factories, from all the factories, from all the corners of timisoara. we started calling in other cities: "get out of the street!" because in bucharest they didn't know what timisoara was. allow me, as it is a memorial, to bow to the thousands of dead, to the timisoara people who sacrificed themselves first, to the romanians who came out without weapons, with open arms to those who came to shoot them, simply to shoot them. i think we have a duty, dear colleagues and european institutions, to respect the romanian people. the romanian people are pro-european. don't go by information and by certain leaders. the romanian people are pro-european. our place is in the european union and out of respect, now, 30 years later, i ask you, the commission, the council, the parliament, to respect the rights of romanians, european citizens. give us credibility because yes, in 30 years, in romania a lot has changed. you may not know how much, but we invite you to our home and dear romanians, wherever you live, we ask you for unity, solidarity and love your country.
madam president, i was a student leader in ireland 30 years ago and, inspired by the heroism of romanian students and workers, i travelled to bucharest and timișoara and spent over a month there in the midst of those revolutionary days. i have to say that it was one of the most defining experiences of my youth to witness the overthrow of ceaușescu’s brutal totalitarian regime, an elite which enriched themselves at the expense of the population and developed a vicious secret police and state apparatus to do so. it was an absolutely incredible experience. to feel the hopes of the population for the future, for democracy, for a say in their lives and for a more stable economic experience was very humbling. but we have to be honest as well, because what did they get? in many ways they got much of the same elite in new clothes, combined also with a new elite – a new neoliberal elite – and many people have unresolved issues there. we have to ask why romania has got the second biggest diaspora in the world, second only to syria – five million driven out of that country. there is a lot of corruption still to tackle. so i stand continually in solidarity with those people. the revolution has not been completed there.
mr president, i will be raising grave concerns about this particular motion in many contexts, but i think one issue that i would like to bring to parliament’s attention is in the context of the european union acting unilaterally on further recommendations of the oecd beps 2.0 report – the idea that we can somehow bring about fair taxation and globalised taxation without actually having the rest of the world involved in these discussions and acting in accordance with some of the proposals that have come forward. because we would undermine our competitiveness as a european union. we would discourage investment into the european union. let us be very, very clear. the european union is struggling in the context of its competing with the rest of the world in the digital and global economy. we have very few multinationals that have actually started in the european union and have blossomed and grown internationally. so the idea that we can just unilaterally act without having the rest of the world – the united states and other large trading partners – involved in that process would undermine the european union’s competitiveness and discourage multinationals from locating here and employing eu citizens.
mr president, when the united kingdom leaves the european union, the rest of the remaining countries will have no university in the top 30 worldwide. so, from the point of view of european union investment in horizon europe, we need to ensure that there’s a concentrated effort across the european union from the commission and the council – and the member states – to invest in research, innovation, technology and digitisation. we are talking about transitioning to a carbon neutral economy yet we don’t have the capacities because we don’t have the capacity in our universities and we don’t have the graduates that are flowing from that. it is a major inhibitor on growth in the eurozone area and the broader european union. so we have to stimulate investment, encourage universities to take up grant aid from horizon europe and to ensure that member states – which education is the competency of – have the capacity to invest in third level colleges in their own areas. this is something we’re denying them at the moment because of the stability and growth pact. we need to start investing in research and innovation and that starts in our universities.
madam president, the story here isn’t actually about a few bad apples robbing eu funds and the need for the commission to do more. the problem is actually the system itself. now, of course i have no difficulty in acknowledging the corruption exposed in the recent cap subsidies scandal in the likes of hungary and bulgaria. i’ve actually spoken about the corruption in bulgaria on numerous occasions in committee here. we have to get real. we can’t, on the one hand, come in here and talk about corruption and then agree to, for example, the lifting of the cbn. we can’t go on about tackling crime and corruption and invite individuals like bulgaria’s disputed mr geshev, the state prosecutor, in here. but i think the biggest scandal about the cap subsidies is that, when journalists started asking questions, they were blocked by the commission itself: stonewalled and not allowed to get information. this is a eur 58 billion programme. it should be open to scrutiny. and when the commission doesn’t allow itself to be open to scrutiny and transparency, it too is complicit.
madam president, the recent new york times report on the abuse of cap subsidies is damning and undermines the trust and governance of cap subsidies and how the funds are spent. the report reveals that cap subsidies underwrite european oligarchs, mobsters and far-right populists. the report also showed that some national leaders used the money to enrich friends, political allies and family members, and yet the current cap reform proposals want to give national governments more power and flexibility over how cap money is spent. only yesterday, the irish agriculture minister, michael creed, put internal convergence on hold for the transition period of cap. it means that he’s going to direct payments away from farmers with the lowest per-hectare values in favour of rewarding those with the highest values per hectare. it’s state-organised malpractice and eu citizens have a legitimate expectation to be treated equally. what is the commission going to do? are they going to allow member states to behave abysmally like this?
mr president, by next year, 2020, it is estimated that one in five europeans will have a disability, totalling 120 million people. it is therefore imperative that we continue to take action to ensure that those one—in—five people have the opportunity to contribute to our society in the most meaningful way. this will not be action, let’s remember, for a small proportion of the population, but rather for every fifth person that you see on the street or sit next to on the bus, for all europeans therefore – people with disabilities, their families, their friends, our communities – i would urge the commission to ensure that a new eu disability strategy is in place at the end of 2020 and to ensure a smooth transition between the two strategies. we know that the current strategy is wide ranging, covering many areas including training, healthcare and so on, but really this is no good if there are not the resources in place. we need to provide the resources as negotiations on the post-2020 mf continue, so we have a unique opportunity to earmark the kind of funding that is necessary. we must ensure that every personal and societal opportunity is given. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the eu disability strategy is of great importance to many europeans. i would like to draw the attention of the parliament and the commission to a number of points. one in six people in the european union has a disability ranging from mild to severe, which means that some 80 million europeans are prevented from participating fully in social and economic life because of environmental barriers and attitudes. and the poverty rate for people with disabilities is 70 percent higher than the european average, also due to limited employment opportunities. the aim of the strategy must therefore be to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and to eliminate discrimination and social exclusion. the creation of a society that ensures the full social inclusion of these people will also open up new opportunities for the development of european markets and economies. this document recalls the responsibility of the european union and the member states to improve the social and economic situation of disabled people. this is a very important commitment. according to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities are those who have a long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment that may prevent them from participating fully and effectively in public life. the european strategy should therefore define the actions and mechanisms needed to implement the un convention in the european union so that persons with disabilities do not experience social exclusion.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of cop 25 (2019/2998 ((rsp)). i would also like to remind you that you can ask for the opportunity to speak spontaneously and to use the blue card both in the usual way and by means of the electronic system. the instructions for use are still on display at the entrance to the chamber.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the outcome of the cop25, which has just finished in madrid. you are certainly aware that the conference ended 42 hours after schedule – a delay which is testimony to the difficulties encountered during the negotiations. with your permission, i will come back to these difficulties in a moment. i would like to point out some important progress that was made in the eu’s climate policy last week. firstly, last wednesday the commission presented the european green deal, which is a road map to embed climate action into all policies. secondly, one of the main priorities of the finnish presidency was reached in the european council which, after a long debate, endorsed the objective of achieving a climate neutral eu by 2050, in line with the objectives of the paris agreement. however, one member state at this stage was not able to commit to implementing this objective as far as it was concerned, and the european council will come back to this member state’s position in june 2020. the decision by the european council is a step forward. the eu has now agreed on the common objective of climate neutrality and all the member states but one have committed to implementing it. it is important that the work continues and that next year all member states will commit to its implementation. now, honourable members, coming back to the madrid conference. i would like to recall what was at stake at the conference, both for the planet and for the eu. cop25 had three major objectives. first and foremost, to finalise the rule book on the issue of the carbon market, as laid down in article 6 of the paris agreement. second, to complete the review of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage, and finally to agree on the extension and revision of the gender action plan. on these objectives the eu negotiation position was clear. the rules on article 6 should ensure robust accounting for the use of international carbon markets, should avoid double counting and should also guarantee environmental integrity. concerning the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage, the eu should resist calls to create additional institutional mechanisms, but should support instead solutions that would provide for countries to effectively address loss and damage associated with climate change. as to the gender action plan, the eu was supportive of an extension and revision which strengthens gender considerations and women’s participation in climate action. on 2 december, addressing the conference on behalf of the eu, the presidency made it clear that, in front of this climate emergency – the one this parliament declared last month – we had to change our approach dramatically and embrace the green revolution. our objective being to make europe the first climate—neutral continent on the planet by 2050. indeed, during these two weeks of negotiations, it became increasingly clear that there was an elephant in the room – ambition, which was not on the agenda of this cop – turned out to be a major issue. a number of parties, together with ngos, the youth with greta thunberg, and the public at large, in their thousands in the streets of madrid, called on the cop to do more to address the climate emergency. here i salute our team of negotiators who spared no effort and worked literally 24/7 to achieve the best possible results. their task was made extremely difficult because a small number of parties either refused to engage or insisted on mechanisms under article 6 that could potentially be the death knell of the paris agreement. until the very last hours of the cop, the eu showed the maximum possible flexibility in view of striking a deal which would preserve environmental integrity. unfortunately it proved impossible. ladies and gentlemen, there are several lessons to be drawn from this experience. first, standing by its principles for the common good, the eu is increasingly recognised as the champion and the main actor of the paris agreement. by launching the eu green deal we translate our words into action. second, great progress has been made. although no agreement was reached on article 6, the quality of the texts on the table has significantly improved. an agreement on these texts at the cop26 in glasgow next year seems within reach. third, we read in the news that the results of the cop are disappointing, but we should look at what has been achieved. the review of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage and of the framework for capacity building have been successfully completed, and the gender action plan has been extended. and it was agreed that the work on the global climate action agenda would continue beyond 2020. so, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, the eu will continue to negotiate the implementation of the paris agreement in the same spirit. in 2020 the parties will have to update their nationally—determined contributions and submit their long—term strategy. i would take this opportunity to call on all parties to update their nationally—determined contributions in a manner that reflects their highest possible ambition. i look forward to this debate and i thank you very much for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the european union and its member states, as was shown by the member states present, the delegation of the european parliament and the commission, stand firm behind the paris agreement. we stand firm behind the global transition to a climate-neutral future and the commission believes in a green deal for europe to lead the way. the cop in madrid is now behind us. it did not deliver what we had travelled there for on international carbon markets and on other issues. for europe, there were some bridges that we just could not cross if we want to lead on climate; if we wanted to stay credible towards our international partners; if we wanted to respond to the young people in the streets and to citizens here at home in europe who are asking for action and a plan for the climate. to put it plainly, we could not support global rules that would undermine the very integrity of global climate action. we could not endorse an outcome that would take us back on climate instead of taking us, and the rest of the world, forward. but now, we, in europe, will be looking forward. we will build on the global consensus to work next year to increase climate ambitions worldwide. i noticed, and i think many of us who were there noticed, that the world is watching us, and they know that our task is more urgent than ever. last week we presented in your parliament the european green deal, which is our proposed roadmap to take climate action across all our policies. we have committed to climate neutrality by 2050, and we set out a timeline to increase our ambition for our emissions reductions in 2030. that’s europe’s momentum to increase ambitions worldwide and we will work relentlessly next year to do this. and i have to say that there were quite a number of countries in madrid who were interested by this and who want to talk to us to see whether we can create alliances and help them do the same. by cop26 in glasgow, we intend to propose to update our nationally determined contributions to tackle climate change. we also need to submit our long-term strategies in line with the paris objectives and in the european union we are ready for this. we cannot afford to leave anyone behind. at the cop in madrid, europe showed solidarity with the countries that are most vulnerable to climate change. we must make sure that we help the most vulnerable in their climate efforts so that they are taken along in this effort, that they have the capacity to deal with the changes so that they find courage and hope in a better, sustainable future. you know, nothing makes such an impression as talking to representatives from countries that can quite literally disappear if we don’t do anything about climate change. so i think that we can build the capacity to deal with the changes so that we, together with them, can find the solutions. this is what our citizens want, in europe. they want it also for people outside of europe. the eu and its member states already provide more than 40% of the global climate finance. europe will continue to scale it up in line with the paris agreement, so we remain firmly committed to boosting global climate finance and to supporting developing countries. we remain committed to achieving the usd 100 billion financial goal and financing the key funds under the convention and paris agreement. we look forward to the commencement of deliberations on the post-2025 goal at cop26, to submitting information on our finance beyond 2020 next year, and to taking further action to align global finance with the paris goals. this commission and this parliament know that people are calling for action, and that in fact they are taking action on the streets themselves to push us for more ambition and a concrete climate plan. most of us who have children know they talk to us at home – what are you doing? are you doing enough? you should be doing more! it’s a good thing. it’s a good thing to see this young generation lead us. it’s a good thing to see that the 16-year-old climate activist was named person of the year by time magazine. it’s good that this generation is taking this huge responsibility. i think our green deal responds to the calls. the green deal is a start for europe to reinvent itself, to base our wealth and our well—being not just on carbon, to get rid of that as an essential element. i believe it’s a once in a lifetime opportunity to deliver a greener and cleaner future for our citizens, without leaving anyone behind. next year, on the global stage, we will work with our partners to raise global ambitions. we will fight to make sure that we all face head-on the urgent challenges of climate change. i know we can count on this parliament to do that, and i know that this parliament understands that the fact that europe has only 9% of emissions does not give us an excuse to not do anything, because i’ve also seen in madrid that if we lead, others will follow. if we lead, others will be convinced to go the same way. if we lead, those who are hesitating today will no longer be hesitating tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would have been good, especially with article 6, if we had achieved a good result. but we, as the european parliament's delegation, have always said to the commission and the council: better no deal on article 6 than a bad deal. because there was a risk of falling behind the paris agreement, that the old world, where not all the states have obligations, should be rescued into the new period, where states like brazil have obligations to do something themselves and not just allow trade in questionable certificates to take place in their country. it was therefore right that the commission and the council should have remained strict here. outside the official negotiating rooms, there has been a positive development: for several years now, i have systematically asked our partners in japan, south africa, mexico and many other large countries: what are you doing to increase your climate target? and until a few months ago, it was always very quiet. in some cases they did not know what we were talking about, when we in europe talk about greater ambitions and sometimes we have passed laws that go beyond paris, then they did not know what we were talking about. that's changed. we will find partners, for example with canada, but also with the countries listed. and we need to keep up the pressure. that is why the international dimension of climate policy is more important than ever. that's why the epp wants a high-level climate ambassador. mr. vice president, there are only 24 hours in a day. you can't do everything by yourself. but i know that this is a priority for you, too. and we must act together. because only if the european union leads, but also takes others along, can we really avoid dangerous climate change.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. vice president and commissioner! i would like to begin by sending a clear message to the citizens of europe that we in this delegation certainly went to madrid with the highest expectations and with a strong political message from the european parliament. but in retrospect, i have to say, as have all the previous speakers, that madrid, despite the good hospitality of spain and madrid, did not deliver politically what we have the right to expect as citizens. the rulebook that was supposed to be a strong endorsement of the paris agreement was not successful at all. despite lengthy negotiations and very good intentions, not least from the eu side, no agreement on the rulebook was reached. this is very negative and i would say downright irresponsible on the part of the countries which should be held accountable for this, such as brazil, the united states and russia, which took a very destructive line. the only consolation is that a bad deal would have been worse than no deal. in fact, a weak regulatory framework could have undermined our ability to make 2020 a stronger climate year. i would also like to commend the commission for its work and frans timmermans for his hard work in madrid, also for the green deal which will indeed be a 'game changer' for europe, but thereby also send a clear message from the eu to the rest of the world that we are even more clearly ready to take a lead together with the constructive forces that listen to science and young people. this is the only way forward. it has to be clear. we must do more to reduce our emissions in europe and in the eu, but we also have to keep up the pressure on the international community for glasgow, and it is good that we are united in that message. it is also important that everyone takes responsibility, all sectors, all countries, all political levels. and we social democrats from the socialist group will be a very important part of that work and push for higher ambition.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would actually like to start by thanking the commissioner, with the too long title, for the way in which he kept us informed during the days in madrid. we had a strong feeling that we were in the loop. the same gratefulness goes also to the finnish presidency, especially one old policy advisor from the parliament who was a very eager person, who informed us at almost every step. so we knew what was going on, and what was going on was really disturbing. after coming back from madrid, i tried to quantify what was actually at stake. a report from the us department of energy says that the amount of russian allowances is about 884 million tonnes, probably the same amount as in china. so had we given in during the negotiations, there wouldn’t have been any policy left. so we did the thing we had to do. for my part, the most touching discussion we had was actually with the delegation from the united states. there’s an old saying in american politics: the shining city on the hill. that was used in 1630 when the first pilgrims left for the eastern coast. that was a mark of being a leading state in the world. today, the us is not the shining city on the hill anymore. so congratulations, commissioner, i think we are the shining example when we speak about environmental policy in the world in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the finnish presidency and the commissioner for their contributions in madrid in trying to make something out of this. but let’s be honest: madrid was a disappointment. it was clearly a disappointment. it has been stated before. we came to madrid with little on the agenda, and even that we didn’t manage to conclude. and that does not bode well for next year in glasgow, because then it needs to happen. in glasgow, that’s the moment where we can really raise our ambition. and it’s needed. we are still on a track of warming more than three degrees, with all the devastating consequences, and the world is bickering about details, about allowances, taking them from old to new periods, or here in the parliament, the epp is saying that we need a climate envoy. this kind of institutional battling doesn’t help the climate. what helps is really more ambition from europe, and what is important there is that we need it on time. this is really a question to the commissioner: how do you see 2020 evolving? because this is going to be a crucial year. how are we going to make it happen that europe is on time with increasing its ambition so that in september, when there is the eu-china summit in leipzig, we can really try to get china on board with more ambition? because that is absolutely needed in order to create dynamics when we go to glasgow and also to get other partners in the world at a higher ambition level. this kind of choreography is a bit unclear so far, and i would like to hear from the commissioner what his view is on how he sees 2020. a final comment: the role of some of the countries was clearly just blocking, and one of them was brazil. and i would also like to hear, both from the council and the commission: will this have repercussions for the trade deal that is on the table – mercosur? we all know it will not pass anyhow; there are already countries saying that they will vote against. so this is also the moment to really become serious about sustainability demands within our trade deals, and mercosur should be the first.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the 2015 paris agreement confirmed the parties' determination to radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. some even claimed that once adopted, there would no longer be a need to protect the union industry from global competition. but a general treaty written on paper is one thing, and the specific provisions to implement it are another. the second one was too difficult. the katowice code of conduct was a major step forward in this area, but the rules on market mechanisms provided for in article 6 were missing. cop 25 was dedicated to this one issue, and this is the issue that was not addressed. the reason is obvious: these market mechanisms are the source of income for many parties to the paris agreement, and they do not want to give them up. and we still have problems with transparency. china has consistently shown that it does not want too much transparency in its reporting, which casts doubt on its sincerity. so today we can hardly say that the rules for protecting our industry from global competition from countries with weaker climate solutions are obsolete. we still need that protection, perhaps more than ever, especially in the face of the green deal we are about to enact. what about the european economy?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, cop25 was a let- down and a lack of international leadership and a global swing to the right hasn’t helped. the recent right-wing coups in venezuela and bolivia have undermined the positive role of the latin american alba group in these international climate talks. these countries were once prominent advisors on indigenous rights, climate justice, and non-market approaches. instead, we are making very little progress, thanks to right-wing and liberal major economies. canada, usa, australia, brazil, saudi arabia have left a lot to be desired. they are preventing us from even reiterating the requirements of the paris agreement in the cop conclusions: that we need to boost our efforts before next year. it’s a sad affair. in the run-up to cop25 we were negotiating and celebrating the idea of a trade deal with the mercosur countries, which is toxic, and the idea that climate diplomacy is going to be an effective tool is a myth, from what we are seeing. i would like to say to mr timmermans that he has a big job at hand and, mr timmermans, you will need to get your pal, phil hogan, on board as well. good luck with that one!
madam president, firstly i want to welcome the commission’s green deal and the announcement last week. i think it’s important that we, as a european union, show leadership in a global context. there is no doubt that there are a lot of climate deniers out there. we look at president trump, we look at brazil, we look at many other countries which simply do not accept that there is a global crisis in our midst at the moment. so from that context, while cop was a failure in terms of actually bringing forward a meaningful policy, it does highlight the fact that there are many countries out there which simply will continue to jeopardise the climate for economic gain alone, without taking a holistic approach. i would urge that we would look at it from an economic point of view and an environmental point of view. we also need to enhance our diplomatic efforts, as a european union, across the globe to encourage countries in the context of the next cop to be serious about bringing forward tangible proposals that will actually have a meaningful impact on how we transition to a carbon neutral world and save the planet.
mr president, i would like to you are a gentleman ... mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that there are certainly positive elements in the pollinators initiative in terms of setting strategic objectives and a set of actions to be taken by the eu and member states. however, the initiative fails to adequately address the main root causes of the decline of pollinators such as land-use changes, intensive agriculture, use of pesticides and climate change. the new cap reform can be a tool to reverse bee population, provided it is done right. time will tell. we also urgently need legislation to ban all harmful pesticides right across the eu. the irish national park and wildlife service report submitted to the un convention on biological diversity this year blamed the pollinator decline on the obsession with ever-increasing levels of agricultural productivity; the loss of hedgerows, farmland edges and scrub; and monocultures, including cash crop forests made up of fast-growing coniferous species of low biodiversity value. we have got to stop this. and, unfortunately, in ireland only recently, hedgerow cutting was extended by the heritage act last year. the eu should put manners on the member states.
madam president, as animal welfare groups beg us not to buy puppies for christmas because it stresses animals in this frantic season, please spare a thought for the daily trauma suffered by animals being transported overseas. the recent incident where over 14 000 sheep drowned is not unique. the practice of live exports is barbaric, inflicting needless suffering on living sentient beings. as an irish woman, i’m ashamed to say our cattle are being shipped as far away as libya and turkey, journeys of up to 12 days, where animals travel flesh on flesh over often treacherous seas, regularly becoming seriously ill, injured and dying. even more shameful, the bulk of our cattle exports are unweaned two—week old calves taken from their mothers’ sides, herded on board vessels into cramped conditions where they suffer deep distress. not only is this unacceptable by any animal welfare standards, it is unacceptable by moral standards.
madam president, the british election was a clear and decisive victory for the conservative party. the uk will now leave the european union, because the withdrawal agreement will be passed, and they will leave on the 31 january. there are also protections in the withdrawal agreement for no hard border on the island of ireland, and i very much welcome that, but we must be vigilant, mr barnier. you must ensure that, whatever proposals and discussions continue after the withdrawal agreement, the border will not exist on the island. the good friday agreement must also be upheld and vindicated. the rights of citizens, parity of esteem and eu citizenship. bearing in mind, many people in northern ireland wish to express their identity as irish citizens and european citizens – in fact, the majority in northern ireland want to express themselves as european citizens. there is political realignment happening in northern ireland as we speak, and there’s no doubt the demographics are changing and there will be a new political dispensation at some stage in the future. so we have to vindicate the good friday agreement and bring forward the proposals and test the demographic changes in the near future to ensure we know what the people of northern ireland are thinking with regard to their citizenship and a united ireland.
mr president, i am saddened by the actions of certain member state governments when it comes to the disgraceful treatment of lgbti citizens and voted in favour of the resolution to show my solidarity with these citizens. has history not taught us the folly of separating one group of citizens from another? equally, the idea that you can just create lgbti—free zones is ludicrous and bemoans the ignorance of humanity. lgbti citizens have every right to live, work and enjoy freedoms the rest of society enjoys. if certain member states want to restrict the rights of their lgbti citizens they need to think long and hard about whether it is compatible with their membership of the european union. one of the proudest moments of my political life occurred in 2015 when the irish people overwhelmingly, in a public vote, voted to extend civil right marriages to our lgbti brothers, sisters, aunties, uncles, cousins, neighbours and friends. it is shameful that within our union, there are still those who resist equality; it must be called out and opposed.
mr president, bees and the health of all pollinators is an issue of key importance to the public. the importance of pollinators for agriculture, food production, biodiversity and the landscape has been well covered in the parliamentary debates here, but the plight and survival of the bee has really captured the imagination and the hearts of the public, and we, as legislators, must respond to this and act accordingly and responsibly. this week in west cork, in my own constituency, a new association has been set up to promote and champion the cause of the bee. the fastnet area beekeepers’ association has been established by mairead and michael love to support beekeepers and will seek to educate those who wish to establish their own hives. community-led initiatives like this are replicated across ireland and europe and it is essential that the future common agricultural policy (cap) has the tools and the measures to support beekeepers. it might be a dream, but wouldn’t it be fantastic if every farm had at least one beehive?
i'm going to vote for you. is it possible to improve health care in ireland, especially in the case of mental health? in irland, they take a lot of money and they look to get counselling, therapy and therapy. all consulting services are provided digitally. i don't ask about health care, i don't always have the money. however, it is in the services without regard to the leathanbhanda and the irish. the real estate in ireland is still in development. without a plan, new health technologies will not be available in ireland like in other eu member states.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking today about an agreement, the agreement between the european union and mercosur, which requires and deserves a thorough debate, a thorough scrutiny by this house, and we will do so over the next few years. an agreement which represents the opportunity for a true bi-regional alliance between latin america and europe. i would remind you that such an agreement would enable 85 per cent of the latin american population to be connected to the largest market in the world, which is the european market. and i say this now that the world is moving and we are looking for allies in the defense of multilateralism and a fair, inclusive globalization: with latin america we have a region to be able to defend all that. it deserves to be discussed and it deserves to be used, this agreement and any other, not to export products but to export rules and standards. and that is precisely what trade agreements are for. now we discuss what's happening in brazil and bolsonaro. i am repulsed by the president of brazil. in fact, i share the views of some european politicians. but i want to remind you that this agreement has been under negotiation for 20 years. there have been other presidents in brazil who have negotiated this agreement. and what can a trade agreement allow us to do? to have tough standards and a stable framework to fight climate change and protect our biodiversity, especially when we're talking about the lungs of the planet. but you don't have to do it alone. we must agree, demand and export, but not products, but standards, and that is what agreements and partnerships of this kind are for.
madam president, i do not think that, in essence, the agreement with mercosur is antinomic to our climate ambitions, to paraphrase one of the previous speakers. what i do believe, however, is that there is much more than a few details to be worked out before the european parliament can give its go-ahead, and my colleague bernd lange is right to stress that we will need that time. only two points in the minute i'm allowed. our farmers must be better protected and, more generally, our agricultural model must be protected. the agreement is already destabilising the beef and sugar sectors, whose prices are already at the bottom. on the climate front, the aim is to raise the tone with jair bolsonaro's brazil. deforestation could turn the amazon, which is currently a carbon sink, into a source of emissions. and the amazon is ten years of global co2 emissions. without it, our wind turbines are a shambles. so what do you do in practice, mr. hogan? what do we say to the people who are trampling on the paris agreement? we saw it in madrid, business as usual, it's no longer possible.
i have to say, madam president, if we want a green deal, we cannot make this deal. we cannot make this deal. the mandate is from the last century, it's all out of date. basically, it's the old deal: beef, soybeans for machinery, cars and now services. so we'd have to at least start renegotiating. then you've got the top of it: wonderful sustainability chapters and environmental chapters. but if it's not sanctioned, it's not worth it. we can see what kind of politician mr bolsonaro is. we are giving these neo-fascists hope with this agreement. he's made no secret of the fact that he'd like to clear the amazon soon. he's making no secret of the fact that he'd love to throw the paris climate agreement out the window, and we're making deals like this with him? the question is whether the european union is still taking its human rights approach seriously. commissioner, you said once that we should have the same standards. we cannot have the same standards if we impose conditions on our farmers - and rightly so - and at the same time import from a country where environmental standards are not good at all, especially in the agricultural sector. 150 pesticides are allowed, which are banned for european farmers. this is not a deal on par with our farmers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate should be: are the tenets of the european union compatible with the environment it claims to defend? and the answer is obviously no. because that is the great paradox, the great inconsistency of the european union. on the one hand, there is the desire to impose ever more stringent, demanding and therefore costly environmental standards on european industry and farmers. on the other hand, we must go further and faster in the logic of free trade, lowering customs duties, deregulation and the abolition of protections. behind this paradox there is a great illusion, both ideological and naive, that other powers will imitate us, will gently align themselves with our standards and norms. of course not, they will use this opportunity to compete unfairly with even greater zeal. by imposing ever more stringent standards, you are undermining the competitiveness of our companies, of our farmers. by refusing to protect them at the same time, well, you kill them. europe is now the best student in ecology, down 16% in two decades of co2 emissions. at the same time, china is 208 percent higher. gretha thunberg is here to make westerners feel guilty. we must move away from the free trade model, we must relocate human activities, protect the environment and defend our economy.
madam president, this mercosur agreement prioritises profit for transnational companies and investors, while lowering social and environmental standards for workers, farmers and citizens. european farmers – especially meat and crop producers – will be forced to compete with imports from huge agribusiness companies in mercosur countries that cut costs by using pesticides, antibiotics and hormones – many of which are banned in the eu. the green deal claims that european farmers are key to managing the transition and that the farm to fork strategy will strengthen farmers’ efforts to tackle climate change and preserve biodiversity, and it talks of ensuring a decent living for farmers and their families. tell me, commissioner, what in god’s name has the mercosur deal got to do with that? what is there to make of the eu’s climate diplomacy, when argentina, brazil and uruguay blocked progress at cop25? you admit that the current illegal and unsustainable forestry activities shouldn’t continue. i had an argument with ricardo salles – brazil’s environment minister – in madrid, and he said that not a single tree in the rainforest has been cut down for soya or beef production. and you’re going to believe what these fellas tell you? come on, give us a break.
madam president, i would like to wish you well, commissioner hogan, on your reappointment as commissioner and wish you well in the trade portfolio and to say at the outset, i mean this is going to be a very big challenge for europe in the context of promoting global greening, ensuring that we protect not only our own climate agenda here but that we foster it across the globe. and at the same time, we are encouraging a trade deal with brazil, uruguay and argentina which will effectively destroy much of the amazonian rainforest that is left – the lungs of the world – upend biodiversity and send out a message across the globe that europe is not as serious as it should be about climate change. so we publish a great agenda last week and we undermine it by the very fact that we’re trying to promote a mercosur trade deal that undermines everything that we stand for in the context of the green agenda. so let’s be very clear – we have to be honest: this particular deal does not stack up on many fronts. it undermines the basic principles that we in europe are promoting in terms of the environment, and secondly and as importantly, it undermines our agricultural industry as well.
madam president, the commission has presented its climate ambition with the green deal, and i congratulate it. but at the same time, how can the commission justify signing an agreement like this, which is after all an old-fashioned agreement, negotiated 20 years ago, business as usual? what is the policy coherence when we know the impact of this agreement, not only on climate and deforestation, but also on indigenous peoples, biodiversity and human rights? stop telling us that this chapter "sustainable development" is a guarantee for sustainable development; it is not true and you know it. be consistent, be sincere! why is this chapter excluded from the settlement mechanisms of the individual states, states which are now included in the whole of the trade agreement? and, as it happens, when it comes to human rights or sustainable development rights, well there is no possibility to use this dispute settlement mechanism. so, to be consistent, i suggest you read the davos boss, the davos boss who is not a leftist and who says: "a company must be accountable for environmental and social responsibility". so, commissioner, and madam president of the council, i urge you to be less ideological in your trade agreements and to respect what companies themselves are doing today in respect of the environment.
madam president, in the current times of geopolitical changes, trade wars and the growing threat to the multilateral world order, i see that the eu—mercosur agreement shows the commitment of both sides to a rules-based international trade. moreover, it will give european businesses an opportunity into a market with vast economic potential. at the same time, we are facing the challenges of climate change and environmental degradation, which require a global response. with every new trade agreement, the european union is stepping up efforts to implement and enforce sustainable development commitments, and the eu-mercosur trade agreement is no exception. with a strong, sustainable development chapter in the trade agreement, we are on the right track with argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay in committing to the implementation of the paris climate agreement.
madam president, welcome commissioner hogan. i’m very glad to see this debate happening here today, initiated by my own green group. too often we fall short of the aim of improving the world through our trade policy, instead compromising ourselves and our ideals in the interest of corporate profits and unsustainably cheap products. it is unclear how the proposed mercosur deal can in any way be compatible with the green deal. how can a deal that ships goods needlessly around the world, imports beef produced on cleared rainforest, that suits the interest of car manufacturers but not the climate, be compatible with the safe, clean future for all? we risk talking out of both sides of our mouth here, talking of a circular economy and sustainable agriculture and then importing climate-destroying agricultural produce. any deal needs to comply with our paris obligation, needs to protect workers’ rights in the eu and in south america and needs to maintain the key elements of the green deal. it also avoids causing chaos to european farming, where irish beef farmers are already facing unacceptably low prices.
madam president, commissioner borrell, i have to tell you something. our debate is addressed to the chinese people, and so is the resolution. i shall therefore now begin with the first sentence, namely: parliament and the council have been, are and will be consistent in defending religious and ethnic minorities, including when it comes to the people's republic of china. our resolution is quite balanced, because on the one hand we appreciate the great achievements of china, such as the lifting of 700 million citizens out of poverty, the building and development of industry, the great investments in infrastructure. but we also stress that it is not enough for people to have basic, international standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the resolution we're debating has facts. these are confirmed facts, and we can expect a positive response from the chinese side. let us not at the same time have negative consequences, and if we have to, it will be very difficult, both in the field of transport and in the field of trade and industry. finally, the people's republic of china should implement the convention on human rights, which it signed in 1998.
madam president, leaked government documents have revealed how china’s mass detention of uyghurs and other minorities started with directives issued by the chinese leader in 2014. beijing has repeatedly refuted criticisms of its crackdown, which has seen more than one million uyghurs, kazakhs and other minorities sent to camps where there are often subjected to political indoctrination. china has even organised tours of the camps, which it describes as voluntary: vocational training centres intended to provide students with job skills. among the leaked documents is a script for local officials to use when speaking to the children of parents being punished. it explains that their loved ones are receiving concentrated education to eradicate them of violent terrorist thoughts. the documents also highlight the extent of brave resistance by thousands of local officials. one han chinese official was jailed for trying to slow down the detentions and protect uyghur officials. i’m proud of labour party colleagues in the uyghur solidarity campaign, who mount a regular monthly protest outside the chinese embassy in london, and i’ll be joining them on 5 january to call for the closure of these concentration camps.
madam president, whether it is in china, saudi arabia, palestine or the incarceration of the black community in america, we should condemn human rights violations everywhere. but whenever you see western governments and so—called liberal politicians wailing about the plight of persecuted muslims somewhere, it’s most likely connected to geopolitical reasons. where were they when millions of muslims were being bombed out of existence in the middle east? where were they when western—armed jihadists were persecuting christians in syria? the defence of human rights around the world as a weapon to undermine particular states is not the way forward. there’s no doubt about it, but the belt and road initiative, which xinjiang is crucial to, has definitely come into america’s focus. the americans have admitted that they are pretty eager to destabilise the area, because they don’t want the belt and road initiative that the chinese have planned for so long to actually materialise.
madam president, we are talking about the china cables – obviously modelled on the explosive wikileaks cablegate in 2010, which was a new model of journalism about blowing the whistle on war crimes and corruption of our governments and letting us know about it – but this is different. here, we have an alleged chinese government source leaking an internal chinese government document to us and eu audiences, in english not in chinese and published by a us-based ngo funded by us foundations. a week before that, we had the iran cables – supposedly from iranian leaks – telling us how bad the iranian government was. let’s remember that it was trump who said he was going to stick it to the chinese and declare war on iran – and here we are, discussing the chinese persecution of its muslim population. i have no doubt that the chinese do persecute their muslim population and i condemn it utterly, but many member states here have a muslim population which is also being persecuted. where’s the condemnation of that, or are human rights just to be used for geopolitical reasons?
madam president, i would like to say first of all that i categorically reject all the statements made by mrs sandra pereira of the portuguese communist party, who is trying to whitewash a totalitarian regime, oppressor of the venezuelan people, such as the maduro regime. it is a shame that we have reached this stage and there are still members of this house who are here defending maduro's policies, which have led to the largest displacement of people ever in the americas and which, at this moment, is already going to the safe house of 4.7 million people and may be in the home of 6 million people. i was in cucuta, colombia. i know the situation of the venezuelan refugees who are in ecuador, in peru, in colombia, who are in brazil, who are in chile. i know that you are in a desperate humanitarian situation and i must say that the european union can do more and must do more and that european states have responsibilities to end the maduro regime and restore democratic legitimacy to venezuela, restoring dignity and prosperity to the people of this country.
mr. chairman, four and a half million people have already left venezuela, and that number is expected to rise by another two million by the end of next year. it is by far the largest number of refugees from any single country in the world today. this tragedy is also accompanied by the proportionally least funded program of aid to the donor community, since less than half of the promised funds have been paid. the european union has disbursed eur 320 million in humanitarian aid since 2016. but it should continue to be provided not only to venezuela, but also to colombia, ecuador and peru. these countries have shown great solidarity with the refugees from venezuela. as many as 85% of refugees are in neighboring countries. i support the approach of the united nations high representative. we must prevent the cost of our political actions from being paid by the citizens. the crisis in venezuela must be ended by negotiations. the best political and democratic solution is free, fair elections with the presence of international observation missions. only in such an election can the citizens of venezuela decide their future.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. mr borrell, the commissioner, is spanish, a representative of a country which has a special knowledge and understanding of latin american affairs. so i think he can help solve this problem. but let us not be fooled: dictatorships do not just fall away. the demand for free elections is absolutely right, legitimate and substantive, but the power in venezuela is a power based on physical violence, and therefore only very strong international pressure, including the european union, including the european parliament which can say more than eu diplomacy can make it so that the venezuelan people will finally be able to decide for themselves i emphasize: for themselves who they want as the leader of this country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if four and a half million people are fleeing their country, if parents can no longer feed their children, if the annual inflation rate in venezuela is around 10 000%, then we are facing a very serious problem. estimates show how next year the number of venezuelan emigrants will surpass the syrian exodus, with six and a half million people displaced in 2020. there are almost 1.5 million venezuelans in colombia, a country that has maintained a generous open door policy and is now paying dearly for the consequences of hosting such a large number of people. the united nations estimates humanitarian needs at $1.35 billion, just to provide basic humanitarian services to migrants and to support host countries. however, the reality is that while many express solidarity, in the end very few contribute. that is why i call on the new commission to make a greater effort to support these desperate people and to ask the united states to review its policy of sanctions, which are paralysing an economy that is already collapsing. ladies and gentlemen, i know that venezuela is much further away than syria and that many think that this serious crisis does not directly affect us, but i think the time has come to show our latin american friends that we are there for them when they need us most.
mr. borrell, over 4.5 million venezuelans have fled the country since the beginning of the crisis brought on by the communist regime of chavez and maduro. unlike other mass migrations in history, however, this one was not caused by a military conflict but by a corrupt, tyrannical government desperately trying to impose a bankrupt ideology of socialism and communism on one of latin america's richest countries. for those of us who have had the misfortune of living on the wrong side of the iron curtain in a social experiment called the socialist system or more precisely the socialist camp - very close to a concentration camp - this situation is painfully familiar. shortages and queues for essential goods, a disastrous economy, repression and persecution of the opposition, closed borders and attempted escape. it has been through great effort and sacrifice that we in europe have been able to overthrow oppression and dictatorship. so now we cannot be indifferent to what is happening, to the human tragedy of the people of venezuela who are trying to restore democracy, the rule of law and basic human rights. mr borrell, let us double and triple our efforts by the european union to restore democracy quickly, to hold fair and democratic elections, to restore good living conditions in venezuela.
madam president, the international solidarity conference on the venezuelan refugee and migrant crisis held in brussels put numbers on the cost that maduro's dictatorship has on venezuelans. more than four and a half million people have already fled poverty and insecurity. by 2020, the figure may exceed six million. 80% of refugees are in neighbouring countries, which are setting an example of welcome. however, the first xenophobic speeches are emerging, adding pressure to a crisis that is being tackled with more commitments than funds. that is why it is urgent to recalculate the funds that must attend to the victims of this drama, to detail and fulfill donation commitments and to attend to this external dimension of the venezuelan crisis. but i would urge the high representative to try out more committed solutions, as he himself said at the brussels conference, focused on helping venezuelans in their own country. and we must end the political blockade proposed by a regime which will undoubtedly fall if the free elections demanded by the citizens in the opposition and supported by our union are allowed to take place.
madam president, more than 4.5 million people have been forced to leave venezuela because of the desperate situation in the country. according to the un refugee agency, this number could rise rapidly to 6.5 million by the end of 2020. this is one of the biggest population movements of our time. the situation does not allow for the imposition of general economic sanctions, because the humanitarian crisis may worsen further. any sanctions must be targeted at those responsible for today's tragedy. the european parliament must favour a political solution leading to free democratic elections, with the presence of international observers, as the first step towards normalisation. the authoritarianism, the torture and the impoverishment of a people, whatever the circumstances in which they are presented in the european parliament, are unthinkable to find supporters among us. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 171 (8)) )
answer to a question with a blue card. the humanitarian crisis in venezuela and other countries makes us condemn such phenomena, whoever is responsible. we do not weigh up or colour the suffering of the people and all these tragedies. i would like to stress that mr maduro's responsibility for the way in which the venezuelan people have been brought into this tragic situation today is obvious.
madam president, two years ago we awarded the sakharov prize to the democratic opposition in venezuela and sent a strong warning for the leaders of this country to change in order to allow real democracy to take place. unfortunately, nothing has improved by now and we are witnessing a human catastrophe. six million venezuelans have fled the country since 2015 and if this trend continues, and according to estimations, 6.5 million venezuelans could have left the country by the end of 2020. the situation in the region cannot be solved without the involvement of the wider international community, therefore i highly support the commission’s external action efforts towards the negotiating of a transition leading to transparent and internationally monitored presidential elections, and the restitution of the public powers. democracy has to be restored and a decent system of checks and balances needs to be in place.
madam president, the venezuelan refugee crisis is set to be the world’s worst refugee crisis in 2020 and the most underfunded in modern history, and yet it hardly merits a headline in the newspapers. venezuela is now second only to syria in terms of how many displaced people are living outside their country of origin, with the united nations refugee agency predicting that approximately 6.5 million venezuelans will be living outside their country by 2020, outpacing the speed of displacement seen in syria. yet funding to aid this crisis affecting millions of venezuelans and at least 17 host nations, has been seriously lagging. as ever, it’s women and children, the elderly and disabled who suffer the greatest deprivation – hungry, sick and often separated from family members. women and children are also at risk of sexual abuse, forced prostitution, physical violence and human trafficking when on the move. fearing discrimination in exile, they are reluctant to report incidents. it’s essential, therefore, that women, young people and minorities be included in sustainable solutions for peace and stability. and we, as europeans, must withstand any calls for a military intervention.
madam president, mr. high representative, i have to ask you to stop this. in fact, it wasn't hard to predict a few years ago when this new adventure began in venezuela, where the government was run on a populist dispensationalism, as long as there were resources, those resources were readily available, instead of organizing society and the economy. now we have these two aspects that we're talking about here. on one side, the wickedness of the government, and on the other side, the misery, the poverty, the misery, the misery of the people. and the dilemma that we face, which is first, whether to consider sanctions, or - and i'm with you, mr. high representative borrell - simply offer a deal. oil for food, oil for medicine, oil for clothing. because we're just gonna help these people. no, we can't change the government by force, but we can help the people.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, five months ago in this very house we had a debate on the tragic situation facing venezuela, and today we are again discussing the same subject, sadly aware that in that time the humanitarian emergency in the country has worsened. the number of refugees, including children, forced to migrate to other countries in the region is constantly increasing and for those who remain in venezuela, living conditions are becoming increasingly difficult with all kinds of deprivation, human rights violations and violence. in this context, which is becoming increasingly intolerable for the venezuelan people, it is the duty of the european union to make its voice heard by intensifying its efforts to take all possible diplomatic action in support of a peaceful solution to the crisis leading to free elections, but at the same time it is necessary to ensure that the country receives the humanitarian aid necessary to alleviate the situation of a people who have suffered for too long.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in venezuela is a tragedy. we have millions of real refugees, perhaps too uncomfortable and unfashionable to be talked about. a small step has been taken in italy, where, thanks to our initiative, venezuelans of italian origin, who have long applied for citizenship and are awaiting a reply, have been granted the right to rejoin their motherland. and so, pending free elections, europe and its member states should do more, for example, think of an easier path of socioeconomic reintegration for the descendants of italians, spaniards, frenchmen or others who decide to return to live in the land of their fathers. instead we see, as usual, the uncontrolled arrival on our shores of economic migrants, mostly from africa and mostly of muslim religion, while we ignore those who, christian, often of european origin, are actually forced to flee their own land and have a bloody anarcho-communist regime that has persecuted political opponents, reducing its own people to hunger.
madam president, high representative, mr borrell, once again, venezuela is the only country in the world that has not yet ratified the convention on the rights of the child. you will not come to a strasbourg plenary session where there is no debate on venezuela. and many interventions combine chilling data with personal emotions, and i don't hide mine. many of my dearest family live in venezuela: descendants of canarians who fled the terrible conditions of our land after the civil war and sought refuge in venezuela. but we are talking about refugees and it must be said that of the four and a half million who have fled venezuela in search of refuge, the majority have arrived in spain. the numbers speak for themselves. the demands for asylum or refuge of venezuelans in spain have increased between 2014 and 2019 by around 400% and, at least, 100% year-on-year. the last week of november alone, four thousand. one hundred and twenty thousand so far this year. and so, since we are talking about solidarity, i think we should also call for solidarity in the management of asylum seekers and refugees among the members of the european union, starting with these venezuelans whom we care about so much and whom we love so much.
madam president, the humanitarian crisis in venezuela is real and it’s worsening, but of course it’s not accidental and it’s not just unfortunate. it was created by decades of efforts by the us to isolate and suffocate this country, to make it impossible for the people of venezuela to determine their own future, and to make the economy bleed and the people starve. so we shouldn’t be surprised that there’s a humanitarian crisis, or that people have been forced to flee. the fact that this parliament threw its weight behind the unelected, self-appointed guaidó brings shame to this house. it’s obvious now that you backed the wrong horse. this person has no authority, and has even being embezzling the very funds that you said are necessary in increasing humanitarian aid. but increasing humanitarian aid is really a bit like offering somebody bread while you stand by and see their bakery being stolen. sanctions are denying people a decent future; they’re denying them medicine and access. you, high commissioner, correctly said that millions of assets belonging to venezuelans are around the world. please help the attorney—general; help the legal minds who are working with venezuela to try to get their money back to enable the citizens to live a decent life in that state.
madam president, mr borrell said that the eu had organised usd 320 million to help the refugees from venezuela and we’re ready to do more. the eu and us banking sector have stolen tens of billions and billions of dollars from venezuela. if you want to do more, you should help them to get their money back. you should help the sanctions to be lifted. why in god’s name is europe supporting the illegal us sanctions? there is no logic to it. they are destroying the country. maduro is probably no great president, no great leader, but i don’t know a whole lot of great leaders at the moment around the world. but you know what? the situation in venezuela today has been caused by us sanctions. there’s a legal firm called dentons europe, one of europe’s most reputable law firms based in paris, and they are challenging the total illegal nature and the breach of international law that has taken place in relation to venezuela, and are trying to retrieve some of that money. please, mr borrell, play an active role in lifting the sanctions and honouring international law.
mr president, mr josep borrell, we are here today to denounce the very serious situation in nicaragua and the deterioration in democracy and human rights that the country has experienced in recent months, if not years. and this is in addition to the growing hostility of the nicaraguan government towards the european union. we have seen how arrests of students, social leaders and human rights activists were happening in nicaragua. and we have to mention the case of amaya coppens; and people who have also been accredited torture in their detention. we therefore call for the release of all those detained in nicaragua. we are asking for a list of sanctions for some people, for people in the nicaraguan government, to put pressure on, to find a way out of the situation in the country; a democratic, peaceful way out, which includes all the parties in the country; that fundamental rights are guaranteed and that it is ensured, as it will be done, surely, that the european union is on the side of the democratic transition in nicaragua.
mr. president, nicaragua must channel its crisis through the march 2019 agreements. the end of repression must give way to a fair and credible election, overseen by an impartial arbiter. we must clarify the repressive activities carried out by the sandinista government which, according to the latest statistics, have already caused 328 deaths. if the blockade continues, i support the imposition of personalised sanctions against those most responsible for the situation, including president ortega and his vice-president rosario murillo. this crisis needs politics and it needs empathy. that is why i ask daniel ortega to compare the photograph of his first oath as president, on 10 january 1985, with any of those who portray him now. today is the image of desolation. it is nothing like the hope that the end of the somoza dictatorship brought to the country. many of his countrymen, including the 80,000 who have already fled, are beginning to think that two surnames so different, two trajectories so opposite, are beginning to look too much alike.
mr president, this really is a kind of groundhog day, isn’t it? every month we come in here, we denounce elected governments in latin america who are battling to raise living standards in the face of vicious interference by the united states, and we recast these victims of the violation of human rights and international law as the perpetuators. i find it horrific because it’s the people in those countries who suffer. this is a country which defeated a violent, right-wing us-backed coup in 2018, a country which is suffering from economic sanctions unilaterally imposed by the us, and the idea that eu sanctions won’t target civilians is, frankly, a pipe dream. we have to join the dots on this about the destabilisation in latin america. when the us handpicked guaidó they talked about nicaragua and cuba being next. when morales was overthrown, the white house released a press statement talking about the illegitimate regimes in venezuela and nicaragua, and last month they described little nicaragua as an extraordinary threat to us security. this is a country under siege. the best thing we can do is call things as they are and allow the nicaraguan people to determine their own fate.
mr president, nicaragua has been in a sociopolitical crisis for over a year and a half. as we said, the protests against the government of daniel ortega, which began in april 2018, left more than 300 dead, 2,000 injured and thousands imprisoned, including amaya coppens, whose only crime was to bring water to hunger strikers. the report published in september 2019 by the united nations high commissioner for human rights, ms bachelet, highlighted serious violations of fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression, assembly, association and demonstration. civic space has been severely restricted, some independent media have been closed, journalists arrested, human rights defenders and indigenous community leaders are imprisoned, stigmatized, and this in a context where the judiciary is sorely lacking in independence. so, as we said, the political dialogue with civil society has indeed led to the release of 400 people. but some are still in prison; we have to keep going. this dialogue is to be resumed. a peaceful and dialogue-based solution to the crisis is still possible, ms bachelet said. however, the restoration of trust must be achieved through the fight against impunity. the personalities responsible for crimes, torture and murder must be held accountable. we therefore call on the authorities to reopen the country to international observers and we welcome, of course, the conclusions of the october council, which allowed targeted sanctions to be introduced. the european union, and in particular its parliament, will continue to monitor the situation and will support you in your efforts.
mr. president, esteemed high representative, president daniel ortega and his wife and vice president, rosario murillo, are leading nicaragua into a dead end. political opponents, journalists, social activists are being subjected to brutal repression. i have here a letter from relatives of the already known aguadoras, who were kidnapped and detained for bringing water to eleven mothers of political opponents who locked themselves in the church of san miguel to demand the freedom of their children. in this letter they say that one of them, neyma elizabeth, is seriously ill, she is 25 years old, she has been denied medical assistance and her fellow prisoners let me quote them: olga valle, olama hurtado, ivana álvarez, amaya coppens and wendy juárez have started a hunger strike last sunday to demand health assistance. neyma's parents don't know where their daughter is, just like a lot of nicaraguan parents don't. but what they do know is that today political prisoners in nicaragua are in inhuman prison conditions, isolated, and suffering violence. that is why this resolution calls for the immediate release of the prisoners and repressive sanctions against the perpetrators, starting with ortega.
mr president, mr borrell, as in the case of venezuela, i take up all the allegations of repression, arbitrary arrests and even extrajudicial executions - which have taken place - in nicaragua. but unlike venezuela, once a long time ago, after the sandinista revolution, the current president ortega was voted out of power and the government, and since then, in every election in nicaragua there has been an electoral mission from the european union, accompanying it. the last report was extremely critical. you have mentioned the possibility that the future can be opened up through elections which are again free, fair, transparent, truly democratic. the european union will have to be on an electoral mission to ensure this, but there is a lot of work to be done before then. the european union must use all its diplomacy to ensure that a credible electoral process can take place in nicaragua as soon as possible, that democracy can be restored and that we can once again see president ortega, if necessary, leave the government and power through genuinely democratic elections.
mr president, selective hearing can be problematic in here at times. in august this year, hundreds of thousands of people gathered in managua to celebrate the sandinista front’s victory over the us-supported somoza’s regime in 1979. they were also celebrating the victory of the sandinista party and the elected government over a us-backed coup last year only. the protests were led by a far right student movement, trained and funded by the national endowment for democracy, a cia front organisation that has a long history of regime-change meddling. we also know now that us-funded ngos inflated figures against the government. some human rights groups became weapons for the us regime-change model. this country, and all south american countries, have suffered so much for a hundred years. us meddling in the place has seen so many people go to the mexican border. it’s a struggle for an existence after their land was robbed from them. the place is covered in bananas run by us companies. there is no fairness in what the us have got away with down there. mr borrell, it’s about time europe actually stood up and allowed the people of nicaragua, venezuela, all these countries, let them decide their own future.
mr president, the united nations has said that at least 7 000 people have been arrested in iran since the mass demonstration erupted last month. we call for the immediate release of those arbitrarily detained. it is truly horrifying to hear about the security forces firing on protesters, and many people have been killed during this unrest. the internet shutdown in iran made it difficult for outside groups to document the death toll and for journalists to paint the full picture of what was happening on the ground in dozens of cities. it is unacceptable that people who protest because of social and economic injustices are killed and injured. we social democrats condemn the actions of the regime and demand that the violence stop immediately. the people of iran need the eu on their side. this is why i’m happy to stand by this resolution, where we demand a stop to the violence and call for the eu to continue raising human rights and concerns with the iranian authorities in bilateral and multilateral exchanges.
mr president, mr high representative, we have no data, amnesty international says 304 people have been killed, the iranian opposition says more than 1 000 people have been killed, 4 000 injured, 12 000 detained. again, the shutdown of internet access, which you referred to. but despite this blockade, we are receiving video images that tell of unspeakable cruelty. shots from the security forces, shooting from helicopters, from the roofs of buildings, at the protesters. families today cannot even bury their children, their relatives and two weeks ago a large number of bodies were discovered in rivers and lakes in that country. parliament again condemns this brutal repression. and we join our voice with that of the un high commissioner and demand an independent investigation, led by the un rapporteur, to identify those responsible, so that they can answer. the necessary political dialogue with iran cannot be based on impunity for the perpetrators and the oblivion of the victims.
mr president, mr high representative, i spent the last term urging mrs mogherini to take a much tougher line against the criminal regime in iran. this situation clearly shows that such a regime cannot be a partner for us, countries that believe in democratic values and the rule of law. a regime that shoots at people, at its citizens who are demonstrating, hundreds of people are dead, deserves nothing but total condemnation and sanctions from our side. i therefore ask you to take a much more radical, tougher approach to this country than your predecessor did, to demand that iran conduct a clear investigation into these crimes against its own people and to address the extent to which, for example, the nuclear deal is not a piece of paper today and how much it still applies. i think it's impossible to have good relations with iran if it behaves like this towards its people who do nothing but protest against corruption, against the rising cost of living and allow themselves to exercise their fundamental right to gather.
mr president, on monday night i spoke in this very place about the number of victims of the brutal regime in iran. but tonight i want to highlight some things that are absolutely necessary to accept. we should be clear and loud in our support for the opposition, the insurgency movement, which is fighting for freedom and democracy in iran. then we should redefine our relationship with iran, and we should not turn a blind eye to that, just like the us, we should also impose new sanctions. of course, we should also take some other concrete measures against the iranian regime, which is not only brutal against its own citizens, but also a threat to the region. it's becoming a destabilizing force, developing new weapons, threatening not only israel but other countries in the region and the european union as well. in short, it wouldn't hurt to organize a fact-finding mission to iran.
mr president, amnesty international has just reported that over 300 people were killed and thousands arrested in a violent crackdown against peaceful protests in iran. the recent wave of protests has seen over 7 000 activists, journalists, students and protesters arrested, all of whom could now be facing torture whilst being detained. we cannot stand idly by while the ayatollah blames this on a foreign plot to oust him. it’s quite clear that the iranian authorities wish to crush all political dissent and opposition. when speaking about iran, i must mention the ongoing cruel imprisonment of dual national, nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, on trumped—up charges and also the situation of uk permanent resident, aras amiri, who has carried out extraordinary service as a promoter of iranian arts and culture but now finds herself behind bars: a bargaining chip in a cynical game of diplomatic chess. finally, i wish to raise awareness of the ongoing harassment of journalists and their families in iran, including those working for the bbc persian service. if we value media freedom, we must defend it everywhere.
mr president, my solidarity, obviously, first and foremost is with the victims of oppression anywhere and everywhere, and the reports of violent and lethal repression of demonstrations in iran is, obviously, something i, naturally, condemn. but the problem is this: even though human rights are universal, all human rights abuses are not condemned equally by this parliament. sometimes the human rights abuses are exaggerated, sometimes they’re not. but do you know what? they’re always the abuses of other states, never our own: states that stand up to the united states and europe, states that have an independent policy, states that are closed to western capital, states in the firing line. it’s obviously natural and right to support the victims of repression, but the skewed emphasis in this parliament to twist it into a one-sided imperialist human rights agenda that only condemns repression in iran, china, russia, whatever – never the united states or europe and their clients. where’s the speaking out against the repression of palestinians brutally repressed by the vicious israeli war criminals? this helps to downplay genuine human rights abuses. we weaken our own authority by this and we should do well to remember that.
mr president, honourable member, ladies and gentlemen, the number of victims of the security forces in response to the demonstrations in iran is estimated at at least 304, including 12 children and 13 women. when those who should be on the front line of public defense shoot to kill in the crowd, it is clear that a line has been crossed. unfortunately, once order had been brutally restored, a new phase of violent repression began, which saw the arrest of thousands of people, it seems at least 7 000: students, journalists, human rights defenders, and so on, and so on. no, there can be no impunity for this. but let me be dispassionate, and i do not think that this is in any way an excuse for these acts, which i strongly condemn. the demonstrations are being triggered by the high price of gasoline, which is itself a consequence of the extremely punitive sanctions imposed by the united states, both on iran and on anyone trading with tehran. it is clear that these have had a devastating effect on the civilian population without producing the desired political effect. this must be a wake-up call, i think. when a tool, whether it is intended or not, strikes at the weakest, in the often vain hope of influencing those in power in this way, perhaps it should be radically reconsidered.
mr president, mr borrell, unfortunately iran is also a constant in the debates in this parliament on human rights. but this time the situation is appalling: the death toll is over 300, and 7,000 people are being arbitrarily, illegally, held incommunicado, tortured, and facing the death penalty. when we talk about this we are not talking about simply the repression of the rights of demonstration and assembly. we're talking about a popular uprising that's been bathed in blood. and so the european union must be used to the full. it is true that we always introduce the clause of preserving the nuclear agreement, but diplomacy can do a lot in its political dialogue, not only with the iranian authorities, but also with the opposition, to ensure that, when the time comes for the repressive leadership in iran to be changed, there really comes a qualitatively different political situation, where there is pluralism, where there is freedom of ideology, religion and belief, and also a non-nuclear iran.
mr president, while the weapons of sanctions have contributed massively to the protests, the response of the iranian state to those protests cannot be justified. the state has used lethal violence – live ammunition – against the protesters, and this is inexcusable and should be condemned. we should also be condemning the use of force by the right-wing governments in bolivia and chile, where people are being killed and thousands are also being imprisoned. we must recognise, too, that this brutal response is warmly welcomed by the us, who use the language of human rights as a further weapon against iran. the head of iran policy for the us is brian hook, and he said: ‘we should consider human rights as an important issue in regard to us relations with china, russia, north korea and iran, because pressing those regimes on human rights is one way to impose costs, apply counter-pressure, and regain the initiative from them strategically’. the us administration has seen the proof of washington’s maximum-pressure policy against iran as working, causing the iranian people to turn on their political system. this is called ‘foreign interference’. mr borrell, do you approve of the foreign interference in iran? do you think that europe should still look to get the jcpoa back on track? because america’s ambition is to undermine the prospect for the same.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, can i welcome the words already spoken here tonight by the representatives from the council and the commission? female genital mutilation (fgm): three words that have come to be understood as culture, tradition, even as a medical procedure. but those three words, those three letters are none of those things. what those three words are: an assault – violence, violence against women. and violence against women which results, as we know, in fundamental life-changing injuries: injuries that damage women and the very essence of what it means to be a woman. as of october 2019, unicef estimates that 200 million women and girls have undergone fgm in 30 countries – and that is just an estimation, let’s be clear, with many cases going unreported. when they think of fgm, most people’s minds go to the african continent, to places like guinea, where 97% of women have undergone fgm, including 45% of girls below 14 years of age; places like ethiopia, where 65% of women have undergone fgm. but the reality is, it’s happening in countries across the world, in places like indonesia, malaysia, and so on. what would we say if this was our mother, our sister, our wife, our cousins? would we be as complacent as we sometimes are? we would be outraged. and we have to be the voice for those women who cannot speak for themselves. we are working to make sure the istanbul convention is implemented. be clear: fgm is violence against women, and we must use every resource available to us to eradicate it. how do we do this? it has to be a serious, top-priority re-engagement on this issue. we have to have political leadership from the political leaders around the world, men and women. we must engage in a global multi-stakeholder approach: ngos, communities and families working together. unicef concluded, from the surveys they have conducted, that the majority of girls and women in most countries with available data think fgm should end. we need champions to make this happen, like ms kanko, who i thank for raising this issue, like ifrah ahmed, an irish champion who is working with the government of somalia to eradicate fgm. violence against women is a crime, fgm is a crime, and we must do everything in our power to stop it.
madam president, it disappoints me that this debate has been scheduled at the end of the day and not given the platform it deserves, with more in attendance – men and women, and with all 28 member states actively participating. it is very clear that female genital mutilation has not benefited the 200 million girls and women who have had this trauma done to them and, to bring it closer to home, it will not benefit the 180 000 women and girls who are at risk of fgm right here in europe. it is done to control girls’ and women’s bodies. it is done to control the lives that they live and the lives they are deserving to live, and it’s done out of false ideology that a girl would, or could, positively benefit from fgm. we – and i say the collective ‘we’ – need to recognise that harmful practices such as fgm cannot be addressed on their own, but instead should be treated through a holistic and comprehensive approach to end all forms of violence and work to an eu strategy preventing fgm from continuing for future generations of our girls and women. prevention measures need to focus on mobilising communities, traditional faith leaders, – women and men – presenting them as agents of change. this recognition is a critical step, but it is simply not enough. we – and again the collective ‘we’ – need to fulfil our commitments and continue to recognise our real responsibility within the global community and end fgm.
mr president, half a million people have been displaced, almost 2 000 schools have been closed and some have been targeted simply because they teach in french. and in the water, a growing persecution of christians in the embarrassed and guilty silence of the west is evidenced by the new attack earlier this month on a protestant church in the east of the country, with a total of fourteen victims. the burkinabé state, a guarantor of stability in west africa and a bulwark against islamist terrorism, is thus gradually collapsing. the sahel is also burning, as a result of a conflict initially limited to northern mali. we would find it hard to be genuinely surprised when we know that only, or almost, 4,500 french soldiers swept the vastness of the sahel, while the un mission in mali was reduced to impotence. i think that all my colleagues who have spoken, mrs loiseau, are in full agreement. yet the debates within the walls of the european parliament will not change anything as long as the union does not take stock of the issues at stake in this region, whose future is crucial, both for christianity and for europe. take note of that on this day, this christmas season.
mr. chairman, please! i am very happy about this debate today, because it is such a good moment to first of all condemn the recent attacks that have taken place in burkina faso, to express solidarity with the government, with the ordinary people. but i also think it's a good time for us all to think about what we can do as the european union to restore stability in this country and to calm the situation in the whole region. these attacks that have taken place in recent weeks, particularly on the christian community, attacks that were carried out by radical islamic groups affiliated with isis, have led to many tragedies. in recent attacks on churches, dozens of people have been killed, including small children, who were shot with machine guns. this is the moment to begin real action to restore stability to this country. the role of the high representative of the european union in foreign affairs is important. we need a strategy, we need to unblock humanitarian aid, we need real action, and that is what i am calling for and asking for.
mr. chairman, please! as recently as december 1, there was an armed attack on a church in burkina faso. fourteen people were killed and many more were injured. in 2019, 40 christians were killed by jihadists in burkina faso alone. in recent years, there's been an increase in aggression. it has forced hundreds of thousands of citizens to leave their homes and flee. hundreds of people lost their lives. basic human rights are being violated, schools are being closed, and freedom of religion is being violated on a regular basis. today we call on the government of burkina faso to take more intensive action to protect religious minorities, including christians, and to counter radicalization in the country. at the same time, we must remember that burkina faso faces many problems. it's one of the ten poorest countries in the world, and it's plagued by internal conflict. i am aware that the government may not be able to meet this challenge on its own. the european union should therefore cooperate with the government of burkina faso and the group of five for the sahel and support them in their efforts to ensure security. i also believe that the european union must continue to provide humanitarian aid to burkina faso.
mr. chairman, i have listened with interest to the whole debate. i agree with the authors of this resolution and it is for the representative of the european commission to say how our new policy, the policy of the european commission towards this unfortunate country, will be shaped. the description of the growing violence in this country, which was previously religiously tolerant, is very well captured in the motion itself and was also described by the speakers in this debate. these facts are very sad and need not be repeated. let's talk about how we can help this country, how we can help the government there, which is unfortunately failing to counter the violent attacks of islamists against the civilian population. the worst part of this is that this violence is on the rise, that there have been dozens of attacks on civilians in the last six months, and that the government of this country is completely failing to address it. so let's talk about how the european commission, the european union in particular, can help the government there to protect the civilian population.
mr president, as a colleague of ours said, we are on the verge of the winter holidays, christmas, and here we are again, in a situation like that of burkina faso, with violence and people being killed. i support the resolution and i believe that, not only because we have been helping this community for seven years, the european union, with funds, i believe it is important that in the eu-africa strategy, the new high representative, together with the un, bring concrete measures to increase safety and security. because nothing is more precious than people's lives and here we have two situations. on the one hand, the dire situation, the poverty there, the deaths of people due to poverty, but also the violence and the cases of bombings and terrorism. i think we have a lot of work to do here together with the un, because yes, there is a strategy of the un, and ours, of the european union, but we have to look at the measures and whether the effects of our measures lead to an improvement in the situation. we are human beings, and i believe that through faith and love we can accomplish much more than words.
mr president, burkina faso and sahel are incredibly challenging areas now, and if we were wondering what the european community can do in a positive way, we’ve got to take a different approach to this region. we are not tackling the causes of the instability, climate change, illicit tax flows through our corrupt financial institutions in the global north, exploitation by our corrupt extractive industries and western support for corrupt administrations. we don’t have clean hands. we’re robbing the place blind. we steal their minerals. these countries are unstable because they’re so poor, and we are helping to keep them poor. we have to stop robbing them. and all our money and expansion into the military in the area has failed – it’s got worse since we put troops in there. we need to help the governments to recover. we need to stop robbing these people and help them to have normal countries.
mr president, i would also like to call on the high representative to take action to support the country of burkina faso, which has de facto collapsed from a relatively functioning state under the influence of several years of jihadist violence. we must of course condemn - and i fully share the condemnation of my colleagues - the incredible violence that is being perpetrated against christians and that is not avoided even by children, and of course even by moderate muslims. we have to support the democratic structures of this country, support its armed forces, which i think is our first priority, and at the same time support this country that has been hit by several years of drought, from which hundreds of thousands of refugees are really leaving. i am happy with the motion for a resolution, i support it, but i would also like to call on the european union, mr high representative, to focus our attention and strategy on the whole of western sahel. it's an area that needs our help, and if it doesn't get it, it's possible that it will turn back toward the jihadists.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy . – mr president, honourable members, all of you are right. in recent months, we have seen a continued and dramatic deterioration of the security situation in burkina faso. i was reading more figures than what has been mentioned. 700 victims in this year, 500 just since the summer; multiple attacks of various kinds against armed forced, security forces, civilian villages, schools, health. it makes almost 700 000 people displaced. this situation puts the level of food crisis very high. these people need assistance and basic social services. more than one million people are in need of emergency food assistance. this summer the country recorded more than 2 000 schools closed. it means more than 300 000 children are out of school. almost 10 000 teachers affected; several of them have been killed during this year. the situation is weakening the central authorities while the next presidential election is already approaching and considering that the authorities have started to be criticised by the opponents for their crisis management. burkina faso as a strong partner for us, and despite the fact that some difficulties appeared recently concerning the crisis assessment, i think we have to be more present and more engaged in this area. in fact, christians represent 25% of the population. it is often seen as an example of peaceful religious coexistence, but it is clear that the terrorist groups want to undermine this inter-faith coexistence as part of a broader strategy of fomenting inter-ethnic and religious conflict and generate a continued displacement of the population. they attack communities that they consider as enemies, but also those muslims that are considered by jihadist groups as too moderate, as shown by the attack on a mosque in october. this situation doesn’t call for a retreat but for urgent and strong action. as signatories of the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights, burkina faso and the international community share the obligation to save life, to protect the dignity of the population and to defend effective freedom of belief. that’s why we are following the situation and acting on the areas where security is under strain. we are indeed strongly committed to reinforce our support to the fight against radicalisation. setting up a humanitarian and human rights law compliance framework require resources. we are funding the g5 sahel force with 10 million and peaceful co-existence between communities with almost the same amount of money, and supporting the civil society in the field of democracy with another 7 million. this is an example, some illustrations of what do we do in this specific purpose. preserving social cohesion and religious coexistence is key for the stabilisation of the country. i would like to reassure you that the eu will continue supporting burkina faso in facing this critical challenge, because the situation in burkina and in general in sahel affects very much the security and peaceful prospects, also for us europeans. thank you for this debate and for bringing the attention of the european parliament to this sad situation. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on afghanistan, in particular the allegations of sexual abuse of boys in logar province (2019/2981 (rsp)) *.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm glad that we are standing up against the political divide on this important issue, a painful issue, because sexual abuse of young people is always something that is a terrible thing. and i believe that the european parliament's voice must be heard very strongly in the context of the very numerous cases in afghanistan in logar province. i would like us to put pressure on the authorities of this country, which receives a huge amount of humanitarian and economic aid from us, to do everything possible to prevent this kind of situation from happening in the future, to limit the possibilities of sexual exploitation of young people, because it marks them for life. we should be united on this. i am glad that this is the common position of the representatives of the various political groups, and i am glad that commissioner borrell will also be able to take a stand on this matter as the commissioner with the greatest experience in the european commission and former president of the european parliament.
author. – mr president, this is the brutal picture that shocked us all. local afghani elites buy or kidnap boys from poor families. they dress them up as women, make them dance and then abuse them sexually. this is ‘bacha bazi’, but we should not mince words: this is sex slavery and it is absolutely reprehensible. last month’s report showed just how bad the situation is. in logar, at least 136 boys, and probably thousands more, were systematically abused, by their teachers and local authorities – by the people to whom they look up the most – and it did not end there. several boys were killed, of which five by their families because of the shame they supposedly brought to their communities. the afghan authorities must therefore immediately suspend all alleged perpetrators of ‘bacha bazi’. they need to conduct an independent investigation into all allegations and hold perpetrators to account. this abhorrent practice must be rooted out once and for all.
the author. mr president, we subscribe to and fully support this resolution. the sexual abuse of minors is one of the most appalling realities and, in the case of afghanistan, a war that should have been avoided and was not brought about by overwhelming consequences not only for the country but also for the region. the case of the 136 youngsters is, unfortunately, just one example, as between 2015 and 2018, more than 14,000 children were abused in afghanistan. this picture is, however, wider and we therefore wanted to call on members to support the amendments we have tabled to the resolution. as i said, we fully support this resolution, but in the larger picture we cannot ignore that the report of the us special inspector general stated and demonstrated that foreign troops on us soil had been explicitly advised not to intervene in these cases of rape and abuse of minors. we also know today that american troops were aware of the abuses of the afghan security forces. we also know today, through human rights watch, that there have been violations by paramilitary groups supported by the united states. now that everyone knows and we know this, we would like to include in this resolution the need for an independent investigation so that impunity does not remain. we would also like to include in this resolution a call on member states to stop deporting afghan minors who, when returned, face the risk of torture and human rights violations, as this resolution demonstrates.
author. – mr president, crimes against children are the worst possible form of crime. it destroys and takes away childhood from afghan kids. moreover, it affects their life and their future. and their future is the future of afghanistan, which we work hard to create. over the past days, we observed president ghani’s commitment to investigate dreadful events in the schools of logar province. we express our appreciation to this reaction and look forward to the concrete results. all perpetrators must be brought to justice and schools return to being a safe place for kids. one of the main tasks of our common efforts in reconstructing afghanistan is about a secure future for the country’s young generation. we will continue our support for eradicating the practice of bacha bazi and promoting and protecting the rights of children in afghanistan.
author. – mr president, a couple of weeks ago we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, and with this debate we can conclude that there is still a lot of work to be done to protect children around the world. i would like to express my grave concerns regarding the allegation of sexual abuse in several schools in logar province. the protection of the lives and welfare of children should be central to every society, especially during times of armed conflict. in addition, i also strongly regret the arbitrary detention of the human rights defenders who reported the alleged exploitation and violation. the afghan authorities should ensure in all circumstances that human rights defenders are able to carry out their human rights work. following up on these cases, i call upon the attorney general’s office to launch an independent and impartial investigation into the allegation of abuse, as well as the arbitrary detention of the human rights defenders. the eu delegation and eu member states with diplomatic missions in kabul should continue following developments in these cases and fully implement the eu guidelines for the promotion and protection of the rights of children in armed conflicts. furthermore, it is paramount for the european union to increase the scrutiny and monitoring of eu financial assistance to afghanistan. this way, we can ensure that the budget provided will support the conducive environment for the protection of children and human rights defenders.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i very much welcome the resolution from the point of view of reopening the debate on the appalling practices of bacha bazi, the systemic child abuse and slavery which has long been well known in parts of afghanistan. and isn’t the saddest thing about this discussion the fact that it isn’t a revelation, it isn’t new? we’ve all known about this for a very long time. in fact, we know that even attempts to have the situation exposed and dealt with have been interfered with. american soldiers even, who tried to stop the process, were themselves disciplined for that, while such behaviour was engaged upon in military compounds where the us was present. so for me, this exposes the nonsense that we’re constantly exposed to: that the us intervention in afghanistan was all about bringing human rights, women’s rights, education, when the knowledge of this practice took place under their eyes and they did nothing. this makes them complicit in that practice. and of course the cases should be investigated. of course the victims must be supported and protected. but, you know, i do think we need to draw the conclusions from that. it’s a sad irony, i find, that we are condemning – appropriately so – the physical rape and enslavement of children when the country itself has been raped and pillaged by foreign intervention and its population enslaved. afghanistan was recently ranked as the most violent country in the world, yet we send hundreds of young people back there every year. parliament deems it too unsafe for us to visit, but we’re quite happy to send children back there every year. shame on us. but more than that, we should be supporting their right to live in dignity and respect in their own country, free from interference. so i support the initiatives to bring peace to that country. but we should start by supporting the human rights defenders and civil rights defenders who are active in that state, and not the official echelons of power.
mr. chairman, the situation in logar is truly insane. we can describe the tragedy of the young people in logar, express solidarity, but unfortunately we will not be able to solve this. but it is up to us, and it is a question for the high representative, what pressure, even economic pressure, can we put on the afghan government to at least try to deal with this problem seriously. so far, there are some promises from the constitutional officials of afghanistan, but it's not enough. we cannot accept this, we need our foreign policy towards afghanistan to be clear on this issue, to ask afghanistan to enforce the criminal law that already governs the issue of violence against children in afghanistan, and alongside this criminal law line, to launch a national awareness campaign in afghanistan to draw attention to this crazy phenomenon and warn against it. these are ways that we can at least indirectly help to reduce the number of victims of this insane violence in the future. but without our pressure and the pressure of the global public, i'm afraid the situation in afghanistan will not improve.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent report of the un secretariat shows that over 12,000 children have been killed or maimed, that rape and child abuse in afghanistan exists, and unfortunately, the measures that have been taken, even by changing the criminal code, by a new law in 2019 on the protection of children's rights, have not succeeded, have not succeeded in protecting children. i think it is important that we vote on this resolution, but i would ask my colleagues to vote on amendment no 1 in particular, which accuses the foreign troops in afghanistan, under us control, under us leadership, who did not intervene in cases of child abuse and i want to draw attention to the fact that child abuse is also happening in the member states. we have children being abused; recently, in my country, a dutch citizen abused two little girls. sure, he killed himself after he was discovered, but we have to be careful about our children, the future, the generations that will be in the world and in europe.
madam president, the notion of children being sexually abused has to be one of the most horrific things that we can imagine. we come from ireland, where the sexual abuse of a lot of young people by some members of the catholic church has left an incredible trail of destruction. the fact is that, back in ireland, it was known. people knew it was happening, but people were pressured into silence. it’s not credible in afghanistan that the powers that be, the government of the day, didn’t know. the eu does want to help to restructure afghanistan after the destruction by the americans and others, and the russians before them. but, if we are going to play a positive role, we have got to be very straight with the authorities there and let them know that the likes of this cannot be acceptable because, if we too stay silent, things will be slower to change. you have a positive role to play in afghanistan and you should use your influence and potential to actually drive this home and shout loud that this is too much and too bad.
madam president, mr borrell, the resolution voted by the european parliament today on the russian 'foreign agents' law has two priorities. the first is freedom of expression and access to free information: daphne caruana, sakharov prize. but the second, russia and its meddling in cyberspace, in russia and also in europe. russia, our border, our giant neighbor. the european union prides itself on being a place of peace. the council of europe is also being pressured until russia joins, after which there have been military actions by russia against ukraine, by russia against georgia and between armenia and azerbaijan over the borders inherited from the defunct soviet union. we have reason to be concerned about russia's interference in cyberspace and therefore this resolution does the right thing by sending a strong message demanding respect for bloggers, journalists and all those who serve a free process of public opinion formation in a country where everything is controlled by the putin regime.
madam president, in 2017, when the panic about russian interference was at its height, the us government forced russia today and sputnik to register as foreign agents under the foreign agents registration act. the most predictable outcome of this is, obviously, that russia would reciprocate. this is one of the most basic principles of international relations. every action has an equal and opposite reaction, and here we have russia doing exactly that. and sadly, it is likely to be enforced arbitrarily. it’s a tragedy for independent journalists and citizen reporters in russia. we only need to look at what the us have done with its ‘foreign agent’ law to see where this could lead to: russian maria butina, prosecuted as a scapegoat, imprisoned as a russian spy just for being russian. this isn’t about russian values being different than ours; in actual fact the russians are copying what they’ve seen others in the west doing. and the sooner we stop this russian scaremongering, seeing russian agents everywhere, the better our societies will be. we need to engage in dialogue to move forward.
mr president, i’m going to carry suit from my ecr colleague and say it is disappointing that – at the time this is being held – we don’t have more meps sitting in the hemicycle. commissioner hogan, directly to you: i applaud you and your teams’ work to date, even though it’s just been a few short weeks since you’ve taken up your role as commissioner. as a representative of ireland, in particular as a representative of midlands-north west, i urge you to continue on your message of eu solidarity, particularly under the guidance of tax – and you’re looking at digitalisation or product or what not – when in conversation with the united states of america at this turbulent time. and with that i say any support, from an irish front, we can give, we are here to do so.
