the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, two hours ago we unfortunately learned that paweł adamowicz, the mayor of gdańsk, did not survive yesterday's attack. those who knew him remember his dedication to serving the public and his great openness and ability to listen. i would like to express, on behalf of the european parliament, our condolences and our closeness to the families and the whole city of gdansk. the council has already taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. unfortunately, we are once again mourning the victims of hatred, extremism and radicalisation in europe. the european union was created primarily to guarantee peace and to combat all forms of violence, yet just a few months before the elections in may, we are witnessing growing tension in several member states. in recent weeks, attacks on political representatives have occurred in the united kingdom, germany and hungary. there have been disturbing incidents of anti-semitism in football stadiums too, but it is not enough to condemn these incidents firmly, everyone must take responsibility. the debate between ideas and opinions, which is the heart of democracy, must take place with respect for the opponent, who must never be turned into an enemy. we have too often experienced how verbal violence can lead to physical violence. we must have a different language, eliminating any incitement to hatred, which is not compatible with the model of peaceful coexistence of our union. my appeal is for everyone to tone it down, including on social media. the bombing in strasbourg shows that we cannot let our guard down. the european parliament will continue to fight tirelessly against terrorism of all kinds and we will not forget any of the victims. this week, as many of you have requested, i will be discussing with the mayor of strasbourg how we can pay tribute to the victims of december. i shall propose to the bureau this evening that our radio studio be named after the two journalists killed in the bombing, antonio megalizzi and barto pedro orent-niedzielski. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said before, today is a day of mourning and sadness for many reasons. exactly one month ago antonio megalizzi died, the victim, together with his friend and colleague barto pedro orent-niedzielski, of a bloody and unacceptable fanaticism. their commitment and enthusiasm cannot and must not be forgotten, and many colleagues and many delegations have expressed their wish to commemorate them in the course of these days. for this reason, in addition to the initiative and your earlier proposal to name the radio room after them, which we share and support, mr krasnodębski and i intend to propose the establishment of a scholarship for young european journalists dedicated to them, funded by parliament itself and named after both victims, because these victims, journalism and their passion for european politics had devoted their lives to the europhonica project. we would like to see the values and passion of these young people, my peers, continue to be followed by other young journalists in europe. we are confident of the broad support of all members and groups in our parliament and with this small gesture we want to reiterate that reason and the rule of law in europe are not and will never be defeated by violence and extremism.
i would like to ask you to be very brief, because we do not have to debate this. we have condemned the events and i think that the positions are very clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join the president and all of you in expressing our condolences to the mayor of gdansk and rightly remember those who died a few weeks ago right here in strasbourg. but today i would like to tell you all, because many of you may not know it, that cesare battisti, a terrorist who for too many years enjoyed the protection of many governments, not just european ones, has finally been handed over to italian justice. i hope that the terrorists, all the terrorists, will be brought to justice and that the french government will hand over to italy those terrorists who, unfortunately, still enjoy the protection of that government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recalling the emotion of that night we spent in the last session, right here in this house with you giving us news, all of us so bewildered and shocked, while in the city antonio, the young colleague and other victims were being brutally attacked, i will be very brief. i would like to remind you that the proposal was made, and you were immediately involved in it, after this event, after the death of antonio, especially by our group, in particular by silvia costa in her capacity as a leading member of the committee on culture and education, who had known and collaborated, as many of us did, with this young man and his network of university radio stations. that proposal, which is being taken up again today, was put forward and is very good. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful and has been very helpful to me, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful to me, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
the draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 at its meeting on thursday 10 january 2019, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: monday: the greens/efa group requested that a joint debate on the two reports by ms marietje schaake on the eu-morocco agreement be added as the fourth item on the agenda before the brief presentations. the debate will be conducted with a round of speeches by the political groups. i give the floor to mrs hautala to present the request for the green group's rules.
ms. hautala, do you want to maintain the position you have expressed or are you open to change?
let's move on to tuesday. tuesday: i have received a request from the s&d group to withdraw from the agenda the statement by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 13 and 14 december. the sitting would therefore start at 9 a.m. (parliament approved the request for an amendment) wednesday and thursday: no request for amendment ((the agenda as amended is approved))
the european parliament has sought to highlight the main problems and to respond to the main criticisms of the european system for the approval of plant protection products through the work of the pest committee. the report, which has already been voted by a large majority in committee, was intended to give a clear answer to the millions of citizens who have raised the issue of the lack of transparency in the system in recent years, through the stop glyphosate initiative. to ensure confidence in the whole system and to ensure that the protection of human health and the environment are the main objectives of european union legislation, the essential points we have fought for are, first and foremost, transparency, independence and the absence of conflicts of interest in efsa's scientific panels. we have provided that each member will have to submit a declaration of interests. secondly, the allocation of sufficient financial resources to the competent authorities for risk assessment and, finally, appropriate expertise for the approval process. the final report covers a number of other aspects which have already been listed in previous interventions and which will need to be taken into account by the european commission in its review of the regulation, such as the request for the creation of a post-market surveillance mechanism, which can monitor the real-life effects of the use of plant protection products. the s&d group will pay particular attention to the risk assessment for the most vulnerable groups and i am referring in particular to the use of pesticides in the vicinity of schools, hospitals or public parks. it is also essential to invest in innovation to develop alternatives to plant protection products. in this context, as parliament has already called for, specific regulation will also be necessary for low-risk pesticides of biological origin. i hope that the plenary session on wednesday will be able to vote by a large majority on the final report, which is the fruit of the constructive work throughout the committee by the two rapporteurs, mr lins and mr staes, whom i thank, and that our contribution will be duly taken into account by the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this global battle, which i believe is global, against pesticides and plant protection products and against chemical-based agriculture is finally yielding its first results, also at the level of the european institutions. this is important, after the important results it has already achieved on the part of the citizens, by the citizens, in terms of increased awareness of the health risks posed by these substances. the report we voted on in the pest committee is a good one, but we believe that it should be improved and that it does not yet correspond to the need and the demand for transparency and health that comes from the citizens themselves. that is why we have tabled amendments calling for an immediate halt to the preventive use of pesticides, for example. this type of practice cannot be considered as something that goes in the direction of eliminating chemicals and if we want a chemical-free agriculture this goes in the completely opposite direction. amendments to remove those substances which have a known endocrine-disrupting action. incredibly, in the european union, these substances were first approved by the union itself and then authorized by the states. amendments to remove those substances which have certainly been classified as neurotoxic and for which, unfortunately, the european union has renewed authorization, as in the case of the notorious chlorpyrifos, which is used, as you know, on our bananas. the next step, as has been said before, is to ban imports. it is pointless to have all these battles here in europe over our legislation when we are allowing the importation of glyphosate-treated substances from abroad, for example, without any problems. the only way forward for the plant protection industry, from our point of view, must be to continue to use its products unmolested only if they are unknown to the public, and that is why our first objective here is transparency, to make the public informed and aware, and for that i thank all those members who have courageously and obstinately fought this battle to this point in the interests of the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european precautionary principle is essential to ensuring food safety. in recent years, however, the credibility of our authorisation system for plant protection products has been seriously undermined by the opacity of the procedure for renewing the authorisation of glyphosate, which is all the more serious as doubts about the safety of glyphosate have grown and are also confirmed by court rulings recognising the aetiological link between the occupational use of glyphosate and the development of cancer. concerns about transparency and conflicts of interest highlight the need for improvement of the regulation authorising its application. the pest special committee report highlights the need to put citizens' health, the environment and food safety back at the centre of attention, ensuring that efsa has adequate financial resources, independence from lobbies, no conflicts of interest and adequate expertise in the approval processes. but we must correct the mistakes of the past by shifting agriculture towards sustainable practices.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we realise that the use of driverless hire vehicles for the transport of goods by road can indeed be a solution that guarantees flexibility for the activity of transport companies. the main benefit would be the use of more modern vehicle fleets with fewer safety problems. however, excessive use of this mode of transport can lead to problems in terms of protection of competition between undertakings located in different countries and also with regard to the social rights of drivers. we therefore believe that it is important to maintain certain prerogatives of the member states in limiting the widespread practice of renting without a driver; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am in favour of taking a further step in removing obstacles to the smooth functioning of the single market and creating a uniform regulatory framework for this sector, but for this very reason, relaxing restrictions on vehicle rental and freight transport must go hand in hand with strengthening regulations 1071 and 1072 of 2009, in order to eliminate fraudulent shell companies. illegal cabotage remains a serious problem in the sector which must be tackled, and unfortunately with this regulation there is a risk that it will be even more difficult to detect it if safeguards are not maintained, such as the four-month time limit and the 25% total fleet limit. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, european legislation on the use of hired vehicles without drivers for the carriage of goods by road has been in force for 25 years. it is therefore legislation which must be adapted to the current needs of operators and the sector. i support the general objective of the proposal, which is to provide an opportunity to promote a level playing field and fair competition between rental companies in the european union. member states should not restrict the use on their territory of a vehicle hired by an undertaking duly established in another member state, provided that the vehicle complies with the applicable operating rules and safety requirements. but to ensure the proper implementation of the proposal it is essential that it is given proper implementation. to that end, existing national electronic registers should include the vehicle registration number and the period of validity of the certified true copy of the community licence, specifying the period from which a member state may allow its hauliers to operate hired vehicles on its territory.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur of the gue/ngl group, i too thank very much the rapporteur, angelika mlinar, for the work she has done, and i thank the other shadow rapporteurs, officials and assistants who have helped to draw up a timely report on the progress of this legislature but on the long way to go to achieve genuine gender equality and the integration of the gender perspective in all the policies of the union and the member states. i believe that the european parliament should express its gratitude above all to the feminist movements which, in history and in the present, are fighting for justice and politics for all and for all, for all human beings, for all those gender identities which are still subject to discrimination and violence. they are the inspiration and the foundation of all institutional achievements, on human rights, on labour rights, on combating discrimination. i think it is very important to stress one point which i have strongly wanted to make in this report and for which i am very pleased: there can be no conscious use of gender mainstreaming at institutional level without the spaces that produce women's empowerment and self-determination. i'm talking about those feminist spaces, like the international house of women in rome, like the casa lucha y siesta in rome, that produce feminist thought and politics. the european parliament's femm committee recently visited these places, which are under a very strong attack by local and national institutions, an attack aimed at erasing their history and denying their value in the name of accounting and the logic of debt. i would like to make it clear once again that women are not in debt, women are in debt, in rome as in all of europe, and they are above all the inspiration and the nourishment of feminist politics at european level, they are certainly a source of inspiration and a constant reference for me in my presence in the european parliament.
i'm asking for a blue card. mr troszczynski, thank you for accepting the question, i put three in thirty seconds. firstly, if you have heard, as i have heard, the question in this house whether women are fit to drive cars and whether this does not fall, in fact, into the category of gender stereotypes. secondly, we have a huge gender pay gap, again, at the level of the european union and the member states. how do we deal with this, not to mention gender stereotypes? question three, you were talking about a recruiter before. i don't want to be a part of a male recruiter, i want to change the recruiter and make the recruiters men and women, and that's what you do, i hope, by changing gender stereotypes and overcoming them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mr marian-jean marinescu, because i found his draft report to be broadly agreeable and, after the vote in the itre committee, it also includes many of the amendments i have tabled. i believe that adequate funding should be provided for iter, which is now globally recognised as the most credible experiment to demonstrate the feasibility of nuclear fusion. europe must therefore continue to play a leading role in the project, which i believe has great symbolic value as well as scientific value. in fact, at cadarache, the world's major powers, countries which together represent more than half the world's population, are effectively collaborating in the success of this great experiment and sharing the experimental results. i would also add that it is necessary, and this is clearly stated in the text we voted for and which we shall be voting for, for the organization to continue on the road of improving and rationalizing management, avoiding, if possible, that the roadmaps are not respected and that there are further delays and revisions of the expenditure upwards.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for the fruitful discussions today and in particular the rapporteur, mr marinescu, for his report and its call to the council to approve the commission’s proposal to continue funding iter over the course of the next financing period. as always, parliament’s views and inputs are crucial to ensure effective european support for this important project. the energy transition and the fight against climate change constitute some of the greatest challenges we face today. in this context, it is essential to develop a low—carbon, environmentally friendly energy source that can work as a complement to renewables and fusion; as an energy source it holds a lot of promise. iter, a device of unprecedented scale and sophistication at global level, hosted on european soil, is getting the best world expertise. the project aims for key scientific breakthroughs in the development of fusion as a low-carbon and virtually inexhaustible energy source that should support the eu’s objectives to fight climate change. it is already bringing many concrete benefits for the european economy and society at large, not least through enabling the european industry and research community to enter new markets and develop international cooperation. it is also extremely promising in fulfilling the other dimensions of our energy union to make energy secure for our citizens while supporting growth and job creation. we want to ensure that europe continues leading the way on fusion energy. this is why it is so valuable to have the support of parliament for the project. thanks to this leadership in the construction of iter, europe will be in a privileged position to reap the benefits of constructing and cooperating the first generation of fusion power plants. the proposed report comes at an important time for the project. in recent years iter has undergone significant management improvements, which have produced tangible results. the construction of the project needed for the start of experiments is now around 60% complete and the assembly stage of the project will soon start, paving the way for the first experiments in 2022. and to respond to ms rivasi’s contribution: it is true that the fusion will not be commercially available before the second half of the century and therefore does not enter into the portfolio of low-carbon technologies for our climate mitigation strategies up to 2050. however, climate change and decarbonisation of energy production are long-term challenges that will require viable and sustainable solutions, also post-2050. from that perspective fusion does offer attractive prospects for sustainable low-carbon energy strategies for the second half of the century, when fusion could come to represent a suitable complement to renewable energy sources. the expected advantages of fusion in terms of low-cost fuel abundance and low environmental impact make its development worth pursuing from such a long-term perspective. all the international stakeholders in iter are working hard to ensure that the project continues to make steady progress in accordance with the revised schedule that was set in 2016 and endorsed by the council last year. with the continuous support of the european union for the project in the next multiannual financial framework, the project should therefore reach crucial stages, contributing to building the energy, security and low carbon economy of tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr hayes and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work on the report under discussion. in general, as article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights reminds us, citizens have the right to good and efficient administration and, although the european union does not have direct legislative powers with regard to the administrative organisation of the member states, i believe it is important to ensure the best possible coordination of the resources that the union budget provides to support the modernisation and administrative governance of the member states. this is to enable the provision of services and to ensure the proper implementation of european policies of solidarity, cohesion and development. in my view, the promotion of e-government in relations between the administration and the citizen is particularly important. the application of information and telecommunications technologies can now contribute not only to reducing waste but also to making it easier, more immediate and more transparent for citizens and businesses to access the services and financing opportunities offered by the european funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the processes of globalisation have given impetus to technological innovation in two key areas: communications and transport. compared to the recent past in the european union, it is easier to move, both within and between individual member states. however, there are still significant pockets of backwardness, the most visible of which concerns calabria. getting in and out is inconvenient and more expensive, both because of the weak infrastructure and the shortage of carriers. calabria is isolated even from rome, after ryanair cancelled its low-cost flights from lamezia, alitalia is the master of this route, with excessive costs: a one-way economy ticket costs about 160 euros. the train is also impractical: italo stops in salerno and trenitalia has too high costs. getting to the capital from lamezia by high-speed train costs more than 80 euros in second class and this leads to a serious disparity in treatment compared to the rest of the national territory, as, for example, getting from rome to milan costs about 44 euros. is it possible that calabria is cut off from the opportunities of progress?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of work, the reform of the common european asylum system is in tatters, in tatters because of national selfishness which makes it impossible to reach a common position on the fair sharing of responsibilities and solidarity in asylum and immigration policies between the member states, as enshrined in article 80 of the treaty. according to a recent eprs study, the shortcomings of the ceas have an impact not only on fundamental rights but also in terms of economic costs, which are estimated at around eur 49 billion annually. this includes, among other things, the costs of inefficiencies in dublin transfers, asylum procedures and even returns. the lack of legal access still leads to the use of human traffickers by those forced to flee wars and persecution. in the face of this dismal picture, it is time for the member states to turn their words into deeds, showing their commitment not only to the treaties, and therefore to solidarity and cooperation, but also to ending the neocolonialist policies which continue to impoverish and destabilise whole areas of the african continent, exploiting human and material resources. at this point we can only agree with what italian prime minister conte said yesterday when he defined the issue of migrants as a qualifying factor for the european project. if we continue to hesitate and make individual countries deal with the phenomenon in a non-structural, emergency way, we risk bringing down the whole european edifice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we always say that our union is based on the rule of law. it's not true. we are not a union on immigration and we are breaking european and international law. the only regulations on which the council insists are those on security, border guards and returns, which outsource asylum obligations. the solidarity-based files are all buried. it is a year and a half later and the council has still not made any counterproposals to us on dublin 4. the other files, qualifications, resettlement, they've been sitting around for a year. the result is this: the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the problems of the middle east, by the conflicts between member states, by the criminalisation of search and rescue, by the ad hoc agreements between eu countries to circumvent even the dublin rules, by the handing over of migrants to libyan camps, mr president, these are death camps. the council is guilty of omission and the court should deal with it. commissioner avramopoulos is right, now is the time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would rather speak of 'strong europe' than 'strong italy', with a brave captain at the top, minister salvini, who has succeeded in applying the populist recipe of stopping landings, of stopping the activity of human traffickers, which is the shame that this europe has allowed. commissioner avramopoulos forgot to remind us of the list of 670 migrants to be relocated, which this europe had promised to relocate. he has left rome without giving the italian government the guarantees it was asking for, and there are many representatives of european governments on these benches, all in solidarity with commissioner avramopoulos. let us now turn to concrete solidarity. go to commissioner avramopoulos, on behalf of your country, and tell him how many of these migrants to be relocated are in italy and that this european union has committed itself to relocating them, and who have not been relocated, otherwise you are just hypocrites. italy is fed up with having to suffer the negative results of the wrong policies. we must block landings to block traffic, block landings and then review the rules of... (inaudible) ... which is an institution to which the italian government acknowledges that it is subject, because it is an institution of high political civilization. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would have expected the council to start by apologizing to the 49 people and crews of sea watch and sea eye, who have been held hostage by an arms race between states for 20 days. instead, he didn't name them and he did the usual little report on how much the flows have decreased, but if that's all you're after, what's the next step? shoot directly at the boats? it is shameful that neither the maltese nor the italian governments, nor anyone else, have granted safe harbour for 20 days, in violation of international law. and who's to say it won't happen again tomorrow? instead of moving forward, it seems to be going backwards. in 2015, governments committed to 160,000 relocations, in two years they have done just over 30,000, and today it took 20 days to decide on 49 people. we need a structural solution and there would already be: the dublin reform, which was voted by a two-thirds majority in this parliament, is a reform which shares responsibilities fairly, obliges each member state to do its part in welcoming and enhances the significant links between applicants and the various countries. governments, do your job and approve this reform, otherwise you will be explaining to the european citizens why your inertia and your selfishness risk putting it in the drawer. and i ask hypocrites like mr borghezio to make a face today when they complain about the lack of relocations, given that you voted against it in this house and abstained on the dublin reform. (protests outside the microphone by mario borghezio)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this house has been debating its reform of the dublin regulation for over a year now, an innovative, courageous reform centred on the principle of solidarity. without this reform, it is illusory to think of managing the migration phenomenon. without a clear definition of responsibility and without any guarantee to protect the rights of refugees and migrants, the shameful events of the aquarius, the diciotti ship and sea watch will become the norm. i thank all the ngos involved in the search and rescue effort. we must reclaim our humanity and first of all save human lives. we need to rescue them and get them to the first safe port. we must also have and demand a right to dock and disembark immediately. i also ask for a dignified reception, a right to welcome and a shared responsibility. i call on the various governments to abandon all demagogy and to act and deliberate in accordance with the treaties, but also in accordance with the two global compacts recently adopted by the united nations.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to express my thanks for this very timely debate. i wish we didn’t need it, but unfortunately we do. as i said, and as many of you underlined during this debate, this is europe’s last chance. we shall not spare any efforts. the commission, and i personally, remain fully committed to continue working with you and the council to achieve this very important goal: the reform of the european asylum system. i would like to thank you for this clear and loud support. we will continue to work together intensively to achieve the completion of our comprehensive work. to respond to ms in ‘t veld, all our proposals are indispensable pieces of a comprehensive policy. i have taken note of your remarks. i know how sensitive you are, and i respect that, but from our side that’s how we see the whole package and the policy we have to adopt. one should never forget that, in the area of migration, all our actions are interconnected and all the pieces have to fit together. completing the european union’s asylum reform is indispensable in order to curb irregular migration, to prevent secondary movements, to reduce abuse and to ensure that asylum applications are processed quickly and fairly across europe. we all agree that cooperation with third countries is key, not only to prevent irregular departures to europe, but also to eliminate once and for all the cruel businesses run by traffickers and smugglers. partnership and enhanced cooperation with african partner countries is at the heart of our work. the eu emergency trust fund for africa has contributed to delivering concrete results. it is also essential to ensure that all coastal states in the mediterranean are able and ready to comply with their obligations under international law regarding search and rescue.a crucial element, therefore, is also our work on return, both with countries of origin and within the european union. last but not least, we need to continue our actions to strengthen and better manage our common external borders. our proposal for a standing corps of 10 000 european border guards is on the table. this is what our member states have asked for, and we have delivered. that is why we also need to advance those proposals on which we are ready or almost ready. we have to be ready for the future – an unpredictable future. this is in everyone’s interest. we simply can no longer afford these types of unorganised ad hoc solutions. now is the time to put words into action. in this electoral new year, i want to reiterate the message that europe will be judged on what it delivers for our citizens, as cecilia wikström has also said. our citizens expect a lot from us, and they count on us. i hope we will have a different debate soon, including key legislative files, so let’s move ahead and leave – this should be our goal – a strong legacy for europe’s future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the situation referred to is indeed unfortunate. the presidency is working with the commission and member states to find an arrangement that ensures predictability, in accordance with the international law of the sea concerning disembarkation, and enables efficient asylum and return procedures. in december 2018, the european council invited the council to continue work on the basis of its previous conclusions, that is and i quote here, ‘to seek consensus on the dublin regulation, to reform it based on a balance of responsibility and solidarity, taking into account the persons disembarked following search and rescue operation’. the romanian presidency will therefore take the work forward on this basis. over the course of several presidencies, intensive efforts have been put into an attempt to find a solution acceptable for all. different concepts were tested; however, it has not been possible to agree on a compromise. as already explained, it has been clear that the agreement has to be built around the different aspects of the comprehensive approach, and this is the avenue that the romanian presidency intends to follow. as i said previously, we are working to find an arrangement that brings predictability, in accordance with the international law of the sea concerning disembarkation, and enables efficient asylum and return procedures. i welcome the solution found last week on the two ngo ships, with the support of the commission in liaison with the member states. it is of the utmost importance that we succeed quickly, even if only with a temporary solution. the eu as a whole – not to mention the migrants themselves – does not deserve to see this situation remain unresolved. at the same time, we will continue working on reforming the common european asylum system that will bring about a permanent solution to address the situation in the future. i remain confident that, thanks to all of our efforts, we can make an important step forward toward these goals.
in writing. the case of the 49 shipwrecked people rescued in the mediterranean before christmas by two ngos and who remained at sea until 9 january, was "solved" after 20 days, only as a result of an agreement between european countries. so that is an exceptional solution. we can no longer continue to deal with the issue of redistributing asylum seekers with buffer solutions. the mediterranean remains the preferred location for migration routes from africa, but the cold figures published by eurostat on arrivals and applications for international protection in the european union show that the situation is fully manageable today. comparing 2017 to 2018 data shows a sharp decrease in first-time asylum seekers and a collapse in arrivals. it is true, commissioner avramopoulos: now is the time! we must achieve a real reform of the dublin regulation as soon as possible, which is the only way out of the present crisis. now is the time, but when will the council be held accountable?
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on the analysis of the austrian presidency of the council ((2019/2942(rsp)). i would remind all members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate and no 'blue-card' questions will be accepted. before i give the floor to chancellor sebastian kurz, i would like to thank the austrian presidency for its effective cooperation with the european parliament. i also thank the austrian presidency for inviting me, on behalf of parliament, to attend the event on relations between the european union and africa, which was attended by the heads of the european institutions, together with commission president juncker and council president tusk. i think that this is a very positive outcome for the presidency. i also thank the representatives of the austrian government who have attended the meetings of this parliament and, of course, the representation of vienna in brussels. i shall conclude my thanks and give the floor to chancellor kurz.
chancellor, thank you for your speech, but also your strong engagement against anti-semitism. it is very important for this parliament to defend freedom of religion and dialogue between religions. thank you very much for your work in this direction. we will in this parliament commemorate the holocaust in the coming days.
thank you very much for your engagement. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
we are now beginning the solemn session to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the birth of the single currency, the euro. (video playing) ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, today we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our currency. the euro is used by 340 million european citizens and is the second most important currency in the world. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, three out of four europeans have a positive view of the single currency. the euro has made our internal market more transparent and competitive, facilitating transactions, travel, trade and tourism. during the economic crisis, thanks also to the quantitative easing decided by the european central bank, and i thank president draghi for this initiative, the common currency acted as a shield, preventing the collapse of the weaker economies. however, the crisis also highlighted the incompleteness of the euro building and some errors in the management of the sovereign debt problem. it must be admitted that not everyone is convinced that the single currency will work well, and there are also colleagues in this house who are critical of the construction of the euro and who consider monetary union and excessive austerity to be a brake on growth and employment. i personally remain convinced of the goodness of the euro project, but the euro cannot be an end in itself, it must be an instrument for achieving a social market economy, with the aim of bringing prosperity and jobs to all european citizens. it is therefore imperative that we finish the building we have started, that the banking union and the capital market are completed as soon as possible, and that fiscal and economic union are brought forward. we cannot remain in the middle of the meadow, where we risk being overwhelmed by a new crisis. the latest data indicate a sharp slowdown in growth and industrial production, with the risk of a new recession in some european countries. economic and social disparities are growing between the different euro area territories, and in some regions one in two young people are unemployed. this is completely unacceptable. it is therefore clear that effective instruments to boost investment, support the real economy, create jobs and stimulate social and regional convergence are still lacking. it is therefore urgent to respond to parliament's call for a budget that is adequate to these challenges. i would like to ask you to make sure that today's meeting is not just a celebration, where we are lying on our laurels, but that we are taking action on the problems that are still open. i call on european leaders to take responsibility for urgently initiating the changes needed to strengthen the euro and boost growth and employment, with the aim of giving jobs to as many european citizens as possible, because without work there is no freedom, without work there is no dignity.
mr trichet, former president of the european central bank, you have the floor. please, please, please.
former president of the ecb. mr president, thank you. mr president of the european parliament, former presidents of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the eurogroup, chairmen of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, dear mario, honourable members, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very moved, i am moved. i have the memory of my predecessor, wim duisenberg, who was there at the very start of the euro. i also have the memory of all the presentations before the european parliament from 2003 to 2011. there have always been, as there are today, challenging not to say very challenging times for europe. from that standpoint, i would like to stress four successes of the euro. first, it is a success in terms of currency credibility and stability. the ecb was given the primary mandate of price stability by the open democracies. from its inception, it was made clear how its capacity to deliver stable prices should be judged: less than 2% inflation. since it was founded, the euro's average annual inflation has been around 1.75%. it's better than the former national currencies. the domestic stability of the euro is echoed by its international credibility. the euro is the second international currency after the dollar, far above the third, the yen. second, the euro and the euro area have proven to be remarkably resilient in the face of the worst financial and economic crisis since world war ii. at the inception of the euro, a significant global analysis suggested that the single currency would be short-lived as an audacious experience deserving respect for its boldness but incapable of sustaining the difficulty of hard times. the euro has proved these predictions wrong and has demonstrated a remarkable ability to withstand the worst international circumstances. as for the soundness of the eurozone, to make a long story short, i will say that the 15 countries that were members of the eurozone at the time of the lehman brothers bankruptcy are still members today, of course, including greece, and that four new countries have joined since the beginning of the global financial crisis, the worst since the second world war. i do not think there is a better way to demonstrate the strength and resilience of the euro area. finally, as regards popular support for the euro, i would say, as you said, mr president, that it is remarkable that 75% of our citizens approve of the phrase 'an economic and monetary union with a single currency: the euro' and that only 20% of our citizens are against this proposal. this is the highest percentage since the creation of the euro, since the question was asked. this popular support, which is very often not taken into account in commentaries on europe, is of course the reason for the strength of the euro and the euro area. as for the fourth success of the euro, i would refer to the last imf data mapper, which suggests that there is no significant difference between per capita growth in the euro area and in the us. the same is demonstrated by the world bank data: approximately the same growth per capita in the us and in europe since the setting-up of the euro in 1999. i also think that the euro, as i said, is a process, not an event. one should not underestimate the decisions made since its inception, the strengthening of the stability and growth pact, the ratification of the fiscal stability treaty, the setting up of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure, the ratification of the european stability mechanism treaty, and last but not least, banking union. but as you said, mr president, much remains to be done: as mario says so often, on top of achieving banking union and properly implementing the strengthened economic fiscal and financial governance, i will mention on a personal basis, fleshing out the budget of the eu area, which has been decided in principle, making significant progress in the capital markets union, appointing a minister of economy of the euro area and, last but not least, reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of emu in giving, on the most important issues, the last word to members of the european parliament within a framework where you would have the meps who represent euro area members. during the whole of my term, i can testify that, in my hearings before the european parliament, i benefited from the strongest and most important moral support when we had to preserve price stability and engage at the same time on very bold non-conventional measures, including the purchase of treasury bonds from a number of countries in 2010 and 2011 before the decision taken by the ecb under the presidency of mario. the twin messages that i received from the european parliament were: be faithful to your mandate and deliver price stability; be innovative and bold enough, when necessary, to be commensurate with your responsibilities in times of exceptional crisis. i can only express my gratitude to the european parliament by saying that i looked at the eurobarometer and i could see that the trust in the european parliament that fellow citizens have in it is important, superior of course to the non-trust fellow citizen, and it is a better result than what we see for the national parliaments. i mention that very cautiously in passing. jean monnet once wrote: "no one can say today what the shape of the europe we will live in tomorrow will be, because the change that will arise from change is unpredictable". nobody can say today what europe will be tomorrow because future changes, fostered by today's changes, are unpredictable. i would say that this remark remains true as far as the long-term future of the european union is concerned, but i will be bold enough to say that we already know that tomorrow's europe will benefit from its credible single currency, the euro, as well as from its trusted european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the eurogroup, dear jean—claude, honourable members of the european parliament, it is with great pleasure that i am here today to celebrate with you the first 20 years of the euro. the euro is the most tangible representation of european integration that our citizens encounter on a daily basis. it is fitting, then, to celebrate this anniversary here with the directly elected representatives of all our citizens. over the years here, elected representatives and leaders and elected representatives in other parliaments have rightly recognised that ensuring economic prosperity and stability over the long term is a shared challenge that is best faced collectively. we are stronger together. with the single market, we have a powerful engine of sustainable growth to underpin our living standards. the euro has safeguarded the integrity of the single market. today, our economies are integrated to a point that was not imaginable when the euro was designed. intra-eu exports have risen from about 13% of gdp to 20% today, but especially, value chains are everywhere today in the euro area. the euro has also produced two decades of price stability, including in countries where this was a long-lost memory. stable prices have fostered people’s confidence in the value of their savings, which is one of the conditions for prosperity. based on such confidence, firms invest and create new jobs. today, most challenges are global and can only be addressed together. it is this ‘togetherness’ that magnifies the ability of individual countries to retain their sovereignty over the relevant matters, sovereignty that would otherwise be lost in the global world. (applause) it is precisely in this sense that the single currency has given to all members of the euro area their monetary policy sovereignty, compared with the pre—existing monetary arrangements. it is together that we have a voice – and we had a voice – in the regulation of international financial markets, a voice which has been fundamental in reshaping the world financial regulation after the great financial crisis. however, in some countries, not all of the euro’s benefits have been realised in full. partly, this is because reforms at national level are necessary – and by the way, they would be so under any monetary system – to produce sustainable growth; partly, it is because the economic and monetary union (emu) remains incomplete. great progress has been achieved since the crisis struck, but more work still needs to be done; and there is no alternative to a future where we will all continue to work together to make our economic and monetary union an even stronger engine of prosperity for all its member states. the european parliament has had and will have a fundamental role in guiding and designing our european future. in the past, together with the eu leaders, the european parliament took the fundamental decisions to create the single market, and in its wake, the euro. today, we are all reaping the benefits of their commitment, of your commitment, and we want future generations of europeans to benefit similarly from our commitment as well. today, our duty is to complete what was started two decades ago.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, today's event is a surprise event. remember, when we started the process of moving towards the single currency, many people thought we were crazy, saying that there was no way this monetary union between such disparate countries could work. you don't hear them as much these days. meps here and elsewhere, journalists everywhere, law professors, especially in germany, professors of economics, also in germany - everyone told us that we were embarking on an adventure that would lead the european union to the edge of the abyss. we are far from the abyss, because today we can see with satisfaction, almost with happiness, that the work we started twenty years ago has been crowned with success. the credit goes to those who were planning for the future. i would like to mention two of my predecessors in the various posts that i have held: the luxembourg prime minister pierre werner, without whom - and without whose imagination - nothing would have been possible, and jacques delors, who was a great architect of the european monetary construction. i could add other names. many, but not so many, were those who, on the basis of their deep-seated continental and european conviction, thought that the adventure was worth undertaking. i was personally closely involved in the venture, which was a success. in 1991, as president of the intergovernmental conference, i led, together with others - notably jean-claude trichet - the process which led to the maastricht treaty. the monetary part of the maastricht treaty is a noble, successful part, whereas the political part was weaker, in fact mediocre. when i signed the maastricht treaty on 7 february 1992 - i am the only signatory to the treaty still active in politics - i thought that the logic and dynamism of the single currency would lead us to deepen political union. great disappointment, because it wasn't. the economic and social convergence between the various euro area countries is also lacking. i have always considered that the european central bank has the main credit for the success of the single currency, since the european central bank, whose principle of independence was heavily challenged when we started work in january 1991, has ensured that the credibility of the single currency was never challenged by the markets or by the public. it's a frenchman, i don't know which one... now i know which one... the great debates cast their shadows. (david coburn off the mic: mrs may?) that was yesterday. without the independent central bank - and we had to fight for the principle of central bank independence - the single currency would not have been as successful as it is today. there are weaknesses. i was among those who, together with mr delors, mr maystadt and mr bérégovoy, had from the outset advocated economic governance for the euro area. it is a major weakness that the coordination of economic policies is not perfect. it will never be, but we should have done more in the area of economic policy coordination, including fiscal and budgetary policy. it is a weakness that remains and therefore we cannot give up. but we must revive this debate, which is essential for the construction that lies ahead. there has been much criticism of the eurozone policy. this criticism is very personal to me because i was president of the eurogroup at the time of the most serious economic and financial crisis. yes, there has been unthinking austerity, not because we wanted to punish those who were in work and those who were unemployed, but because structural reforms, regardless of the monetary regime in which we find ourselves, remain essential. i regret that we have given too much weight to the influence of the international monetary fund. at the time of the outbreak of the crisis, many of us thought that europe had enough muscle to be able to withstand the looming crisis on its own, without the influence of the international monetary fund. if california is in trouble, it's not going to the international monetary fund, it's going to the united states of america. we should have done the same. i have also always regretted the lack of solidarity that has emerged in the context of what is commonly called the greek crisis. we have not shown enough solidarity with greece. we have insulted and abused this country, and i am glad to see that greece, portugal and other countries have found, not a place in the sun, but a place among the old democracies of europe. there are old people here. i'm not saying everything today, because i want to preserve a certain tension for my memoirs, an which i must think, and which i will also name ross and reiter. i remain of the opinion that the european monetary union is a peace policy with other means. (beifall) and so i would like to thank yesterday also on behalf of my generation those who made all this possible. the euro, the european monetary union is the only contribution my generation could make to the completion of the european unification work. old war made so made, like we never could have, like nachkriegskinder, die nicht mehr wissen, where it actually goes. i would like to thank helmut kohl yesterday, without whom all this would not have been possible. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december decided to extend the mandate of the european council to include the european parliament. many governments have, in addition, had to leave their offices in preparation for the euro-processes. i would like to mention my friend wim kok, who has recently died and who has made a very significant contribution to european economic and monetary union. we're going to their house! (beifall)
president of the eurogroup. – mr president, mr president of the european commission, mr president of the european central bank, dear jean-claude trichet, honourable members of the european parliament. it is a pleasure to join you today to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the launch of the euro. the euro is one of the greatest achievements in the history of european integration. our single currency provides a solid anchor for the creation of jobs and growth across europe. the euro has become a symbol of the european identity. it became a popular idea among 340 million people in 19 euro-area countries as it enjoys greater support today than ever before. as the world’s second most-used currency, it reinforces europe’s presence on the global scene. many predicted a spectacular failure of the euro, but we proved them wrong. not all of the past 20 years have indeed been easy. the financial and sovereign debt crises have put the single currency to the test. shortcomings in the architecture of the economic and monetary union came to the surface. still, the single currency emerged stronger from the crises, thanks to committed national policy action and major improvements in the euro area’s institutional framework. the establishment of the european stability mechanism and the banking union has strengthened economic policy coordination, which illustrates precisely this point. today the euro area is enjoying a broad-based economic expansion, which started in 2013. the outlook is positive. despite some loss of momentum and some downside risks that have been accumulating. steady job creation has allowed increasingly more people to benefit from this expansion. the health of public finances and of the banking sector has also been improving. much has been achieved during these 20 years. nevertheless, more is needed to ensure that the euro area is well equipped to handle future crises. the eurogroup has been doing its part. its work paved the way for an agreement at the december euro summit on strengthening our single currency. this was the single biggest reform of the euro performed outside the crisis context. the agreement will allow for a more effective and broader use of the european stability mechanism and make our system of bank resolution more credible. importantly, leaders also agreed to establish a euro area budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness. i believe this project can, in time, go a long way towards making the euro stable and inclusive. the work on this file is our priority in the months ahead, but the eurogroup will continue working on other important issues, such as the european deposit insurance scheme and liquidity in resolution. step by step, we are increasing the resilience and the smooth functioning of the currency union. euro area countries and their citizens will thus be in a better position to reap the benefits of the single currency for the next 20 years and beyond. we cannot repeat it often enough that the euro is not – and never was – an end in itself. it is a tool, intended to increase the prosperity of the peoples of europe. it is our responsibility to ensure that it lives up to its promise, and even more so in these uncertain times. it is our task to generate a more prosperous society, a more inclusive society, a society with less inequality within each member state and between our member states. i just wish to leave you today with the desire to say ‘long live the euro, long live a stronger euro’. thank you for your attention. (applause)
president of the committee of economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to start by paying tribute to previous and current members of this house who have contributed to the success of the euro and to enhancing its democratic oversight and legitimacy. in particular, i would like to pay homage to my predecessors, karl von wogau, christa randzio—plath, pervenche berès and sharon bowles, and i’m pleased to see that most of them are here today. since its design, the euro has been a powerful economic tool and an ambitious political project. first, the single currency is an indispensable complement to the single market, which has made possible its deepening and has boosted the integration of value chains and the strength of our economies. second, as president draghi has just recalled, the euro is a prerequisite for preserving and recovering shared monetary sovereignty, after the crisis of the bretton woods order and the development of globalisation, and this is particularly true for the more vulnerable member states. third, the euro is a cornerstone of a peaceful and closer union and a global actor after the end of the cold war and german unification. we will never forget the vision and the courage of helmut kohl, françois mitterrand and jacques delors. in other words, a strong euro is a fundamental condition for protecting and relaunching the european economic, social and political model, faced with the transformations of our time. ten years ago, when we were celebrating the euro in this house, the financial crisis was about to shake its foundations. that crisis has provided us with two lessons. the first is that, despite being incomplete, the strength and resilience of the euro are rooted in the common political determination to preserve its integrity. here, the resolve of the european central bank and of its presidents has been decisive, and the euro has protected the people during the crisis. we should, of course, be able to distinguish between the euro and the economic policies conducted during the crisis, including some economic policy mistakes which were made at that time. the second lesson is that, if we want to achieve our ambitious goals, resilience is not enough. we need to complement our common currency with a robust, democratic economic and social union. let us not wait until another crisis happens to develop the necessary tools to ensure stability and common prosperity for all our citizens. the euro is a journey, and it is time to move forward. i am sure that this and the next parliament will fully play their part.
the avena quartet will now play the european anthem. (the sitting was suspended until the vote was taken)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief. i would just like to remind the house of a former colleague of ours who passed away last friday, former mep enzo erminio boso, a good, generous man, a former policeman who devoted his political life to defending the mountain people. a memory, and i also want to tell him, dear herminio, you die but our ideas do not die.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the presentation of the work programme of the romanian presidency (2018/2918 ((rsp)). i take this opportunity to greet the prime minister of the republic of romania, our colleague for many years, viorica dăncilă, who has the floor.
you have a question for mr ujazdowski.
you have asked to speak in order to put a question. this is a request to the president. but if you don't have any questions...
then you can intervene later.
i am sorry, but you have raised a point in relation to president tajani, who was in the chamber, and therefore you know perfectly well, you know perfectly well the matter. i will report back to you, but that was the point of your intervention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam prime minister, first of all i would like to wish you a very happy presidency and thank you for the four priorities you have set out. i would like to speak on the question of territorial convergence. i believe that no territory, as you have also mentioned, should be left behind. and precisely because i believe this, i believe that, as we said here in the european parliament a short while ago, we also need an agenda for the territories left behind, that is to say, the rural, mountainous and peripheral ones. as you know, there is an agenda for urban areas, but there is also an agenda for these territories. you want to be the ones to take up this request from parliament, also through an initiative that will initiate a first reflection which can then lead to the drawing up of the agenda. i think it would be very important for your presidency. romania is a territory that has peripheral areas of europe, rural areas, mountainous areas, i think it would be important. lastly, more than 20 million young people will vote for the first time in the european elections. what do you think you can do to involve them more and thus help them to come and vote in the european elections?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the president of the council, and at this stage to the romanian president, who has been a valued colleague in our group and, above all, in our parliament. i would like to stress a few points, because many of these issues have already been discussed, especially by my colleagues in the group, whose views i fully endorse, and i would like to draw attention to two important points. the social pillar is one of the four pillars which the romanian presidency has set as the basis of its programme and which i believe can be a very important element in the qualification of europe's capacity to act at this critical stage for the citizens of europe in so many countries. in some countries the social tension that is fuelling our citizens is more evident, in others it is more subtle, but everywhere there is this demand for a europe that is closer to the needs, starting with work, starting with welfare, starting with children. my group particularly insists on the child guarantee. the other aspect is industry. i see them together because a europe which grows more is also a europe which can be closer to the demands and needs. i am thinking of horizon and others, which this presidency will have to bring to a conclusion with its capacity and with the contribution of all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam prime minister, welcome back to the chamber of the european parliament. the imminence of the european elections leaves the romanian presidency very little time to complete important legislative work with parliament. given the short time available, i would like to focus on an important subject which is particularly close to my heart, namely the single market, which is widely recognised as one of the great successes of european integration and which unfortunately still has many weaknesses and criticisms which in recent times, in recent years, have fuelled fears and anti-europeanism. i think we must continue to press ahead with its completion by defining an effective framework of rules governing in particular the digital transformation of our society and our economy. finally, i would like to focus on the market surveillance regulation, which i hope, together with the romanian presidency, will be able to finalize in the negotiations in the coming weeks. i believe that european citizens should be assured that there are safe and lawful products on the market, including and especially those sold online. it is a regulation we need to better protect european consumers and to ensure fair competition for businesses on our continent.
mr preda, please.
the debate is closed.
i'll get a transcript of what happened, and then we can evaluate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the report by mr gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report 2017 of the ecb (2018/2101(ini)) (a8-0424/2018) is on the agenda.
president of the european central bank. – mr president of the european parliament, mr vice—president of the commission, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very pleased to be here to discuss with you the ecb’s activities and your draft resolution on the ecb’s annual report 2017. twenty years ago, on 1 january 1999, the euro was officially introduced and the eurosystem started its monetary policy operations. establishing a single currency area between 11 european countries was a historic step for our continent and certainly a quantum leap in our economic integration. its twentieth anniversary gives us an opportunity to reflect on its successes, but also to consider what still needs to be done for the euro to deliver its full benefits. in this context, i would like to use my remarks to take a look back at the ecb’s monetary policy, to take stock of what we have learned and to highlight the challenges that remain. i will mostly focus on the past seven years, which coincide with my term as ecb president. the two decades in which the euro has existed could hardly have been more different. the first decade was the culmination of a thirty—year period of macroeconomic stability – the era known as the ‘great moderation’. the second decade then produced the worst economic and financial crisis since the great depression. naturally, these periods required very different monetary policy responses and different tools to implement them. as the pre—crisis period was characterised by moderate swings in the economic cycle, the ecb was able to ensure price stability mainly by adjusting its policy rates. but the crisis of 2008 fundamentally changed the economic and financial landscape in which we operated. new instruments became essential to safeguard the effectiveness of our monetary policy and stabilise the euro area economy. this in turn required us to refine our approach to central bank communication and accountability. when i arrived at the ecb in november 2011, the euro area faced a very challenging set of circumstances. the economy had bounced back from the post-lehman crisis in a similar manner to other jurisdictions. but, from 2010 onwards, a loss of confidence in the sustainability of sovereign debt had produced a vicious circle of rising borrowing costs, financial fragmentation, and contracting economic activity. cuts in key ecb interest rates were not being passed on to firms and households to the same extent in every euro area country. we were witnessing a serious disruption in the monetary policy transmission mechanism which, if left untended, would have posed a profound threat to price stability. the ecb responded with two sets of policies. first, central bank liquidity was made available to banks for up to three years and a range of collateral that banks could use to access central bank money was expanded. this helped reduce fragmentation in banks’ funding conditions. second, the ecb announced what we called outright monetary transactions (omts) in the summer of 2012, which removed the redenomination risk in government bond markets stemming from fears of a possible euro break—up. yet the sovereign debt crisis left a deep scar on the economy. unemployment rose steeply, firms cut back on investment and loan delinquencies increased. even though financial fragmentation was diminishing, banks began to shrink their balance sheets and became less willing to lend. this produced a renewed cycle of contracting credit growth and weak demand dynamics. inflation drifted downwards. with inflation now well below our objective, the ecb faced a new type of policy challenge. we needed not only to repair the transmission problems created by deleveraging banks. we also needed to expand our policy stance to counteract deflationary pressures. so, in june 2014, we launched our targeted long—term refinancing operations, which once more provided long—term liquidity to banks – but conditional on extending credit to the private sector. we introduced negative rates on excess reserves to further encourage banks to lend to households and firms and, soon after, we announced our asset purchase programme (app), buying asset—backed securities and covered bonds. faced with a continued decline in inflation and a heightened risk of de—anchoring of inflation expectations, in january 2015 we expanded the asset purchase programme to include public sector securities. since then, both the size and duration of our asset purchases have been recalibrated in response to changes in the inflation outlook. our asset purchases have also been complemented by further cuts in policy rates and the use of what we call ‘forward guidance’. communicating our expectations about future policy, along with the conditions that would warrant a change in the policy stance, has successfully contributed to reduce the uncertainty around the expected future path of short—term interest rates, thereby helping to preserve accommodative financing conditions. supported by these policy measures, the euro area economy has steadily recovered. we have now seen 22 consecutive quarters of economic growth. there are 9.6 million more people in employment in the euro area than there were in the second quarter of 2013, which was the worst point of the crisis – so in five years. the unemployment rate has declined to 7.9%, its lowest level since october 2008, and the employment rate of people aged 15-74 has risen from 54% in 1999 to 59% in the second quarter of 2018, the highest rate ever recorded in the euro area. the main motor of the recovery has been the domestic economy, driven by a strengthening in domestic demand and improving labour markets. that underlying strength of the economy has underpinned our confidence that inflation would converge towards our inflation aim in a sustained manner. as such, since 2017, we have gradually reduced the monthly pace of net asset purchases. we decided to end our net purchases in december last year, confident that the sustained convergence of inflation to our aim would proceed. at the same time, recent economic developments have been weaker than expected and uncertainties, notably related to global factors, remain prominent. so there is no room for complacency here. a significant amount of monetary policy stimulus is still needed to support the further build—up of domestic price pressures and headline inflation developments over the medium term. our forward guidance on key ecb interest rates, reinforced by the reinvestments of the sizeable stock of assets we have acquired so far, continues to provide the necessary degree of monetary accommodation for a sustained convergence of inflation to our objective. so what have we learned from our experience? the ecb’s monetary framework rests on three elements: a clear mandate to achieve price stability; independence over the instruments we can use to achieve our mandate; and a strong accountability framework. the importance of each of these elements has been reinforced by the crisis. first, we have seen that a well—defined mandate is vital for our credibility with the public, because it guarantees that the ecb will always act in the interest of the whole euro area and will not be swayed by interest groups. second, we have seen that instrument independence is key to an effective monetary policy since it allows the central bank to act quickly and flexibly to shocks, especially in exceptional times. indeed, a well—equipped toolbox, comprising both standard and non—standard instruments, has proven indispensable in conditions where monetary policy transmission is impaired or where space for interest rate cuts is limited. third, we have seen the importance of a strong accountability framework, particularly when central banks have to use new tools that are not well understood by the public. central banks are powerful and independent, but they are not elected. the combination can only be squared if they are held accountable by elected authorities. in light of this, we have stepped up our efforts to improve our communication and strengthen our accountability in recent years. the governing council has started to publish the accounts of its monetary policy meetings. the ecb and the european parliament have increased the intensity and focus of their exchanges. all this has provided us with more opportunities to explain our decisions and demonstrate how the ecb is acting in accordance with its mandate, which is a fundamental pillar of its legitimacy. the crisis has offered many lessons beyond monetary policy too. the euro area entered the crisis with an incomplete institutional and regulatory framework, not only for the banking sector but also in other areas of economic policy. the creation of the banking union and the european stability mechanism has strengthened the ability of the eu authorities to intervene decisively in future crises. reforms at national level and the strong political commitment to the euro shown by european policymakers were equally instrumental in strengthening the foundations of our common project. but the necessary changes took time and it was time that the euro area lost in its recovery. our monetary union is now in a better shape, but further progress can, and should, be made. as i had the opportunity to discuss during my regular hearing before the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and as your draft resolution points out, the priority now is to increase the resilience of the euro area. this would also strengthen the transmission of monetary policy in future downturns. resilience depends on the euro area being able to use a broad policy mix involving monetary, fiscal, prudential and structural instruments. let me now conclude. the first two decades of the euro area have seen an evolution in the way the ecb conducts its monetary policy. faced with unprecedented threats to price stability, the ecb adapted its policy instruments to continue delivering on its mandate. we will continue to do so if and when needed, in compliance with our mandate as defined by the eu treaties, and with all the independence over our tools as defined by our legal framework. today, we can say that the euro area has emerged from a crisis so severe as to threaten at times its existence. we are out of it primarily because of the resilience, the energy, and the entrepreneurial capacity of european citizens, as well as their trust in their leaders’ commitment to the euro. our policy response and the important changes to the architecture of the economic and monetary union (emu) in the meantime also helped the euro area out of the crisis. in many ways we have a stronger monetary union today than we had in 2008. this is also reflected in the euro’s popularity among euro area citizens, which is currently – as i was reminded a moment ago – at its highest level since it was introduced. but more work is still necessary to complete the emu so as to make it more resilient in the face of future crises. to deliver its full benefits, the european union requires permanent political commitment, at both national and european levels, and across policy areas. in this respect i can testify to the essential role the european parliament has played during the challenging years of the crisis and i am certain that it will also be fundamental in carrying out the remaining work until the completion of economic and monetary union. the credibility of the ecb rests on its independence and this is based on its accountability with respect to its mandate, as enshrined in the eu treaties. the european parliament, in holding the ecb to account, gives legitimacy to its independence. since this is my last hearing before this plenary as ecb president, let me thank all of you for how this process has been carried out during my mandate, for the valued interactions with you, and the opportunity you have given me to explain the ecb’s policies. (applause)
i thank you, mr president, for your words to the european parliament, and we will continue to work together until the end of your term of office, even though this was your last speech on this subject, but we will continue to work together until the end of your term of office. thank you again for coming and for your cooperation. i now give the floor to the vice-president of the european commission, mr valdis dombrovskis.
vice—president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr gabriel mato and the members of the committee on economic affairs for this report. it’s a pleasure to be here to discuss it with you and mario draghi and that is all the more true in the context of the 20th anniversary of the euro. in those twenty years the euro has proved itself a successful currency which is widely supported by people. around three—quarters of europeans think that having the euro is a good thing for europe. a debate on the european central bank’s activities by the european parliament is an important manifestation of democratic accountability. let me start by saying that the commission largely shares the general thrust of the report discussed here today. the commission shares the report’s views that the ecb’s independence in the conduct of its monetary policy as enshrined in the treaties is crucial to the objective of safeguarding price stability. independence and accountability are intertwined and the commission also acknowledges the european central bank’s efforts to improve transparency and democratic accountability vis-à-vis european citizens and the european parliament. we also share the view expressed in the report that monetary policy alone cannot sufficiently achieve sustainable economic growth and that the euro area economy should be supported by a mix of ambitious, socially balanced, growth—friendly and productivity—enhancing structural reforms and fiscal policies in line with the stability and growth pact. allow me also to welcome the call in the report to accelerate the capital markets union in order to deepen financial integration. this will help in building up resilience to shocks and making the transmission of monetary policy across the monetary union more effective. the commission shares the report’s view that deeper and better connected european capital markets, which will result from the capital markets union and from the step—by—step completion of the banking union, will foster the international standing of the euro. this point was also emphasised in our communication on a stronger international role for the euro that we presented on 5 december 2018. i have no doubt that today’s debate will confirm the constructive engagement that has been developed between the european parliament and the european central bank over the past years.
i would like to thank mr draghi for his presence and mr mato for the positive work he has done in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. without going into the details of the report, i would like to stress the importance of discussing and adopting this report on the day when parliament is celebrating 20 years of the euro, a work of economic and monetary integration which is not only important but in some ways truly unprecedented. the euro is undoubtedly a success story in european history, but it is also an incomplete construction. the most visible and most critical weaknesses are the incompleteness of monetary and banking union with the lack of a fully european deposit guarantee scheme and the lack of a social and fiscal arm of monetary union with its own budget. some people in this house and outside it turn their noses up at these assessments, almost elevating themselves, if i may use the expression, to the level of austerity, underestimating that solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. there's never enough national responsibility for them. in too many circumstances, each time, additional steps have been added, creating and exacerbating divisions within the union, and as a result, we are still, twenty years after the creation of the euro, discussing edis at the technical level, the eurozone budget, social rights and i will stop there. and that is the spirit in which we have conducted the discussion on the ecb's annual report in the econ committee, aware of the fundamental role that the institution you, mr draghi, chair, has played. i therefore turn to my colleagues in this house, to the european leaders, also in the light of the disappointing outcome of the last european council in december. the extraordinary monetary policy measures implemented by the ecb have safeguarded the stability of the euro area, but our fellow citizens have nevertheless suffered from the crisis, and europe has not been able to respond to the call for protection. what can we do? i think that we should start by following our words with action, and that is to say, let us not close ourselves up in national borders.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, you have celebrated the 20th anniversary of the single currency today, and i think it is a good time to take a concrete look at the figures and the evolution of the economies and the living conditions of the citizens of the euro area, because i do not see any of this celebrating, looking at the data. all the promises made to the european citizens about the birth of the euro have been broken. in these 20 years, the euro has brought income and performance differences between countries, it has brought low growth. today, the eurozone is the continent or agglomeration that is growing less than its competitors, and unemployment remains high: that's twice the size of the united states today. and even her tenure as president of the central bank has seen her fail to achieve even the statutory objectives that the ecb has: inflation is running, mostly staying at the pole and far from being self-sustaining towards 2%, and the ecb has printed a lot of money that has not reached the real economy. for every 100 euros printed by the european central bank, only about 29 have reached households and businesses. i think that looking at this picture there is little to celebrate, and it is an important moment of reflection for those who have been the failures of the euro and of his mandate as president of this central bank.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs and president draghi for their work. today, 20 years after the introduction of the euro, this report is another reminder of the important role played by the central bank in recent years. despite the nonsense of some colleagues, there is no doubt that the strengthening of citizens' confidence in the common currency at such a difficult time is an important signal: the fight against deflation, the maintenance of the monetary stability of the union, the development of the european banking union. it would be equally important, however, for the european central bank to also take into account the social impact of its policies, as required by the paris agreement. the recent case of the compulsory retirement of banca carige in italy highlights a positive role that the ecb can and does play in protecting small savers and investors. we must generalise this role, carrying forward the argument that the first thing to do is to complete the banking union with a deposit guarantee system that is safe and feasible for everyone. we will be here in parliament, watching the progress and the results in the future, and we wish you all the best for the end of your mandate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, i am speaking to you as an italian, that is to say as a citizen of a country which was a founding member of the european union, and which, i recall, is also the third largest contributor to the union. italy has had a primary surplus for 25 years, so the story that italians have lived beyond their means is a colossal lie, probably invented by german or french bankers. if we have a liability every year, it is only because of the interest on a public debt which has grown immensely, especially in the 1980s thanks to interest rates of up to 10%, so a real extortion. in this absurd way, we have reached a total of 2 300 billion in public debt, on which the italians have so far paid 3 500 billion in interest, i.e. one and a half times the debt itself. it was a scandal. now this public debt is bought by european banks, it is also bought by german banks, french banks and it is also bought with money lent by the ecb at very low interest rates, at very low interest rates and without any conditionality, which has allowed these banks to speculate precisely towards those countries with high spreads. and they buy it, unfortunately, with money created out of thin air, just by adding zeros to the computer. the problem is that these interests are paid by the italian citizens with the real economy, they pay with real sweat, not with a sweat invented out of nothing. but this system seems to satisfy everyone, the banks are happy because they are in fact speculating quietly, allowing their capital to return, the states are satisfied with placing their government bonds, unfortunately the real economy is paying the price. the real economy is being paid for by small and medium-sized enterprises, those companies that no longer have access to credit, and where there is no access to credit, unemployment rises. unemployment in the european union has reached alarming levels in countries where public debt has risen; i am talking about greece and spain and, unfortunately, also italy. now, if we read article 127 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it says that in addition to price stability - you said that this has basically been achieved - the ecb must contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives, namely to combat unemployment and promote balanced economic growth. so my question is: is the ecb really going to fight financial speculation? does the ecb really intend to act in a targeted and differentiated way to zero in on the spreads of individual member states? does the ecb really intend to reset the spread mechanism which is destroying the economies of member states such as italy and inevitably destroying or irretrievably weakening the european union itself?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the enormous burden of more than 650 lawsuits and actions of various kinds brought by various parties, not just banks, against the single resolution authority and the various european institutions involved in the supervision and management of banking crises is a very heavy fact, which should concern us all. i would draw your attention to this issue, which is not being addressed, despite the very clear warning from the european court of auditors, which has noted the magnitude of the potential liabilities facing the european financial system as a result of the resolution procedures in banks at risk of failure. do you not think that this is a very, very significant burden on the credibility of both the resolution committee and the european commission and the european council? we must speak clearly and state the facts when we are addressing ourselves as the representatives of the real people and therefore, as has been very well said, the real economy that you have massacred.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that mr langen has left, but he said that my group wants to help the italian banks, and i think he also wants to help the german banks, and i wanted to ask him what he thought about nordbank, for example, which is very exposed to bad loans in the shipping sector, and if it is not right perhaps to consider a somewhat sensitive attitude when dealing with large stocks of bad loans. and i regret that very often the ecb, which perhaps through its supervisory mechanism takes suggestions from some private banks, as has recently also come out in the press in germany, from blackrock in the course of its evaluations and stress tests, well, it could, in my opinion, have more sensitivity with regard to a subject of this kind. in germany, france and elsewhere, banks have received hundreds of billions of dollars from the public to bail out their banking systems. italy is making great efforts: i think it is right to have a little sensitivity and respect for those who are doing things now to prevent much bigger problems from being created throughout europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure financial stability, we must move towards completing the banking union by adopting measures to reduce banking risks. the objective of the banking union is, in addition to ensuring financial stability, to preserve the diversity of sustainable banking models in the european union, avoiding the european banking system itself to be led towards a single model or one that penalizes small banks, because such diversity allows better to meet the demands of citizens and their projects. the response times of european banking supervision need to be improved, in particular a common eu approach to anti-money laundering rules in the banking union, clearly allocating competences and strengthening the action of the european banking authority. finally, i am not hiding my concern about the spread of the so-called shadow banking system in the european union, which now accounts for 40% of the union's financial system. on these points i ask the commission to help to fill the gaps still remaining in the regulations in force as a matter of urgency.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr fernandes and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. the 2008 crisis led to an unprecedented fall in investment, both public and private, across the european union. in recent years, investment conditions in europe have improved due to a more favourable economic situation, flexibility in the interpretation of the stability pact, new initiatives such as the european fund for strategic investments, but investment volumes in europe still remain below the average level reached in the decade before the crisis, and new and more important gaps have also opened in areas related to innovation, physical and social infrastructure, and climate change. this situation raises concerns for the future of europe's competitiveness and social cohesion, for its long-term growth and for the creation of new jobs. it is therefore good that the commission, in proposing the establishment of the investeu programme, has sought not only to renew but also to intensify support for investment. investeu is not just a tool to build on the good experience of the efsi and other projects developed in recent years. in addition to further strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation and sustainable infrastructure, this programme intends to begin addressing the huge gap in social infrastructure, as highlighted in the report of the task force on investment in social infrastructure last january, by ensuring the feasibility of projects in the fields of education, health and social housing. the main objective of investeu is to fill the investment gap in the sectors and geographical areas where it is most needed, and to do this parliament has intervened with a number of improvement amendments to the commission's text. first, we have established that the cost of the guarantee to the promoters of the investment will be exclusively linked to the characteristics and risk profile of the underlying transactions, and that more favourable conditions may be applied to promote the construction of investment platforms, to encourage investment in areas where the investment gap is higher, or to encourage intervention in those areas where the need for investment is more pronounced. secondly, in addition to reiterating that the eib will continue to be the commission's main financial partner in the framework of investeu, we have highlighted the important role of national promotional banks in financing investment projects. national promotional banks will be able to have direct access to the european guarantee, which will allow greater flexibility and therefore greater possibilities for financing projects, with positive effects on the level of investment and the creation of new jobs. finally, we have established that member states will not only be able to channel part of their allocated resources under the cohesion policy funds, but will also be able to contribute additional resources which will, in principle, be considered as one-off contributions compared to the structural deficit calculation for the purposes of the stability and growth pact. the text we are about to vote on is overall balanced, including the part requiring that at least 65% of investment under the sustainable infrastructure window contribute to the objectives of the paris climate and environment agreements. i therefore ask that the text voted by the econ committee be maintained with regard to this ceiling of 65%. with this text, i believe, we are giving a concrete answer to those who are calling for europe to do more for investment, growth and jobs.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this very good and encouraging debate. i will answer some of the concerns or questions and comment on some of the ideas raised by honourable members. first, i have to say that the investeu fund is more of a policy driven fund than the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) has been. this doesn’t mean that projects are selected politically – not at all. they are selected according to the quality of the project and whether efsi can really create some added value. the idea is to address policies like climate change or improve digitalisation or increase financing for small and medium-sized companies, which are lacking finance in certain member states. this is what i mean when saying that it’s a more policy driven fund. second, the basic idea of efsi will be maintained, meaning that investeu is also a demand driven fund. nobody is forced to use efsi if they are not willing to, but on the other hand you can get efsi financing if you apply. the third element is that efsi’s idea is to crowd in private liquidity, private money for investments – from the bank account for investments – which creates jobs and competitiveness and addresses our policy targets. by pooling together 13 existing financial instruments, it should be clear to everybody that, from the end user’s point of view, investeu is much easier to use. so you don’t need to know all the 13 different funds and think about what might be suitable for your use. you only have to know that there is an investeu fund which can provide guarantees of different kinds of financing for your projects. in addition to this combination or pooling together of 13 funds, we will pool together 13 different advisory services. again, from an end user’s point of view, applying technical assistance becomes much easier. the novelty in the investeu fund – or one of them – is that we will allocate 25% of current fees, according to demand, from financial institutions other than the eib. the eib is a valuable partner for the commission – also in the future – but we want to improve and encourage new financial innovations. the eib is not always willing or capable or it doesn’t want to invest in all the different projects which someone else could do – national promotional banks or the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) or the council of europe bank. i believe that this 25% allocation to banks other than the eib will create clear added value. i also want to remind all honourable members, if you are interested, to look at what efsi has achieved. just visit efsi’s website. you can easily find it if you google efsi or go to the eib’s website. every single project which has been signed is mentioned and you can just click on your own country and there’s a list of the projects which are already signed in your country. efsi has not been the medicine for all diseases and neither is the investeu fund the medicine which addresses all the probable problems in the world, but it’s a valuable additional investment tool which can create concrete jobs and modernise our economy, making it more sustainable, and create added value to our welfare societies. a final point, on efsi: one thing which makes me especially happy when looking at what efsi has achieved is to look at the countries which have mostly benefited from efsi. looking at efsi investment per country’s gdp, the number one user is greece, second estonia, third portugal, fourth spain, and fifth lithuania. latvia is sixth, bulgaria seventh, finland eighth, poland ninth, and italy tenth. so mostly the financing has gone in the right direction, exactly to the countries and regions of those countries which have had some financial constraints. when looking at the quality of the projects, it’s also impressive. it has improved since we started efsi and i am sure that investeu will do the same in the future.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this was a rich debate, reflecting the broad agreement of this house on the text which was approved by the two committees, econ and budg. i believe that, as vice-president katainen also said, we are facing a positive incremental process. the efsi has been a success, but it has certainly not been able to exploit its full potential in terms of the quality of its investments and its ability to fully address market failures. investeu, as proposed by the commission, and even more so as improved by this parliament, i believe strikes a good balance between policy orientation, flexibility, granularity and at the same time economies of scale. of course, certainty about resources is essential, so we hope that the mff will also be able to match the quantitative strengthening and the qualitative improvement that we have achieved with our investeu text. our group will be strictly in line with the outcome of the committees' vote and i really hope that some of the amendments which are detrimental will not be adopted, to give a strong signal also with regard to the centrality of the sustainability objective. i thank parliament for this.
in writing. the association agreement between the european union and central america, the first genuine interregional association agreement ratified by the european union, has undoubtedly produced positive developments in trade policy, despite the complexity of the international economic environment. however, the failure to implement the pillars of political dialogue and cooperation has not allowed for significant progress to be made in promoting democracy and the rule of law. the agreement should therefore be updated five years after its entry into force by introducing a dispute settlement mechanism which also provides for the use of sanctions in the event of serious human rights violations; the european union should support the central american states in promoting legislative reforms aimed at preventing and eradicating widespread phenomena such as child labour and violence against trade unionists, human rights defenders or indigenous peoples. finally, i would stress that among the provisions to be updated to make the agreement more effective, those relating to small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) stand out so that they can benefit from the agreement. the commission should promote information campaigns on the opportunities arising from the agreement and develop legal, financial and administrative instruments to support the internationalisation of smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, globalisation has often had negative effects on the sustainability of our production and social protection systems, so europe's role should be to protect its citizens from these negative effects, to offer protection against unfair competition, to promote a future of sustainable growth that puts people at the centre. for these reasons, i would like to stress the importance of this fund, which has already provided practical support on many occasions to regions and communities in difficulty. i welcome the result achieved by our group in lowering the minimum threshold for activating the fund and also the possibility of taking account of the various companies involved. too often the smaller cases have not been taken into account, but they would have deserved it because of the social impact on the territories, their size, the size of the territories, is of course also related to the size of the crisis. now we need to go one step further, what the europeans are asking us to do: transform this fund into a real fund for an ecologically and socially just transition to a sustainable development model. i believe that people, in this particular case workers, must be at the centre of a new development model that combines work and the environment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too will confine myself to a few specific points in the report we have drawn up as the committee on regional development. i would like to emphasize that, compared to the text proposed by the commission, the european parliament's text recognises better the clear role of the regions, both as beneficiaries and as managing authorities, in order to ensure greater effectiveness of the objectives set out in the proposal and to ensure proper coordination between the esf+ and the wider cohesion and regional policy. i also welcome the commission's intention to simplify the regulatory framework and i believe that synergies and coordination between the social fund and the other funds represent an important factor for improvement. finally, the commission proposal establishes a link between the european semester and the country-specific recommendations and esf investments. however, appropriate flexibility should be ensured at the level of managing authorities, both national and regional, in order to identify priorities and areas where investment is needed, with the need to better define the relationship between cohesion policy and the european semester, so that the latter acquires a greater social dimension.
i would like to thank mr fontagné for the excellent work he has done. the new european social fund has a key task: to transform the european pillar of social rights in a credible manner into concrete rules and resources useful for the daily lives of european citizens. for this reason, i am proud to have contributed with my amendments to strengthening the european commission's text, with concrete improvements on the theme of work, training and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the resources for the youth guarantee will be increased, as will those for new digital skills, and the percentages to be allocated to social inclusion programmes and the european fund for the improperly-tempered living. we have put people with disabilities at the centre of ensuring access to high quality services, employment, education and training. the new social fund will finally be able to co-finance income support measures, such as the inclusion income recently introduced in italy. we have extended the easi social innovation fund, allowing, as we have long been asked, direct access to european funds for local authorities and third sector organisations to finance integration programmes at local level. we have finally, after a great battle of many years, introduced a new programme, the youth guarantee which will enable the many young people from economically or socially disadvantaged backgrounds to have free access to essential services, such as health care, education, quality childcare, decent housing and adequate food. we will now begin negotiations with the member states, aware that our text is ambitious and worthy of the role of the european parliament as the first defender of the rights of individuals, a role which must be rediscovered in order to restore confidence in the european project which unites us.
i am also from a border region, as are many of the speakers, and interreg has been an excellent teaching tool for cooperation between different territories for all of us, and i believe that this is one of its outstanding european added values. the european union has been an instrument in these years, also and above all thanks to interreg, for promoting a project of growth and peace, and thousands of communities have collaborated on a wide range of projects, many of which have radically improved the lives of their citizens. we have also developed instruments such as the european group on territorial cooperation, which have enabled us to do better. today, as members of this parliament, we can be proud that even in a difficult time we have succeeded - and we hope that this will be confirmed - in securing over eur 11 billion for the projects of the next mandate, greatly increasing those proposed by the commission. a great result that we hope can be confirmed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly pleased with the work done. the original commission proposal contained several criticisms, which we have successfully addressed in the amendment and negotiation phases. first, we have given the right importance to crossborder maritime programmes, bringing them back under the first axis, crossborder cooperation. we have increased the total share of resources allocated to interreg by almost 11 billion and have raised both the eu co-financing threshold to 80% and the pre-financing rates, thus giving regional and local authorities the necessary liquidity to finance projects on the ground. i would ask all members, and particularly those who are interested in changing the absurd rules of the current economic governance, to vote in favour of the two amendments tabled by the movement for the elimination of the national co-financing deficit. with these very important votes on the new programming for 2021-2027, we will begin to see who is really going to change this europe and who is not.
in writing. the main objective of european territorial cooperation or interreg programmes is to promote cooperation between member states, their regions and neighbourhood partners, fostering dialogue between citizens and promoting the exchange of best practices and experiences. as rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on foreign affairs, i am pleased with the result achieved and the text voted in plenary which aims to maintain the current structure of interreg, preserving maritime crossborder cooperation, which is essential for a continent whose heart is the mediterranean sea.
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the british parliament voted by a large majority against the agreement which has been negotiated over the last two years with the european union. we note this vote, albeit not without regret, and we respect it because it is the expression of the will of the majority of the political forces present in the house of commons. however, this vote must be read correctly, it is not lost on us that these different forces voted against the agreement, but for diametrically opposed reasons, some worried about the "brexit backstop", others wishing for a closer relationship with the european union in the future, for example by remaining in the customs union. i think it is too early to assess the consequences of this vote, but we are certainly not yet in a 'no deal' scenario, and there is no majority in westminster for that either. we understand that there are two negative majorities in the british parliament, one against the agreement and the other against the possibility of leaving the union without an agreement, but there is no positive majority. we therefore hope that work will begin to build a majority in favour of a common solution as soon as possible and we await to hear how the british government intends to proceed. we are prepared to be ambitious about our future relations with the united kingdom, if the british government wants to be ambitious and if it decides to change the 'red lines' it has set itself. the european parliament has full confidence in the negotiator, mr barnier, who has conducted the negotiations with the united kingdom with restraint, intelligence and wisdom. if we cannot be more ambitious, we will be faced with a no-deal exit, which would have negative effects in every respect for everyone. we will certainly have to continue preparations to deal with a no-deal scenario, thinking, as i believe is right and this is the line of the european parliament, first of all to the citizens of the european union living in the united kingdom, and to the british citizens living on the continent. citizens who, more than anyone else, suffer from uncertainty and who would be the first victims of a disorderly exit. we must continue to monitor the irish problem closely, we must not leave ireland alone, we must ensure that the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland is a flexible border, but at the same time that the interests of health, agriculture and european agro-industry are safeguarded. of course, we must continue to maintain at this juncture the unity between the member states and the institutions which we have succeeded in building up during these long and difficult negotiations. unity which shows that the union exists in difficult situations and is capable of having a coherent political line.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu (2018/2970(rsp)).
mr barnier, i had anticipated the confidence of the european parliament. it's very clear at the end of your speech and i want to thank you.
and at the same time i want to thank our sitting group working hard close to mr barnier for a good solution to brexit. i want to thank first of all the leader of our sitting group, mr verhofstadt, but also the other members of the european parliament working hard on this issue. thank you very much.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, after two months of postponement we now know the position of the british parliament. an overwhelming majority voted against the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration. this is a historic defeat for the tory government and prime minister theresa may. we now know what the british parliament does not want but, 70 days before the exit day, we don’t yet know what they do want. the parliament has also made clear last week that they reject a no—deal scenario. this is welcome because no deal would be the worst outcome for everybody, but especially for the uk. we make clear today, we will not water down the withdrawal agreement and put into question the credibility of the backstop. protecting the peace process in northern ireland, avoiding a hard border and safeguarding the integrity of the single market are not up for negotiations. protecting the rights of eu and uk citizens has been our priority throughout the negotiations and we won’t accept any solution that threatens their rights. the autonomy of the eu legal order, the safeguarding of our social, labour, environmental and taxation standards, the honouring of financial commitments, the balance of rights and obligations, none of these can be put into question. and we will not allow any temptation for bilateral solutions, which will not be beneficial for any of the parts involved. the unity between the institutions and within this parliament in support of our chief negotiator is, and will remain, our greatest strength. we are united and we support you, michel. so where do we go from here? we need a positive majority from the uk side, and we need a clear direction and the capacity to deliver. yesterday’s vote clearly shows that, at the moment, we do not have that. the majority supporting this government may tonight stick together to stay in power, but they have shown they cannot agree and deliver on the most important question facing the country. either a positive and credible majority on brexit takes shape in the parliament, or you need to put the question back to the people. we have always been and will be open to a closer relationship if the uk wants to change its red lines. permanent customs union and the single market were always options on the table. it was the uk government’s red lines that made them impossible. a more ambitious future relationship would be positive for both sides, and we are ready to engage in it in a constructive way in full respect of our guidelines and red lines. we have always said very clearly that we respect the outcome of the referendum, but we consider brexit a historic mistake that would leave british people worse off. article 50 is revocable and if the uk parliament is not able to define a credible way forward, maybe it is the right time for the people to have their say with new elections or a new referendum. our group is clear that, if an extension of article 50 is needed to provide the necessary time for any of these options, then we would not object. but any extension must be for a clear reason and not just to waste more time. brexit is at a deadlock, the ball is now in the uk’s court. it must show responsible leadership and a clear vision, which are needed to open new perspectives and charter its way out of these difficult waters. we will remain constructive and reliable partners working for the interests of the european citizens.
mr smith, there is a blue card for you. do you want to answer it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of a no-deal brexit would be a serious blow to the good friday agreement, on which the people of northern ireland will have their say, but also for european citizens in the united kingdom and for british people living in the union, the horizon is bleak. the absence of a withdrawal agreement would deprive them of all rights related to freedom of movement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is difficult to say how we can get out of this massive defeat of the executive line without the people being questioned again. however, if no deal is confirmed, the commission and parliament will have to do everything possible to preserve at least the rights of british residents, recommending the alignment of national procedures with the best practices already envisaged in some member states and guaranteeing their free movement within the union. the situation is much worse for the more than 3 million eu citizens in britain. they will become victims, as unfortunately already are citizens of third countries, of the hostile environment promoted by the tories since 2012. theresa may's promises can be revoked at a stroke by the british parliament. only an international treaty safeguarding the rights enshrined in the withdrawal agreement would give them legal certainty. the so-called ringfencing of rights is possible if the union, in addition to unilaterally protecting british residents in europe, will make negotiations on future relations conditional on a preliminary bilateral agreement between the union and the united kingdom, which preserves and improves the chapter on rights contained in the withdrawal agreement. that is why it is important and crucial to give the united kingdom more time. finally, i would like to say a very special thank you to mr barnier.
the next item on the agenda is the debate with the president of the spanish government, mr pedro sánchez pérez-castejón, on the future of europe (2018/2748 ((rsp)). mr president, i would like to thank you for accepting the invitation from the european parliament to speak to us, the members of parliament, about spain's position on europe. today is a very important day politically, because we have the problem of brexit; but it is also important for us to talk about the most important dossiers of the union: immigration. the european parliament voted in favour of the reform of the dublin system. we ask the council, the member states, to vote in favour of our proposal, to conclude a very long debate on refugees, on the relocation of refugees. we also have the budget problem. parliament calls for more investment, from 1.1 to 1.3. we believe that money can be added without asking the member states, but with own resources. that is why the debate is open. it is a proposal for the reform of parliament's europe, a proposal on the european parliament's investments. it is important for us to defend the position of parliament as the heart of european democracy. there is an exhibition here in the european parliament by the efe agency on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the spanish constitution, a country which is also very important to the european parliament. i would like to thank and welcome the presence of the minister for foreign affairs of the kingdom of spain, mr borrell, who was president of this house. thank you for joining us. (applause) mr prime minister, president of the government of spain, thank you for being with us, for accepting the invitation. you have the floor now.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, mr prime minister, thank you very much for being here with us today. this is the fifteenth debate on the future of the european union that we have had here in the european parliament. for the 15th time we must reiterate that the union is undoubtedly going through a very difficult time and for the 15th time we must ask ourselves why. our answer is always the same: wrong policies lead to harm and injustice. i will give only two examples. austerity policies have caused enormous damage to our society. president juncker admitted yesterday in the house that these austerity policies have done some damage. they say "better late than never". but not here, we've spent the maximum time here. we have created economies which have dismantled the system of protecting workers and the most vulnerable categories, leaving unmet the needs of those in need. to speak of social justice, respect for human dignity, the tragedy of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion experienced by millions of european citizens is not to be populist, but to take note of reality and to respond immediately. juncker, commissioners, enjoy these last months of the commission, because the next elections will bring a wind of change not only to this house but to the whole commission. the second example of a wrong policy i would like to mention concerns immigration policies. here the failure of the union - a union in name and not in fact - is evident. the lack of a common position on the fair sharing of responsibilities and solidarity in asylum and migration policies among all member states has undermined the reform of the common european asylum system. these two principles are laid down in article 80 of the treaty, but they have already given way to national selfishness. this means that the greatest burdens in managing migration flows fall mainly on the border states and on a few (incomprehensible words) collaborators. the failure of the european union to implement these policies has a very large impact on fundamental rights and also in terms of social and economic costs, estimated at around €49 million annually, according to a recent study. it is not by chance that i have cited these two examples, mr prime minister: spain and italy are two mediterranean countries with similar interests, such as the management of migration flows and the economy. you and i are the expression of two different political forces. however, our countries should work together to fight austerity and find solutions to the migration crisis. the whole of the european union should be giving signs of life on this issue, and we, ladies and gentlemen, should be giving other signs to the citizens. the citizens are asking for facts and concrete answers. for example, we could start by ending waste. we are going to start a great fight against the waste of the union, and we are going to do it from here, from this parliament, from this useless and unjustifiable triple seat. the maintenance of strasbourg costs citizens up to 1 000 million euros for each parliamentary term, i.e. 200 million euros each year to keep it open for 48 days a year. what face and what spirit can we put on these enormous figures before our citizens? it's not possible. ladies and gentlemen, asking for the cancellation of this waste is not an attack on democracy, and democracy is not a privilege nor is it a building. ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, on the one hand there are the decimals, austerity, waste, privileges; on the other hand there are the citizens and the demand for change. people must be put at the centre of european union policies and decisions. respect for the rights and well-being of all citizens must be given priority and not sacrificed in the name of certain economic and financial interests which benefit a few people.
mr bové, i remind you that the hondt system must be respected. if you speak for two minutes, a member of your group will lose his speaking time. i just want to inform you. that's the rule, you have to respect it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good morning mr president, and welcome to the european parliament. you have spoken a lot about women, women's rights and violence against women. i hope, however, that next time it will be able to present itself with a somewhat female staff, since today there are only men present, because from words to deeds i think that is also a major plus, so this is a good thing. since italy and spain have always had a good relationship, also with regard to immigration, i think you can be the spokesman for the dublin reform at the level of the mediterranean countries, because when it is said that europe has left us alone, and i say this as an italian, there is a name and a surname called the european council, there is a name and a surname called the member states. the european parliament voted in favour of the dublin reform, in favour of compulsory returns, but we need you and the other prime ministers to agree. on the subject of violence against women, we in the epp are in favour of a balance sheet and also a link between family and work and we think that women are ennobled even more by working and not staying at home or simply being housewives out of obligation and not by choice.
i would remind you that i am one of the signatories of the european commission's proposal to give more seats to women on boards. i was the second signatory at the time. the word is "bildt". he sees women talking.
thank you very much, mr president of the spanish government, thank you for answering the questions of the members. i think this debate has been a very interesting debate. there has been a lot of talk about spain, but also a lot about europe and the politics in venezuela. it's a very important thing for us. we defend the rights of venezuelan citizens. you can't starve in that country, where there is no democracy and no freedom. thank you, everybody. the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am only stealing a minute of the time of this house, from the votes, because several sources in the press confirm that a very harsh repression against the homosexual population has resumed in chechnya: dozens of arrests, many tortures and three deaths have been identified, due to a regime that tends to repress these people just because they are homosexuals. this europe cannot be just economics and finance. in relations with russia - i thank the high representative mogherini for reminding minister lavrov of this - but in relations with russia, there cannot be only economic issues. we are the champions of the world of human rights, of civil rights, we have to prove it. we must strongly urge the russian federation to open an inquiry into what is happening in chechnya, because it is not acceptable that people are killed by a regime because they are homosexuals.
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
of course, we welcome the moroccan delegation, thank you for your presence.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal for the european social fund plus for the period 2021-2027. a fund that will continue to promote employment and social inclusion, but which also aims to make progress in strengthening the european social dimension. support for young people must remain the main objective. the youth unemployment rate is too high, especially in some areas. the european social fund plus should implement personalised measures, in line with national youth guarantee schemes, paying particular attention to inactive young people, who are furthest from the labour market. the european social fund plus should be used to improve the functioning of labour markets by supporting the modernisation of public employment services and improving counselling and guidance services for workers. finally, given that the social disparities in europe are a growing concern, it is necessary that the european social fund plus allocate a large part of its budget to measures to combat poverty and to promote social inclusion.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the extremely disappointing vote on the two amendments we tabled on the exclusion of national cofinancing from the deficit calculation, the consolidated text as voted on in the committee on regional development is satisfactory, so i voted in favour. the commission proposal for a new regulation, while making an appreciable effort to simplify the mixed architecture of territorial cooperation programmes, contained several criticisms which we have successfully addressed, both at the amendment and negotiation stages, the result of which is reflected in the consolidated text as voted in the committee on regional development. first of all, the report approved lists the maritime crossborder programmes under the first axis. the change in architecture proposed by the commission, which provided for maritime cooperation programmes only in the second, transnational component, was not only not functional to the needs of the regions, but was not supported by sufficient elements either, to introduce a radical change and thus compromise those maritime cooperation programmes, so important and strategic for italy and other countries. the report provides for a total of 11 billion in resources, 10 billion of which will be allocated to the first four components and about 1 billion to the new instrument for interregional investment in innovation. finally, the eu co-financing threshold was raised to 80%, raising pre-financing rates and the 2014-2020 programming levels and thus giving regional and local authorities the necessary liquidity to start projects on the ground. the call that all interreg components should contribute to the sustainable development goals, that small projects and people-to-people projects should be maintained and strengthened, and that the new pilot component number 5 should also focus on creating links between the least developed and the most developed regions, increasing the capacity to create those regional innovation ecosystems that are able to bridge the gap between regions, both within the states and in a transnational perspective, is also welcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to have been a substitute member of the pest committee in recent months, pleased with the contribution we made as the gue/ngl group to the drafting of this report and also satisfied with today's vote, which is undoubtedly a step forward in the direction of transparency after the worrying incident, as i also stressed in the efsa glyphosate report. we would have liked a report that was even more in line with the stop glyphosate campaign, but i think that today, in fact, we have taken a step forward. i remind you that glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide, which has the same effect on all plants, even when used in different dosages, which does not disperse and does not decay easily. i would also like to mention a matter which concerns my own region, puglia, because in salento a large quantity of glyphosate has been found in the soil, also as a result of the martina decree, which also obliges salento to use pesticides, preferring the choice of chemical ones. we still have a long way to go, but today we have certainly taken a step forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am pleased with the outcome of the vote on this important report on the authorisation procedures for pesticides, so that europe finally responds to the demands of millions of european citizens who are calling for toxic and dangerous products, not only for health but also for the environment and biodiversity, to be finally banned and, above all, for public, independent and, above all, transparent scientific assessments to be made possible. that is the objective, the way forward, to ensure that scandals such as the monsanto papers and the authorization of glyphosate do not happen again. this europe must put the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment and our territories at the centre.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the democratic and solidarity-based european project cannot develop unless it is based on knowledge and awareness of europe's common history. a story that takes its inspiration from the "never again" of totalitarianism, nazism and communism, as well as the holocaust, and that has focused on the dignity of the human person, freedom and solidarity. in the face of the new risks of democratic change, nationalism and racism, but also in the face of revisionism and negationism, it is necessary that, in the construction of a european educational area, greater account be taken of the need, in historical research and also in shared methodology, for the teaching of common history, through the promotion of joint studies, critical comparisons, also to really reunify europe. i think that a new methodology should also be developed for european civic education and that we can naturally arrive, in the freedom of the different systems, at the need for lessons on a shared core of european history, which highlights the common values that have been the basis of the integration process. but we know that it is not enough to be intelligent or to have a memory to be risk-free. we know that if there is no education in values, no practice of european citizenship, no increase in critical thinking, it will be very difficult for culture to be accompanied by a conscience, and we must know that it is not enough to cultivate memory alone, but a democratic conscience which is born of that 'never again' which we pronounced at the beginning of the experience of the european project. there are interesting examples, but also negative examples in europe, in the school systems. for example, there are some countries which have taken great pains to include the story of the holocaust in their history books, and others, such as, i am sorry, the czech republic, which has recently decided not to remember jan palach, or hungary, which no longer wants to remember a heroic imre nagy. these revisionists are not doing any good for the creation of a common european conscience, whereas there are some very positive experiences which i will not mention, and which ... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not have time to respond to the kind of clumsy revisionism which i have heard in some speeches. on the other hand, the european union's own holiday is celebrated on 9 may, forgetting that it is also the day of the victory of the red army over nazism and i say this with a firm rejection of any authoritarian idea of socialism or communism. i would just like to say that i am proud to have contributed to the adoption in this house of a resolution banning all neo-fascist organisations, to have contributed to the arrest of more than 25 neo-fascists in bari through a complaint. i would like to say that today, however, we must go back, as hannah arendt teaches us to do, to the origins of totalitarianism, to that process of dehumanization that we are also reviewing in italy and in europe. when 49 people are left at sea, without being considered persons, when the video of the arrest of one person is published, as in the case of cesare battisti, we are faced with that dehumanization ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with the situation of fundamental rights every year, we regularly come across problems relating to respect for those values, such as human dignity, equality before the law, freedom and the prohibition of any discrimination, which should be the basis of any democratic society based on the rule of law. this report also highlights, to name a few of the main issues it deals with, phenomena which are well established in several member states. we are talking about racism, xenophobia, serious and widespread violence against women, migrants and minorities, attacks on the rule of law and on freedom of expression and the media. we are talking about the scourge of corruption, which has always threatened the equal enjoyment of rights among citizens and the resources allocated to public services. i have already strongly supported the need to set up a european monitoring mechanism to prevent and combat violations of the fundamental rights of the european union. i would welcome greater attention to the problem of increasing poverty and material deprivation, which would require the promotion and implementation of national minimum income schemes to ensure that all low-income people have decent living conditions, as well as improving the level of social inclusion and the labour market, to promote access to goods and services and a better quality of life. the union's economic and financial policy should give priority to the protection of fundamental rights over the interests of the market and austerity policies at the expense of citizens. the failure of this approach has been evident and has produced discomfort and an unheeded call for greater listening and participation by the people, who should be placed at the centre of the policies and decisions of the european union, on what concerns their well-being, respect for their personal, civil, political, economic and social rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report touches on human rights and does so in the wrong way. it does so, above all, when it talks about immigration, by introducing two principles which foment and create the conditions for illegality, it does so when it says that non-refoulements are a solution, that is, that we should welcome all those who are trying to come to europe, and it does so in an open way when it says that ngos must be supported and that they do a worthwhile job. this is in contrast to the harsh reality of what is happening in the mediterranean, which in recent years has created a real problem of epochal importance, particularly for italy, but also for the rest of europe. a europe which, despite its loud voice and the banner of human rights, has forgotten itself, has forgotten africa and north africa. all the talk, all the announcements, about this big multi-billion dollar plan for north africa, have turned out to be empty, useless because not a single euro has been invested. i think that this report lacks reality and, above all, pragmatism. that is why i shall vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr terricabras and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work. the year 2017 was a year in which too many critical issues emerged, in respect of fundamental rights, including gender equality, the rights of minors and respect for the rule of law. i therefore think it is important that the report reaffirms the principle that children should never be detained because of their migrant status and calls on the member states to provide reception and inclusion measures which take account of their specific vulnerability. the recommendations on combating gender-based violence and the call on the member states to fully ratify and implement the istanbul convention are also significant. it is also important to call for the independence of the judiciary in the member states to be respected, which, as the court of justice has also stressed, is an essential element of the rule of law and an indispensable condition for maintaining mutual trust in the area of freedom, security and justice.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i apologize for having understood that the debate was to begin at 6 p.m., so i apologize to you, to my colleagues and, above all, to the commissioner. i would like to thank the colleagues who have worked with me on this report because, as has been said, it is an important and very sensitive and useful subject, also for the survival of our european enterprises. the first question i asked myself and we asked ourselves together is: how do you measure the health of a business? certainly when there is a good balance between an economic aspect and a financial and capital aspect and when a company is able to invest and to be able to expand, create employment and also generate benefits in that economy which is both national and international. however, many european enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the fabric of industry at european level, are facing many obstacles in dealing with the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in europe, six out of ten companies are paid late, in relation to what is stipulated in the contract. we have considered a few cases: 62% of cases were due to financial difficulties affecting their debtors, 48% to intentional delays in payments, 45% to administrative inefficiencies and 19% to disputes. but the real problem is often compounded by the passive acceptance of longer payment terms, because there is a dominant position of some companies over others. i think that if everything were done correctly in payments, we could really avoid cases that we have seen in the news in italy and elsewhere, where entrepreneurs take their own lives, where entrepreneurs are so desperate that they go bankrupt, but for uncollected loans, not for unpaid debts, and this also leads to job losses and relocations. the commissioner mentioned the 2011 directive, which did not achieve the objective we set for ourselves in all member states. we thought that this proposal should introduce a greater effort to pay within 30 days, as was also agreed, and greater transparency regarding late payment behaviour. we must help and promote businesses and entrepreneurs and also the public administration which pays regularly, with a so-called white list, promote those who are good and capable, provide entrepreneurs with adequate training in credit and invoice management and, considering that thousands of start-ups and smes fail every year because of the public administration's late payment, it is necessary to provide compulsory and adequate forms of compensation at the tax level, including compensation and other forms of support, such as factoring which unfortunately is not yet active in my country. we also need to promote best practices such as the spanish one, which we have also introduced in the document and in the project, precisely because when a local authority is unable to pay, the state intervenes. i think that these are all excellent solutions, also in relation to the question of public procurement. it is good to exclude defaulting contractors from future contracts, if subcontractors are not paid on time by the main contractor, because this causes the best practice to say in the end whoever is wrong pays, but to all effects and also to the consequences. member states are invited to set up mediation services at national level. i think if everyone paid correctly, we would save 158 million euros in financial costs. we can do this, we must do this, and thank you all, because we have achieved a great result. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i will elaborate on the reason why i am not present, but there is no justification that has been given to me for the absence, i think it is a great lack of respect towards our entrepreneurs and european citizens their absence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, it must be acknowledged that the 2011 late payments directive has certainly had a positive effect in recent years, at least in reducing the average length of settlement times for companies. however, we also know that 95% of european smes still do not receive their performance reimbursement on time and sometimes this delay leads to bankruptcy for many companies. so i think that this report which parliament will adopt tomorrow is intended to propose improvements to eradicate this scourge. i would like to stress three points in particular: the first is to introduce more rapid procedures for repayment and recovery of debts owed by companies to public authorities. the second: promote the establishment of free and accessible mediation services to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which often lack the financial means to deal with lengthy litigation. the third point: provide for the mandatory publication of information on public and private bodies that pay on time. i believe, madam president, that the certainty of payment times is a very important challenge we have and it may even seem difficult, given the not very bright results of these years. however, the competitiveness of our european system of european companies depends on this and i think it is right to ensure an environment in which payments are made on time and that is an environment in which they can do their business well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the 2011 directive on late payment in commercial transactions, european companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, continue to incur excessive delays in the recovery of claims, and not only against public administrations. in italy, but not only in my country, the economic fabric is mainly made up of small and mediumsized enterprises which tend to accept longer payment terms from larger companies, for fear of damaging trade relations. more effective measures to discourage what in fact becomes unfair practices should therefore be developed, taking into account the specificities of each production sector, on the model of the unfair practices in the food chain directive, aimed at protecting small producers in a sector characterised by strong imbalances in the power to contract. it is essential that the commission and the member states develop awareness campaigns on the respect of payment deadlines and on legal remedies against delays, including for claims against public administration.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank all the members who have spoken, because it has been a very constructive dialogue, but also a constructive work for businesses and for citizens. i'll just give you two quick thoughts: the first, when a state is not required to comply with the late payment directive, is infringed. attention that this method of infringement leads to penalties and therefore to an additional payment, which then affects the citizens, and this is a problem, because you pay twice, that is, the state does not pay you and you also have to pay the infringement. so we have to find another way. the other aspect that president tajani mentioned before you was that italy, for example, was able to spend 3% to pay off the public administration's debts. of course, this should not be the rule, but as president juncker rightly pointed out yesterday, austerity does not produce results and there is therefore no excuse, in this case for italy, for not paying the debts of the public administration to the companies. i think this could be a method for other countries as well. i thank you and we look forward to the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we ask the citizens of europe to respect the principles and values enshrined in the treaty on european union when the member states themselves are the first to fail to fulfil their obligations? it is also through the example of a shared culture of the rule of law by the institutions that citizens' trust in the union can be strengthened and that the effective implementation of its policies must be ensured. that is why those generalised deficiencies concerning the rule of law in the member states which affect the sound financial management of the union must be strongly countered, in order to ensure not only the financial interest of the union, including the effective collection of revenue, but also public confidence in the union and its institutions. finally, i do not understand the reasons behind the suppressive amendments to the commission's proposal. we must instead join forces to ensure that the rights and values which are the essential precondition for the legitimacy of the european project are fully respected and promoted, and to revive a europe which protects its citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, at a time when european societies are confronted with extremism, radicalism and divisions, it is more important than ever to promote, strengthen and defend justice, rights and eu values. for this reason, the commission has proposed a new justice, rights and values fund, whose overarching aim is to sustain open, democratic and inclusive societies. the rights and values programme is part of the new fund, together with the justice programme. with the adoption of the report and the mandate for the future negotiations, parliament shows once again its strong support for the promotion of rights and values and its commitment to advance the negotiations. i welcome this ambition and support it. the new programme will continue funding key activities, such as the promotion of gender equality, anti—discrimination, the rights of the child, fighting violence against women, anti-racism and other values and priorities. it will continue the successful activities of the europe for citizens programme, in particular town twinning, remembrance activities and civil society projects, allowing citizens a direct engagement with europe. the new programme should also encourage and facilitate active participation in the construction of a more democratic union, as well as awareness of rights and values. the commission shares the views expressed by parliament on the important role of civil society organisations in promoting and defending rights and values, and this role is recognised at the highest possible level in the general objective. non-governmental organisations will continue to have a key role in the implementation of the future programme. at the same time, the rights and values programme shall also continue to fund a broad range of beneficiaries besides the civil society organisations, for instance, equality bodies, expert networks, public administrations, local and regional authorities, museums, academic stakeholders and so on. an equilibrium is needed to respect the variety of the programme and the policies it serves. the rights and values programme is also interlinked to the justice programme and, more generally, to the rule of law mechanism. the commission has carefully drafted them in such a way as to clearly define their scope, to develop synergies and to avoid duplications. this is a key point of our future discussion. i do of course agree that there should be more money. there is never enough money. as you know, the negotiations on the budget had to cope with the fact that there is less money for more priorities. this is the reality. but, at the same time, i want to say that the programmes which i have just mentioned and whose main goals i have described can be combined with the money which should be put into the european social fund, where there is money, and there will be money, for social integration, very probably also involving the new horizon programme, where there will be money for research and data collection related to the values and goals which we have in mind in this discussion. so i believe that, even with less money, we can do more work.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, investing in the rights and values of the european union, in citizens and in equality, means investing in cohesion and social justice, means promoting the concept of citizenship, democratic engagement and civic participation, means having another tool to carry forward our battles against racism, xenophobia, incitement to hatred, violence against women, extremism, for a pluralist and inclusive europe. more than ever, we need to prevent and combat recurrent incidents of hatred and discrimination, which are increasingly fuelled by a violent political climate, and to protect the victims, especially the most vulnerable. we all know that open, democratic and inclusive societies do not finance themselves. for this reason, we propose a substantial increase in the financial allocation of the programme, to enable civil society organisations to support those activities which contribute to the creation of democratic societies based on the rights of all citizens. we invest in the future of young people, we give them the tools to understand tolerance and diversity, values which are at the heart of the common european project.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rights and values programme has important aims and high-profile objectives, such as promoting respect for human dignity, equality, the environment and the rule of law. the draft, although noble in its idea, has brought with it all the ambiguities that are characteristic of the union we represent here, contradictions that constantly emerge and that in recent months have risen, as never before, to the forefront of international news. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not a matter of the member states being able to do so. we find that the equality and rights programme, like so many others, is not so important, otherwise this union would have had the urgency to manage it itself. the ngos that would be the first to receive financial support have shown their arrogance in recent months. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and we are pleased that the european union has taken the initiative to promote the development of the union's external relations. these legal entities have their own interests which do not always correspond to those of the union and to support them economically involves a number of moral risks which this parliament can no longer afford.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must thank the rapporteurs for this work, which they have done together in two committees, or rather three committees, because i believe that in the present european context this programme, which incorporates three current programmes, has a precise meaning and we wanted very much in the committee on culture - and i thank my colleague guillaume for this - that the dimension of the construction of citizenship should not be lost, by including this title alongside rights, values and equality. because we believe that this visibility of the specific programme, with dedicated resources, specific actions, well known, among others, by students, associations, municipalities, twinning and the many projects of practiced european citizenship, must find a precise identification in the change of the new programme which is a merging programme. it is important that what was the europe of the citizens, and which will now find a place in the new programme, remains linked to two areas of action, that of memory to be shared and we have also spoken about this before, the sharing also of a historical approach, with a critical eye, but with a capacity to create also this basis of common history and the understanding by the citizens of the reasons for european integration, values and history. this is against racism, hatred and all the different forms of nationalism and extremism that are sweeping across europe. that is why we want the 'active citizenship' strand to be visible again, and that there be the additional resources we have asked for and hope that the whole of parliament will defend them and build citizenship skills, also through formal, non-formal and informal education. but i think that an opportunity was also seized, and i conclude by saying that we also wanted to include the issue of intercultural and interreligious dialogue, because this dimension also builds a common sense and a perspective of european fraternity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the nuclear decommissioning assistance programme aims to support lithuania in the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant at ignalina. the assistance shall specifically address all radio safety issues related to decommissioning, which are of fundamental importance for nuclear safety in the region. the programme is scheduled to be completed by 2038 and large sums are still needed to address the remaining radiation safety problems associated with the decommissioning of the plant. the commission is also proposing to increase the financial allocation of the programme by a total of 780 million compared to the 552 million set by the commission for the period 2021-2027. the union's financial support to this process will help to ensure effective and safe decommissioning, while enhancing the union's credibility in promoting nuclear safety. the funding and know-how acquired by lithuania and all parties involved could also prove useful and helpful in developing skills for future decommissioning.
member of the commission. – mr president, this report is a welcome reaction to the commission’s white paper on the future of europe and to our shared discussion ahead of the sibiu summit. as mr durand noted, there are different views as to what differentiated integration means and whether it is a good thing or not. whereas, in some member states, it is perceived as a positive step towards more integration, other member states consider it divisive. the commission in its white paper on the future of the eu presented, as you know, five possible scenarios for discussion. scenario three was an option for some to go further, creating a positive drive towards deeper integration whilst remaining open and inclusive to all who may wish to join. we have seen over the years how this dynamic can help address emerging challenges and drive integration. the euro, now in its 20th year, the emu and schengen are examples, and over the years we have seen that more and more member states have been inspired and have wanted to join such cooperation. i hope and trust that the same will be the case for the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) since europeans, now more than ever, need to stand strong in the face of a changed international order. there are also examples in the justice area, like the creation of the european public prosecutor’s office, where in 2017, 20 member states out of 25 member states – because three had opted out – agreed to engage in enhanced cooperation to establish this key factor to fight crimes against the eu budget. since then, two more member states have joined and i am sure that others will eventually follow. but differentiated integration is only ever the second best. the normal community method and standard legislative procedure are still the best way to guarantee the integrity and wellbeing of the union as a whole. it must also remain open to all who wish to join. that is also why the commission started, last year, and is now pursuing a debate about more efficient and democratic decision-making in specific policy areas by making use of the passerelle clauses foreseen by the existing eu treaties to allow the use of qualified majority voting in areas such as eu foreign policy, eu tax policy or environment. this will avoid blockages and the need for recourse to enhanced cooperation where unanimity is not forthcoming in these areas and where eu action is close to citizens’ wishes. the commission looks forward to your support in this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency in the european legislative process is an essential component of building confidence in the european project. the citizens must be able to exercise fully their right to information on the development of european legislation and must be able to recognise the positions of their representatives, elected directly in this parliament or indirectly through their governments, in the council. brussels is not, and should not be, portrayed by its detractors as a black box, where opaque mediation of interests is required. this narrative is undoubtedly false, but our commitment as legislators to transparency must be maximum. parliament and the commission, as acknowledged by the european ombudsman himself, have made important progress in recent years in ensuring the utmost transparency in their preparatory work. it is therefore important that the council, as co-legislator, also endeavours to achieve the highest standards of transparency in its organisation and practices, in line with the recommendations of the european ombudsman, in particular by developing clear and well-defined criteria for the classification of so-called 'limite' documents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this europe is often, all too often, perceived as being far away from the european citizens, and when we talk to people, it is clear that they do not at all understand who decides what, parliament, the commission, the council. and it is true, as my colleagues have said, that parliament works with a good degree of transparency, but how can we blame the european citizens? because one of the three institutions, the council, has always worked behind closed doors, has worked behind closed doors and behaves as if it were playing a game of poker, with cards drawn. the council therefore works in this way and we have no idea what the position of the players, no pardon, the member states, is. it is a pity that at this table, at that table, very important games are being played for the future of the citizens of europe itself. this is contrary to the principles of publicity and transparency and to the right of citizens to be fully informed of the decisions taken by their representatives. all this can only empty the very idea of europe. i hope and i hope most sincerely that this europe has not been irreversibly disfigured.
author. – mr president, it seems like there are no more boundaries for president aliyev in his war against his opponents. the message of the despot is clear: no one must dare to publicly highlight the extensive corruption and abuses by azerbaijan’s rulers and officials. the case of mehman huseynov is emblematic. the journalist and blogger has been repeatedly harassed by the police for years, tortured and jailed on fabricated charges. in addition, the new charges are clearly politically motivated. they are tailored to further silence a prominent human rights voice. as a matter of fact, instead of investigating the alleged mistreatment suffered by mr huseynov, he was accused of defamation of the same officials that tormented him. after all, what would you expect from a country that ranks 163rd out of 180 countries on the world press freedom index? what do you expect from a country where independent journalists and bloggers are thrown in prison if they do not bend to harassment bribes, beatings and blackmail? the european union is now negotiating a new agreement with azerbaijan which should be based on the rule of law, human rights, good governance and democratic reforms. i believe this principle should not remain only on paper. the future agreement of parliament to such an act should not be given unless the situation changes radically. azerbaijan’s crackdown on dissidents must end immediately and the unconditional release of political prisoners must be a priority in eu—azerbaijan relations. this is why i call on the commission to use all its influence and pressure to ensure the azerbaijani authorities drop the charges and release mr huseynov unconditionally, along with the ten other journalists jailed. if we fail on that, we will be giving up once again on our principles and values.
authors mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again focusing our attention on sudan, one of the largest countries in africa. the recent news from sudan has been confirmed as bad. while much of the world was busy with new year celebrations, sudanese people poured into the streets and squares, protesting the decline in purchasing power. the protest was triggered by the increase in the price of gasoline, and then the price of bread, which has tripled by decree. the country is in the throes of protests, which are jeopardizing the very fragile social balance that has been achieved and unfortunately confirm the precariousness of the lives of the citizens. the economic situation is not favourable to the country, despite its many resources. sudan is moving forward, alternating periods of relative calm with other periods of particular hardship for the citizens, who are affected by hunger and the harmful effects of the government, which often degenerate into social conflicts with a strong repressive value by the forces of law and order. the price of the unrest is not only paid by the protesting sudanese citizens, but also by the opposition. sudan thus confirms the sad reality of the political repression of freedom of expression, the source of legitimate grievances of exasperated citizens. the khartoum government must always be reminded that it is its duty to give priority and speed to the development of its own country. only by developing economic activities in the country and establishing a healthy political climate can the protest movements be quelled. in this connection, it is important to stress the role of the political dialogue which we would like to see practised, especially after the formation of the new coalition of opposition parties. the sakharov prize laureate, salih mahmoud osman, and all the free thinkers, professors at the university of khartoum, journalists and human rights defenders must therefore be released for a more democratic sudan.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the people want the regime to fall. this is the protest song that is being heard in the streets of khartoum, amid the roar of gunfire and the metallic noise of tear gas. thousands of sudanese citizens took to the streets on december 19 to demand real change for their country, starting with the resignation of their president. from then on, it was just chaos. not just police forces, but even intelligence services and paramilitary teams, brutally unleashed against protesters and ordinary citizens. the balance is tragic: 45 dead, 816 people arrested in just three weeks. all this to defend one man, a bloodthirsty dictator in power for over 30 years, omar al-bashir. but there's more, this man, who has a warrant on his head for genocide and crimes against humanity in darfur, is trying to amend the constitution to remove any remaining limit on his mandate ahead of the upcoming 2020 elections. we call on the sudanese government to unconditionally release all the protesters, salih osman, 2007 sakharov prize winner, and the 23 young university students of darfur origin, arrested on 23 december. we call on the high representative and the whole union to use all forms of economic, commercial and political pressure to bring about the necessary pressure to stop this despicable massacre.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the key to giving a new meaning to this europe is written in the report we voted on today: it's called transparency. the council can no longer afford to work behind closed doors and to keep documents secret and deny citizens access to them. the court of justice of the european union reiterated in its 2018 de capitani judgment that the principles of publicity and transparency must be ensured at all stages of the union's legislative procedures, as they are inherent in them. if there is any real hope for this europe to become the common home of all european citizens, with the protection of rights and the collective interest, social justice and the fight against inequalities, the development of a resilient society in harmony with the planet, as its foundations, then that hope is to finally make this europe a glass building, clear and transparent.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 17 january 2019.
president knobloch, i have to say that i am very pleased. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating the day of remembrance and commemorating the victims of the holocaust. the european union has also made a significant contribution to the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has also made a significant contribution to the fight against racism and xenophobia. for the first time, the day of remembrance will take place in the european parliament's chamber during the plenary session. with this gesture, we are sending a strong signal today, more than ever: we do not forget; we don't want to forget. we renew our commitment to keep the memory alive and to fight without ceasing all forms of hatred, discrimination and anti-semitism. perpetuating the memory of the unprecedented crimes of the holocaust is not just an act of commemoration: it's an essential step in the process of personal and collective healing. the holocaust must remain a perpetual warning. we must no longer tolerate acts of violence and racial hatred. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, 50% of european citizens believe that anti-semitism is a problem in their own country. this is a demonstration that the virus of anti-semitism has not yet been eradicated. we must respond firmly to any resurgence of hatred. our values and our history are stronger than intolerance and violence. europe has demonstrated this more than once. the european parliament has always stood by those who suffer from acts of hatred and discrimination. in 2016, we organized a high-level conference on the future of jewish communities in europe. in 2017, we adopted our first resolution against anti-semitism. together we must do more to uphold the principles of the un resolution that established the day of remembrance: the european union is committed to promoting educational programmes, rejecting any denial of the holocaust and condemning without reservation any manifestation of intolerance on ethnic or religious grounds. our message today is very clear: there is no place for hatred and anti-semitism in the european union. we will not allow the tragic mistakes of the past to be repeated: "never again". we will hear from dr. charlotte knobloch, president of the jewish community of munich and upper bavaria. charlotte knobloch was only three years old when she was forbidden to play with the other children in her neighborhood. she was jewish, and that was her only fault. she miraculously survived the holocaust authorities thanks to a christian woman who worked for her family. charlotte knobloch has dedicated her life to a courageous fight against hatred and anti-semitism. you have our gratitude. i invite you, madam president, to come to the floor and speak before the plenary of the european parliament.
former president of the central council of jews in germany. mr president, i thank you for your introductory, reassuring and excellent words. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union. i would like to thank you very much, mr president, for the invitation which i have gladly accepted. i am very pleased to be able to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. for those of you who regularly come and go in this building, let me tell you, as a guest, it's an uplifting feeling to be here. this is not a parliament like any other. i am sure that each of you was elected to this house as a representative of your country and your party. you are all here to make policy in the democratic contest and to shape a good future for the citizens of europe. but that's not all. behind this podium and above the bureau you will see not just one national flag, as in the national parliaments, but 28 flags. in the middle of it you frame the blue and yellow flag which represents the idea of european unity - an idea to which you are committed as members of this parliament. this semicircle not only creates laws, it creates commonality. it is a symbol of the values on which europe is still built and on which european unity is based: freedom, democracy, human rights, openness, tolerance and the will to live together in peace. the way in which these ideals are shaping everyday life in europe today was hardly imaginable to many of us - myself included - for many years. i have lived in my youth under the oppressive and all-pervasive rule of a barbarism that no longer wanted to know anything human and that destroyed and murdered without restraint. i lost almost everything: many of my loved ones, my home, my original trust in the world and in people. more than once, it was luck or chance that saved my life. for years, i lived in a hiding place under a false name and a false identity. if it had been me, it would have been my death sentence. i can stand here today because among all the murderers, the accomplice, the indifferent, there were also people who risked their lives to preserve their humanity. i can stand here today because the light of humanity has never been extinguished, even in the darkest time of human history. but even with that background, one thing was clear to me: at the first opportunity, my godly husband and i would leave germany and europe. this continent seemed to us to be corrupt at the time. we tried to build a new life everywhere, but not here. the birth of our children meant that we had to postpone our plans to emigrate again and again. these children grew up in a country where insecurity and discomfort were the dominant feelings for them and for the entire jewish community. in the first decades after the war, insecurity prevailed with no limited contact with the non-jewish environment. you never knew for sure who might have jewish blood on their hands. the unease about living in this situation in the "land of the murderers" - as our country was called then - was always felt. we found it impossible to stay in germany permanently in this situation. the fact that i stand before you today is proof that, fortunately, over the decades, many things have become possible that were previously unimaginable. who would have thought that the post-war democracies would prove so robust? who would have thought that centuries-old hostilities in europe could be overcome in just a few years? and who would have thought that after the unimaginable atrocities of the holocaust, jewish life in europe, even in germany, would be able to take off again? all of this seems to be taken for granted today. no, ladies and gentlemen, that's not it. and the achievements are not always as stable as they may seem at first glance. unfortunately, that is becoming clearer these days. the post-war order of freedom and democracy in europe is more than ever at risk. i am not talking about external threats to our cohesion. the european idea would have been perfectly matched by you alone. what worries me far more are the attacks from within. europe can only be 'united in diversity' in the future if it is aware of its values and defends them. (applause from the centre) but this future is bound up with the knowledge of the past. on 27 january, the international day of remembrance for the victims of the holocaust, we remembered the six million jews murdered by nazi germany between 1933 and 1945. the liberation of the auschwitz concentration camp, on whose anniversary the memorial was dedicated, has been commemorated for the 74th time this year. few survivors can give firsthand accounts of the horrors they experienced. the signal given by the leading candidates of the christian and social democrats for the forthcoming european elections, manfred weber and frans timmermans, who travelled to the auschwitz memorial together after their nomination, is all the more important. but the sad fact remains that more and more voices of memory are becoming silent. the "time without witnesses" is coming. this fact may lead some to conclude that the holocaust and the commemoration of its victims are unnecessary today. nothing could be more wrong. the european parliament has been a major influence in the debate on the future of europe. what they propagate is a present without a past as a stepping stone to a future without memory. it is not surprising that anti-semitism is also on the rise with such a history of oblivion. we in the jewish community are already experiencing the consequences of this development. in germany and many other eu countries, jewish life in public is only possible under police protection, and the jewish population's sense of security has been declining for years. it is true that the centers of jewish life have returned to the cities everywhere; synagogues and community buildings were rebuilt as a sign of the new self-evidence of community. these buildings rest on a foundation of trust. i can tell you from my own experience how long it took me to feel at home in my home and birthplace munich after 1945. i did not unpack the proverbial suitcases until the opening of our new synagogue in november 2006. today, however, i find myself thinking again and again that i may have been too hasty in my words. confidence among the jewish people is waning in many places. they had trusted that they would never be let down in our country again. they suffer more from hostility, verbal or physical, but even more from indifference, lack of understanding, lack of empathy. for wherever we look, jew-hatred is again raising its ugly head today in all strata of society and in all areas of the political spectrum, from the political right to the radical left to deep in the center. and in many muslim communities. forces such as the afd, the representatives of the anti-semitic bds campaign and radical muslims may have little in common with each other - only anti-semitism unites them all. ladies and gentlemen, of course, that's only half the truth. fortunately, there are also people all over europe who are committed to remembrance and to democracy and openness. their voices are loud and numerous. in many, if not all, countries of the european union, they form a large majority of the population. but we must not rest on this numerical superiority. history has shown how difficult it can be for the majority to defend its ideals against a renegade minority. and so we see in contemporary european politics how quickly anti-semitism spreads if it is not curbed in time. one of the most dramatic examples of this development is found in the united kingdom today. the labour party, which has been a bastion of state political reason throughout its long history, has become one of europe's most egregious cases of political anti-semitism in recent years under the leadership of jeremy corbyn. under the new leadership, labour has moved far beyond the political centre. (applause from the centre) it is obvious that in the moral darkness of such non-positioning the most questionable political vegetation thrives. this example shows how quickly the policy of tolerance can be abandoned when the prognosis is favourable. labour under corbyn is an example. such developments cannot be explained solely by reference to the special political role of the united kingdom. they are everywhere in europe and they show that something has gone wrong in our countries. anti-semitism is finding political and social space again in many european countries. what has been dormant for a long time is now coming to the surface: where hatred of jews is not combated immediately and vigorously, it is breaking out. the recent anti-semitism polls have also shown this unequivocally. mr president, you have already referred to this. ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear. a europe where 89% of the jewish population complain of an increase in anti-semitism in their hometown has a problem. a europe in which more than a third of the jewish population has ever seriously considered emigrating has a problem. jew-hatred poisons the social climate as a whole. it makes a mockery of the european promise: freedom and security are either for every single european citizen or they are for no one. it is with sadness and pain that i see that today, so many years after the end of the holocaust, we are again and still faced with such widespread anti-semitism. but it is our duty to oppose this development and to reverse it. it's our responsibility. because the greatest tragedy in jewish history happened right here in europe. the cities that are the center of our lives today were often the scene of the worst crime in human history, committed by the german government of that time, less than 80 years ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they are the ones who are steering the destiny of the european union. i therefore appeal to you to take a firm stand against the rampant hatred of the jews, both now and in the future, even after the forthcoming elections to this parliament. i hope that this parliament will continue to live up to its responsibilities in the future. the freedom and democracy we enjoy today are only as strong as the commitment of the democrats to them and the willingness of the majority to defend them against an energetic, hateful minority. we must not let this hatred win. not again. never again cannot become now again. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank mrs charlotte knobloch, president of the european parliament, for her valuable testimony, which is invaluable to us all. we will now observe a minute's silence in memory of all the victims of the holocaust, bearing in mind that to dedicate a minute to each of the victims, we would have to remain silent for over eleven years. after a minute of silence, we will hear ravel's kaddish performed by the queen elisabeth of belgium music chapel. during the minute of silence, the following drawings by children detained in the terezin ghetto will be shown in the hall: there were about 15,000. only 150 of them survived. as a lasting reminder of their tragedy, they left us their creations, now on display in the pinkas synagogue in prague, to which we express our sincere thanks. more than a thousand words, these drawings illustrate their emotions in the face of atrocities that no child should ever have to suffer. "never again". (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by talking about a subject which gives us great sadness: venezuela. as you know, last week, on the occasion of mass marches against the regime, the president of the national assembly, juan guaidó, proclaimed himself interim president, relying on the venezuelan constitution. it was immediately recognized as such by a large part of the international community, especially the latin american states. more than forty people were killed and almost nine hundred arrested during these protests. this afternoon, and next saturday, the venezuelan people will be back on the streets demanding democracy, freedom and respect for human rights. the european parliament has already spoken eight times this term on the situation in venezuela. no other country has had this kind of attention. unfortunately, the situation is getting worse and has reached a point of no return. the maduro regime has succeeded in forcing more than three million people to flee their own country. this is the most important migration phenomenon in the history of latin america. if things don't change soon in venezuela, it will worsen with disastrous consequences for the entire region. in the face of the events of the past week, the european parliament cannot remain silent. i spoke by telephone with president guaidó, our only interlocutor, to assure him of the support of the european parliament. we have awarded the democratic opposition of venezuela the sakharov prize 2017. we were the first institution to denounce the violation of human rights, to call for sanctions against the regime, to call for a regional strategy to help in the refugee crisis. some countries are only interested in oil. we care about the people and the suffering of the venezuelan people. (applause and mocking laughter) (heading to the place where the laughter comes from): "risus abundat in ore stultorum". ask for the translation from the latin. when we speak, we should not only think about a peaceful solution and a democratic transition, but also think about the reconstruction of the country, so that people can return to a normal life with food and medicine. venezuela is going to need a lot of help and investment. the european union must stand by the venezuelan people. in the face of historical events where democracy is in danger it is clear that we must be on the side of freedom and human rights and not oppression.
i would also like to greet the family of pavel adamowicz, the mayor of gdansk who was assassinated on 13 january. his wife magdalena, his daughter antonina, his brother piotr are in the stands.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting on 17 january were distributed. are there any comments? (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved) '
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the past 12 days the italian government has been holding 47 migrants rescued in the mediterranean as hostages, with the complicity of other european governments which are deliberately building their shameful electoral campaign on the backs of migrants. what is happening off the port of syracuse is a disgrace to all of europe: land of the free. the management of migration must be brought back to the centre of the parliamentary debate and addressed with the tools at our disposal, in full respect of article 80: the european union is a major player in the world economy. that is why, mr president, i am calling for a debate on the sea watch case to be held in this part-session, so that such incidents will never happen again, either in europe or elsewhere in the world. let me make a personal point, mr president: the role of the european parliament has been strongly questioned during the two days i have spent in syracuse, and i believe it is your responsibility to defend the role of the european parliament, because you have been denied access for inspection visits. i believe that this cannot happen, neither in italy nor in any other country, because the european parliamentarian is free to play his role in all places, even where people have been deprived of their freedom.
if the member states of the union had approved the dublin reform as proposed by the european parliament, this would never have happened. not this one, not any others. so i think there is a strong message to be sent to the member states: i would like to see the dublin reform passed quickly.
it is the groups or a qualified number of members who ask for a debate or a change of the agenda. if your group or a qualified number of members ask to put the matter on the agenda, i will put it to the vote in the house, which will decide whether to proceed or not. the same applies to mr kyenge's proposal.
mrs gomes, i would remind you that holocaust victims and survivors are free to say what they think, but i would also remind you that in my speech i said that the victims of the holocaust were not only european citizens of jewish faith, but also roma, sinti and homosexuals. that was made very clear in my opening statement.
a call. there is no recall. i would ask you to adhere to the agenda when the agenda is scheduled to be read. we shall proceed to the political debate at the time set for the political debate.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on 17 january 2019. wednesdayi received from the ppe group a request to insert, as the fourth item, a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign policy on the 'venezuela situation'. the statement will be followed by a round of speeches by the political groups. the debate will conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
i have received a request from the s&d group to postpone the commission's statement on the state of the us-eu trade negotiations until a later date.
let us now move on to thursday. thursday i received a request from the efdd group that the vote on mr corbett's report on amendments to parliament's rules of procedure be postponed until a later part-session. i have also received a request from the green group that this report, which has been put to the vote directly, be deferred to the february partsession for a full debate. since the plenary is deciding on the amendments to the agenda for this part-session, i put to the vote, after hearing the arguments for and against, of course, the request to postpone the vote on mr corbett's report. the possibility of having a thorough discussion of this report will be discussed at the next meeting of the conference of presidents.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, rule 227 provides that amendments to the rules of procedure are to be examined by the committee responsible, the committee on constitutional affairs. this is a rule but it is also a basic democratic principle. however, tomorrow we will vote three amendments to the corbett report on the revision of the rules of procedure which, although of utmost significance, were never tabled or discussed during the many meetings of the working group and the committee. the s&d with jo leinen, the ppe with györgy schöpflin and alde with mr goerens require that the decision on the future existence of political groups be put into the hands of the absolute majority of parliament through a vote on their political affinity. on the basis of which parameter? no parameter is established in this proposal. is there – and this is a question – a political affinity between you, mr schöpflin, and your group after it split up on the sargentini report which called for the activation of article 7 against hungary, led by your party? just a little more than a quarter of your ppe colleagues voted in favour of your government. should you already go with the non-attached? this is not, i think, a rhetorical question. and you, mr leinen, apparently find elements of political affinity on the interpretation of the principles of democracy with the exponents of fidesz that you were criticising so much in this plenary on other occasions. do not speak also about alde that many times showed us very different votes – mr goerens who until very recently was sitting beside members of those groups which collected signatures for finland’s exit from the euro despite the pro—federal rhetoric. democracy means first and foremost granting the opposition’s rights. it can never turn into a tyranny of the majority. on behalf of the efdd group, i ask for the postponement of the vote on the corbett report in line with rule 149a. (applause)
then we shall put the green group's proposal to the vote. (parliament adopted the request for an amendment) *** following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: wednesday a debate on the council and commission statements on the 'withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union' is added as the first item on the agenda, followed by a round of speeches by the political groups; the joint debate on "gender balance" is moved to thursday, as the first item of the morning. thursday the joint debate on 'gender balance' will be the first item of the morning. the debate with finnish prime minister juha sipilä on the future of europe will follow from 10:00 to 12:00. the vote will begin at 12 noon. the following points are added to the votes: report by mr siekierski on 'rules on direct payments and support for rural development for the years 2019 and 2020'; article 106 objection on 'genetically modified squid'; article 106 objection to the genetically modified turmeric 5307; article 106 objection to the genetically modified turmeric mon 87403; e article 106 objection on 'ghb614 genetically modified cotton'. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak specifically about the amendment to the agenda, because i have been raising my hand for a long time. i have made a very specific request on behalf of my group: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a european issue, but it is also a question of the violation of fundamental rights. i have made this specific request and i would like it to be put to the vote.
mr president, as required by the rules of procedure, your group has not received any request for a change of the agenda, which must be received at least one hour before the sitting. for all other groups this request has arrived. since no request has been received on behalf of your group, i have not put the report to the vote. it's not my responsibility. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (2019/2539(rsp)).
before i give the floor to our negotiator, mr barnier, i would like to point out to both the president of the european commission and our negotiator that, whatever the solution to the brexit problem, the defence of the rights of the 3.5 million european citizens living in the united kingdom is a priority for the european parliament. we also defend the rights of british citizens living here in the european union. in other words, first of all the rights of citizens: europeans today, british, and those from other countries.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is difficult to deny that we are facing a difficult and grave situation and that the risk of no deal has increased. the house of commons has voted, it rejects a no-deal brexit, which is good, but at the same time it has asked to replace the northern ireland backstop with alternative arrangements, which is clearly not a workable option. we have seen with surprise the same prime minister who just a few days ago said that the best backstop was an essential part of the best deal possible, now calling for its replacement. this might have temporarily united a political party but it has not provided any positive solution to the brexit deadlock. we have therefore to explain again why this parliament and the european council in their mandate to the eu negotiator have made clear that an operational and legally binding backstop is an essential pillar of a withdrawal agreement, and that we will not give consent to any deal without it. preventing a hard border in ireland and protecting the peace process is not a partisan position, and the single market integrity is a non-negotiable free principle for the european union. the backstop is a guarantee, an option of last resort. it is necessary to ensure that if an agreement on the future eu-uk relationship is not concluded by the end of the transition period, the minimum essential safeguards will be in place to keep the border open while safeguarding the integrity of a single market. it is worth recalling that the backstop was modified at the request of the uk government and it was not an easy concession from the eu’s side. we did it to allow northern ireland to remain part of the same customs territory as the rest of the uk, avoiding tariffs, quotas or checks on rules of origin within it, and we did this notwithstanding the fact that our original proposal of backstop was simple, fair and did not impose any material border in the irish sea. the only positive message from yesterday’s vote is that the uk parliament rejects a no-deal brexit. this is welcome: a no-deal would be bad for everybody but a disaster for the uk. it is right that mps made clear that this is not acceptable. so what’s next? we have always said, and we repeat today, that we want to see as close a relationship as possible between the united kingdom and the european union. it is the uk’s red lines that have made this impossible so far. this means that for us the only alternative to the backstop is a closer eu-uk relationship. if you want to ensure that the backstop is never used, build a positive majority for a more ambitious relationship: a customs union and at least a closer alignment with the single market. we are now less than two months away from the uk leaving the eu. we urgently need to see a positive proposal from the uk on how to break this deadlock. if their parliament is unable to do this, then it should be put back to the british people. if the uk needs more time, we are open to it, but we need a clear plan or proposal on how it will help resolve the issue. we cannot allow more time for bluster or false promises. we are united – strongly united – calm and firm behind our negotiator who will continue to follow the clear mandate given both by the european council and the european parliament. so it is right that on the basis that is unity, we have to be worried but we can also be optimistic. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the already tense relations between china and taiwan have been rapidly deteriorating in recent times. chinese president xi jinping reiterated that the island must be reunited with china in accordance with the one-china policy decision, not ruling out the use of force if necessary, and the defense minister launched a military exercise in a strip of the east china sea designed to simulate real combat. further complicating the situation is the support offered to taipei by trump's united states, which has also been in close contact with taiwan for military supplies. the situation is not simple, both because of the geographical distance and the weight of the interests at stake. but a peaceful reunification of china is in everyone's interest. the international role of the european union is not yet the one it should be, and there is a need for it, especially in a world of increasing conflict. we must use the good relations we have with china, but also with taiwan, to reach a high-profile negotiated solution.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago i began my mandate in the european parliament with a question: why are the ttip documents classified? today, there is a new ttip on the horizon, but this time the documents are not secret. no, this time a more subtle strategy was adopted, because the documents were made public right away, but they are white, they are practically white: the commission has not yet published a report on the implementation of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what proof do we have? we have your kind words and then we have two negotiating mandates so generic that it's as if they were blank: i'm sure you'll forgive me if i don't feel very reassured. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. of course, you have evidently decided to reward their calm and constructive attitude. but the americans continue to strangle our industry with steel tariffs: they have formally asked to cut subsidies to our farmers; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. so, the famous temple gun is always well aimed. but you want to sit at a table with them. i read their demands: could not be more incompatible with us. they want free access to our agriculture, they want every product they approve to be licensed by us, they want to get into our public procurement without allowing us to invest in theirs. we are not going to stand by and we will not stand by until america shows good will and stops blackmailing us. today, as yesterday, it is no to ttip.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the very interesting and important strategic discussion on competition policy. let me add one comment relating to some of your contributions, about the need to strengthen our global competitiveness. it is absolutely clear that europe must stand up for our industry when necessary. we need the right trade defence instruments, the ability to screen foreign investments affecting our security, and we must help our industries to adapt so they have a future on our continent. the state aid rules help industries to invest in new skills and innovation. the commission is working on state aid rules that are as simple as possible and fit for the future. we will involve parliament on any significant proposal for change. honourable members, in may, voters will want to see what europe brings for them. we will do our share. we must prove that a vote on europe matters by giving our citizens a competition policy to believe in.
in writing. competition policy, which has been in force for over 60 years, is one of the main pillars of european integration, ensuring a level playing field in all areas and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. in view of the continuing changes brought about by the digitalisation of the modern economy, competition policy must ensure the consistent development of the digital single market. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. in addition, market distortions resulting from unfair trading practices need to be addressed and a level playing field ensured worldwide, which benefits workers, consumers and businesses. additional safeguards will have to be introduced, including the establishment of a european framework for the control of foreign direct investment, anti-subsidy instruments and initiatives to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report on the protection of the union's financial interests shows an encouraging decrease in the total number of irregularities this year too. however, despite the positive trend since 2014, it is clear that the level of fraud against eu funds is still very high we have heard it: the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, with the eu's role in the fight against corruption increasing. much remains to be done: for example, several member states do not yet have specific laws against organised crime, even though there is a steady increase in the involvement of criminal groups in cross-border fraud affecting the financial interests of the union, such as cigarette smuggling, currency counterfeiting or carousel fraud. moreover, despite the recent adoption of important legislative measures, such as the pif directive or the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office, i do not think that enough has been done in terms of preventing corruption or recovering funds that have been subject to fraud. this is why the commission's decision to stop publishing specific reports on corruption continues to raise some questions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. finally, i think that in this discussion too it should be stressed that the role of whistleblowers in the fight against fraud and corruption should not be underestimated. the importance of their contribution and the sensitivity of their role mean that we hope that the legislative proposal setting out their rights and obligations will be adopted in a timely manner. i thank my fellow rapporteur for his work and i thank you all for your attention.
in writing. the fight against fraud is essential at all levels, but it is absolutely crucial that it is conducted at union level. freedom of movement favours not only lawful trade but also illegal trade. this is particularly the case with vat fraud, the so-called 'carousel fraud', which affects all european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the case law is much broader. moreover, corruption, often not immediately visible, has a very high cost that must be fought by all means. to this end, it is important that specific data and in-depth studies be developed so that the phenomena can be precisely circumscribed and timely intervention can be carried out.
in writing. the european commission published its annual report on the fight against fraud affecting the eu's financial interests in 2017 in september 2018. the commission has also received information from the member states, including the european parliament, the council and the commission, on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 and on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2018. in other words, this means that fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities actually decreased in number in 2017, but actually increased in total value, as individual cases can involve large sums of money. this makes the number of irregularities reported a partial indicator, as it only indicates the amount of irregularities and not their financial impact. the report also highlights a non-homogeneous distribution of irregularities across the member states, with greece, spain and hungary significantly above the eu average of 1.96 per cent of uncollected traditional own resources.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is late at night for such an important debate. it's the dark night of the democracy! a discussion you didn't even want because you're probably ashamed of it; and it's a good thing that "transparency" was the mantra of this mandate. a revision to the label: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the exact opposite of the deep meaning of the word democracy. tocqueville would have agreed with me: this is tyranny of the majority. he believes that parliament can decide by an absolute majority - or even a qualified majority - on the survival of groups. but are these oppositions so inconvenient and annoying? a judgment on political affinity without providing any definition of it, nor any objective parameters or criteria for measurement. what about your political affinity? what can we say about you, given that there are delegations in the epp who have been discredited by more than half their own political group? you pretend to argue, but in reality, from the socialists to fidesz, you are all in agreement when it comes to crushing the rights of groups that may upset you in some way. and here you also want legal legitimacy to do so, to ensure that members who are not aligned, or who are judged as such by the absolute majority, end up as non-attached members, who often cannot work because they are not in a position to do so, given the poor allocation of resources and officials given to them. instead of healing this asymmetry, you have done the exact opposite: you've tried to put as many alternative movements as possible in those conditions, perhaps because, all in all, you're perhaps afraid of the terms of comparison. this is a real attack on the foundations of democracy, an attack by a single majority without any objective criteria: you have tried in every way to keep it hidden, avoiding even a discussion, but the citizens - i assure you - have eyes to see and ears to hear and i also remind you that there is no worse dictatorship than a false democracy.
the joint debate on the issue of gender balance brings to the agenda the question with a request for an oral answer to the council on 'women at the helm of enterprises', tabled by iratxe garcía pérez, sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, evelyn regner and anna hedh (o-000123/2018 - b8-0002/2019) (2019/2513 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to join everyone here today for this important debate. i want to begin by saying that gender equality lies at the heart of the council’s vision of social europe. the council’s commitment to equality between women and men has been strongly affirmed in many declarations, as well as in the legislation that we have developed over the years together with parliament. i would also like to recall the european pillar of social rights, which was jointly proclaimed by parliament, the council and the commission in november 2017. gender equality has pride of place in this document, and i quote ‘equality of treatment and opportunities between women and men must be ensured and fostered in all areas, including regarding participation in the labour market, terms and conditions of employment and career progression. women and men have the right to equal pay for work of equal value’. this commitment of course echoes the eu treaties and our existing legislation but this issue should not be left aside. despite the enormous progress that has been made over the past half century and more, equality in practice continues to elude us. let me give you an example. there is still a large gender pay gap in europe. the average gender pay gap is 16.2% according to eurostat and women’s gross hourly pay is still lower than men’s. this of course is not equality. we will address the gender pay gap in a set of council conclusions that we hope to see adopted at the epsco council in june. in order to deliver on the promise contained in the pillar of social rights, we need continued and determined action on the part of the commission, the co—legislators and the member states. honourable members, today you have asked us to comment more specifically on the commission’s proposal for a directive on improving the gender balance on company boards. i regret to say that – as of course you know – there is still a blocking minority in the council. the most recent meeting on the file took place under the maltese presidency in 2017, and the proposal has not been formally discussed by the council since. as things stand right now, the file remains blocked. nevertheless, there is broad consensus in europe on the need to improve the gender balance on company boards. although the member states have different approaches the principle is not contested. in this vein, the romanian presidency aims to facilitate discussions at the council level in order to explore possible ways forward. i would also like to mention the proposal for a directive on work—life balance for parents and caretakers. here we have better news. indeed, i’m glad to say that negotiations between the council and parliament led to a provisional agreement at the sixth trilogue, which took place on 24 january. this success was made possible also by the excellent progress that was achieved under both the bulgarian and austrian presidencies. facilitating work—life balance is a vital part of social and employment policies. we must do all we can to help our citizens reconcile work and private life. this is all the more important in the context of the demographic situation and labour market changes. on the one hand, we need to make sure that europe’s highly educated, highly skilled women are able to take advantage of labour market opportunities. this makes obvious economic sense. it is also a matter of equal rights. on the other hand, european women and men should be able to have children without having to choose between being a parent and having a job. i would like to point out that, more often than not, women are the ones faced with this decision. this is only feasible if workers with families have adequate leave rights and if those rights are extended to both women and men. meanwhile, it is also necessary to respect the diversity of the national systems in place. in europe, it is never the case that one size fits all – least of all in the field of employment and family policy where traditions, economic realities and social assistance vary very greatly between the member states. we must respect the principle of subsidiarity. these were some of the considerations we had to address in the negotiations on the work—life balance directive. it was not easy, but i am pleased that we found a solution that raised the minimum standards in europe, yet gives the member states the necessary flexibility. i thank parliament for its cooperation on this file. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the european parliament for putting the important topic of women’s rights and gender equality in the eu on the agenda today. i am very grateful for your overwhelming support for the commission’s proposal aiming to improve gender balance on the corporate boards of the largest eu listed companies. i have now been commissioner for gender equality for almost five years. while i am proud of our collective work, in particular about the recent finalisation of the work—life balance package, i remain concerned, as the european institute for gender equality states in its largest and latest gender equality index, that in some areas we are moving at a snail’s pace. when we were publishing the latest figures i didn’t hide my big disappointment about this slow development, in spite of all the efforts we are investing. the gender equality index shows that gender equality in decision—making continues to have the lowest score of all domains evaluated in the index, and this despite some national legislation which have been adopted in the meantime. we are all aware of the studies, which clearly show the benefits of diversity on boards – benefits for business and for society alike, of course. the commission remains committed to the proposed women on boards directive. despite their capabilities and educational achievements, women continue to struggle against long—held and systemic entry barriers onto corporate boards and leadership positions. the proposed directive will enable us to decisively widen the access of talented women to decision—making positions and to accelerate economic growth. with women in power, a snowball effect will be created towards more gender equality. i would like to recall that this is a flexible and proportionate proposal. it is a good example of subsidiarity—friendly legislation, which offers member states considerable flexibility in how to achieve the progress. it is also legislation that is gender neutral; it deals with adjustments regarding the under—represented sex in the case of similar levels of qualification, be they men or women. it deals with an overall objective and member states are free to keep and apply their own existing effective measures aimed at improving gender balance in corporate boards. according to our figures the states which have the legislation make progress; those states which do not have any legislation are just stagnating. so we see the positive impact of legislation in many examples. the commission’s proposal enjoys wide support from the european parliament, and i want to thank you for this support once again. it also enjoys the support of a majority of the member states. in my view, a general approach is within reach. i can only repeat what has been said here also, that there is an important development, which was done by the spanish government. i was in spain recently and there is very strong determination among the members of the government, including the prime minister, to move on and to convince also the states which are still opposing this piece of legislation. of course, i also rely very much on the romanian presidency, which is very determined as well. i am ready to engage, in the run—up to the march epsco council, with the member states to try to unblock the negotiations in the council. the minister also mentioned here the june council and, well, we have to have a serious debate about how to tackle the – i would say shameful – issue of the gender pay gap, which is also still very high in europe. so the commission trusts the romanian presidency will invest substantial efforts in this important dossier and actively pursue the discussions with a view to a possible compromise solution.
at this stage we can no longer accept blue card applications due to time constraints.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the s&d and green group very much for these two oral questions. we have been working in the same direction with the report on gender mainstreaming, which was drawn up by mrs mlinar. clearly we must be aware that we are dealing with a symptom of a discriminatory culture and we are working with positive action to prevent these data emerging once again from the studies carried out from becoming a vector of further discrimination. but we must be aware that this parliament must give answers, not only to the glass ceiling that affects 1% of women, but to the forms of discrimination and violence that affect 99% of women. the european parliament must fight against all forms of discrimination based on gender, class and race, and i believe that this european parliament can make a contribution to this end. i really thank the ladies for these oral questions. i do believe, however, that we have a great deal to do in a legislature which, as mrs urtasun said, could have done more on gender equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november 2012, long ago, parliament voted on the proposal for a directive on women on boards of directors, which is still blocked in the council, at first reading. this proposal for a directive was designed to bring about greater equality between women and men on the boards of the major listed companies, although we are aware that there will be real equality only when it can be achieved through proven merit on the ground and not through an a priori imposed gender quota, merit and competence that we women have - and i would like to reassure the colleague who spoke earlier - i am sorry for him but it is shown by the data that women graduates are in a higher percentage than their male colleagues. the starting point for the commission's proposal for this directive was worrying: only 13.7% of the posts were held by women. today, therefore, i ask myself and the romanian presidency: what measures will you take to finally break the deadlock? i also wonder whether you will be able to speak up for the demands of european women, whom we represent here, in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in our discussions we often mention that gender equality is a founding value of the european union, even if we have different attitudes, as this morning's debate shows. what the council is doing is simply shameful: we are faced with a directive which was voted by a very large majority over seven years ago and nothing has happened. the directive's objective is not an extraordinary one: 40% of women on boards does not correspond to, for example, the same share in top positions: the question of the pay gap between men and women for equal work has remained open and will remain open for a long time. so what we decided was a small step forward in the right direction but that remained simply a good intention. i hope that the council will be willing - and will show in concrete terms that it is willing - to move in the right direction, which is to respect and give a go to the directive we voted for.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, it was said, women made up only a quarter of the boards of directors of the largest european listed companies, and even today the approaches adopted by the member states vary considerably, with the result that there are clear inequalities within the union. the insufficient use of the skills of highly qualified women not only represents unacceptable discrimination based on gender stereotypes, but also undermines the proper functioning of the labour market in the union. in order to achieve better gender equality, it is shown that significant progress can be made through the adoption of legislative measures providing for so-called 'pink quotas'. in my country, italy, for example, the introduction of a specific law on this subject has led to a 33% increase in the number of women on boards in just five years, which has had a positive effect on all performance indicators, thanks to the expertise of women. we therefore call on the romanian presidency to define as soon as possible the negotiations on the proposal for a directive on gender balance in boards of directors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can see from the debate in this house this morning that there is a broad agreement in this parliament on this directive, which is not, you will recall, anything extraordinary: it is a small step in the right direction, because women are not being forced onto board seats. it is simply acknowledging that not only can 50% of the male universe be represented on the boards, but that women must also be represented. so what's the problem? the problem is, as usual, within the council. i say this with great regret and concern because, on the one hand, there is an attitude in parliament which would like to allow these institutions and the european union to make progress. on the other hand, there is the attitude of the council which, mr president, all too often blocks action that is going in the right direction. so if equality is a fundamental principle of the european union, then we must act!
member of the commission. – mr president, i am really grateful for the determination, dedication and support of the european parliament for this course, which has been obvious through the whole debate. i am also grateful for the interest of the media in this topic. let me conclude by saying a few words. next to the clear support which i have already expressed from the commission side for this piece of legislation, i wanted to tell you that we are not waiting for this to be unblocked in the council because there is still a lot of work which can be done to support higher or better diversity, and not only in in the world of business. i would like to mention again several statistics. in our society more than 50% are women. we have 62% of university graduates who are women. so one would say that it would be normal if we had at least such an adequate position and representation of women in various spheres of life, but let’s just compare these figures. we have 22% of women on boards. we have only 6% of chief executives. coming a little bit further, to the political sphere, we have only 20% of women in national parliaments. we have some governments in the member states where there are only one or two women. recently there was one government where there were no women. let’s come to a positive example now. i am happy to say that in the commission we are already tackling the 40% in managerial positions, which is thanks to the continuous strong push and very smart procedure which is guaranteeing fair competition, free of any kind of bias or barriers which we see in many other places. to react to what mr żółtek said here – he is no longer here – believe me, from my position as a woman in the commission, i still feel very strongly as a woman that i didn’t have to become a man to be in such a position and to contribute to the decision—making of the commission. it’s a coincidence that jean—claude juncker is here, but he said very clearly ‘at least nine women for the commission’ and i think that all my women colleagues are doing the right job by bringing the perspective of women into decision—making. so when we compare those figures, we have to say that there is something unhealthy and abnormal in other european societies, and that’s why we are working hard to change this. as i said, we are not only waiting for the unblocking of the directive on women on boards. by the way, i would like to ask ms parker to read the current version of the directive because you will not find anything there which would indicate that gender itself – to be a woman only – is the qualification. we are inviting fair competition and cooperation. it’s good to pay attention to the current version, which we are promoting. at this moment, half of the member states already have the legislation so, if we move on with the legislation, we will help the remaining member states. it’s true that the member states can act themselves. they do not have to wait for the unblocking of this directive because it’s up to them to move on this. in the meantime, the commission is not waiting. we are doing a lot of non—legislative work. we are supporting the diversity charter, where there are now already 10 000 institutions, including the biggest companies. i will name a few of them: sodexo, ikea, ibm, siemens. these are the multinationals which are promoting the idea of diversity, which is advantageous for business in many member states, including the states where there is no legislation. so in fact they are exporting and spreading this positive corporate culture. we are also funding a lot of projects which promote diversity. so we are doing a lot of things in the meantime. it’s something which i call plan b – not to wait for the adoption of the legislation, but to do a lot of other things. but i have to repeat at the end of my concluding remarks that we still believe that this piece of legislation will be adopted. again i want to repeat that we trust the romanian presidency, that they will do a great job on this.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this discussion. as i said in my opening remarks, the council commitment to gender equality is real and unwavering. the romanian presidency has been organising bilateral talks with the blocking minority in order to seek a possible solution. we have also scheduled meetings at working—party level on the file, but we must not forget that the presidency is in the hands of the member states. under the ordinary legislative procedure, an agreement among member states requires a qualified majority. in addition to the work we have undertaken in cooperation with parliament to advance european legislation, we are also – as i mentioned – preparing a set of conclusions on the gender pay gap and policies to improve the reconciliation of work, family and private life. we hope to see these conclusions adopted at the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs (epsco) council on 13 june. allow me, also, to take this opportunity to inform you that the romanian presidency will be hosting the high—level group on gender mainstreaming in bucharest in february. we are also looking forward to discussing the topic of gender equality at the informal meeting of the epsco ministers in bucharest in april. thank you very much for this opportunity to discuss these important topics here today. by working together, the council and parliament, we can end discrimination and unfairness and make equal treatment a reality for all women and men. at this time of turbulence and transition, we face many challenges; however, the future belongs to equality.
the joint debate is closed. the agenda includes a discussion with the finnish prime minister, juha sipilä, on the future of europe. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
first of all, i want to thank the finnish prime minister for being here. thank you very much. it is important for us to hear the different positions of the different countries on the future of the european union. for the european parliament there are two, three or four key points. we want more power for the european parliament. we want more europe and not less europe. we want to strengthen europe and not to destroy europe. on the mff, we are in favour of a change from 1.1 to 1.3. we are in favour of own resources. immigration is also an important point for the european parliament. the european parliament approved the reform of the dublin rules. we want a decision by the european council on this. at the centre of today’s debate there are two key points: brexit and venezuela. it is important to know your ideas on the future of the european union. we know the position of the european commission. there is the position of the european parliament of course and there are the positions of different member states. now it is important to know the position of finland. prime minister, you have the floor.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the future of the european union must be marked by a radical and profound process of change which is increasingly being demanded by european citizens. the signs are all there: the establishment parties that identify themselves with the socialist and popular political families are losing everywhere in europe and will lose in the next european elections. italy is at the forefront of this process of change. the citizens are fed up with austerity, corruption, injustice, privilege and waste. thanks to the resources made available by the network, they united and, from below, peacefully conquered the country's government in a few years and sent home a political caste deaf to the needs of the citizens. let me give you an example of what this change entails: in italy, in the past, economic manoeuvring was synonymous with social butchery in the name of public stability. today, we are giving back resources and dignity to citizens, focusing on development and employment. with the italian move, we are reducing debt through investment-driven growth and cutting waste, we have taken away the pensions of politicians and financed the citizenship income that finland knows very well. the citizenship income is in fact an economic manoeuvre in its own right, aimed not at welfare but at the reconversion of the labour force. our goal is to reduce poverty, in italy there are over 5 million poor people; enable those outside the labour market to acquire new professional skills and thus create employment. entrepreneurs will have qualified human resources to meet their needs, and will also benefit from reductions in recruitment costs; the income will boost domestic consumption. we want to make italy stronger in a united and united europe, but also in the world. mr president, europe must beware of the false prophets of change, those who bow to lobbyists. macron, for example, today reversed the ban on the use of glyphosate in agriculture. this was supposed to start in 2021. the citizens are not stupid, though. macron backs down a few days after the aachen summit with merkel and gives a big gift to the german bayer, which bought monsanto in 2018. he changes his mind instead of applying the precautionary principle enshrined in the european treaties. do we really want to revive europe? then let's stop the hypocrisy and change it, for real! the public wants facts. europe must be a leading player on the world stage and speak with a strong and unified voice. we need, for example, a seat for the european union in the un security council. instead, with the signing of the treaty of aachen, merkel and macron are drawing up their union of the future; the european parliament has been a great influence in the development of the european union, and it has been a great influence in the development of the european union. i remind you that two weaknesses do not make a strength; a europe that is controlled remotely from berlin and paris is the exact opposite of the demands that citizens make of the entire continent. italy is the third largest economy in the eurozone, but it does not aspire to hegemony, but rather to be a guarantor of the coherence of decisions and pluralism. it is now more than ever necessary to stress the importance of a political axis to oppose this undue concentration of power, which would render the debate within the institutions meaningless. we oppose this leadership by participating and involving people from below. everyone must have equal dignity in brussels. it is true that the european institutions are perceived as being distant from the citizens. this democratic deficit should be addressed not by holed up in the palace, but by giving legislative initiative and greater powers of control and political direction to the only european institution directly elected by the citizens: the european parliament, that is. does europe want to change? then abandon the austerity policies that lead to cuts in education, health care, pensions and entitlements. but despite junker's self-criticism of austerity, the road taken is the same. i would like to make an appeal to all of you, ladies and gentlemen: we are blocking macroeconomic conditionality. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the european funds are essential resources for the development of our territories and for combating water pollution, for example. cutting them would be a blow to them. europe can change if it stands with its citizens and gives them answers and not slanders.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, welcome to this parliament, which is a bit deserted at the moment. the enormous sympathy which, at least from my point of view, european peoples have for your people prevents me from doubting that a representative, like the undersigned, of the very populist parties against which you are agitating, could be cynically led to say that every time you declare that you want to host - even in your own home and, above all, which is more serious, in the country - 20-25 thousand immigrants, you are bringing water to our mill, because in europe there is a growing awareness - even from those who are certainly neither racist nor xenophobic - that this disorderly immigration is only a source of insecurity, of difficulties in integrating and of frightening costs. would it not be better to think - as someone wisely and intelligently says, including some of the leaders of this parliament - that we should instead commit ourselves to a marshall plan for africa? the right recipe is not acceptance, it is not the attempt - very difficult, very arduous, often impossible - to integrate. i think, for example, of people of religion and, above all, of muslim culture, who are difficult if not impossible to integrate. i would have liked to hear from the representatives of a great people, a rich nation like finland, that they are willing to join this marshall plan. but the appeals are not coming from this europe, which is a little distracted, a little demagogic, which does not realise the seriousness of the problem of immigration and the need and the moral and historical duty of europe to help the african peoples, not by doing as it has done in the past, by financing wars and speculation, but with real aid, perhaps woven through the network of small and mediumsized enterprises, those who know how to do business and who could solve the problem of immigration at its root. but you - excuse the blunt expression - were a bit demagogic, giving the impression that you have a demagogic approach to immigration. if i were finnish - and i would like to be a true finnish - i would advise you to change your path and follow the example of those in europe who, with courage, perhaps at the risk of being accused of xenophobia, racism, etc., choose the right path, the true path, that of our missionaries, who went to africa and brought culture, education and growth. follow the example of the italian saint, don bosco, who, if he were alive today, as he did in the 19th century in poor italy, would give immigrants a tool to work with, teach them to work, not to come to deal, to rape, to do what in their countries, perhaps, these african boys have never thought to do. the mistakes and serious crimes committed by immigrants in europe are your own fault and your own demagogy, not those peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have two points to put to the finnish prime minister, for which i thank him. one concerns the european union's foreign policy, that is, the tragedy which a great people, the venezuelan people, is experiencing and suffering at this very moment. i believe that there is a need for a compact for the rights of democracy, peace, the requirement that people can live in freedom, for civil rights, the rights of women, children and a system and so i ask the finnish prime minister what his position is and if he believes that juan guaidó is recognized, even by the finnish prime minister himself, as the legitimate president of venezuela. the other major theme is anti-dumping, unfair competition, the economy and international trade: we had a chance to get a great result and a great response. our businesses need more protection.
thank you very much, prime minister. thank you for your answers. i also thank you for your position on venezuela.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, between the liberticidal amendments on the composition of the groups, which were never discussed in the committee responsible, and the request to vote by secret ballot on amendments which provide for greater transparency in this institution, secrecy in transparency, a beautiful oxymoron from a political point of view, we will never cease to be amazed. this reform of the rules of procedure is becoming a farce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as vice president, i feel it's my duty to protect its reputation; as a member of parliament, i have a duty to respect the wishes of citizens who demand transparency. as a european citizen, i have a duty to demand that pluralism and democracy be respected in this house. that is why i am asking, on behalf of the efdd group, under rule 188 (2), for this text to be referred back to committee, since it is likely to become a terrible boomerang for the honour and reputation of this parliament. i also thank you for the great democracy you have been able to express in this context.
it is a pleasure to announce that the european parliament recognises juan guaidó as the legitimate interim president of venezuela. the european parliament is the first european institution to do so and we call on the member states and the high representative to do the same as soon as possible in order to have a single and strong position.
mr president, i would just like to say that i am extremely pleased, also on behalf of my political group, that common sense has prevailed in this house. the corbett report, which does introduce some good measures into our rules of procedure, was, however, largely marred by two deadly risks, in our view: on the one hand, there was the problem of transparency. if there were amendments which were absolutely acceptable, there was also the will of the ppe group to use the secret ballot. we have seen that, fortunately, this secret vote was in favour of the amendments which we strongly supported. on top of that, there was of course the well-known theme of the enormous abuse of power, allowing a majority to decide on the status of the opposition. but we have seen that he did not win an absolute majority in the chamber, and i am pleased that my colleagues have made the principle of democratic representation and pluralism prevail in this chamber, defeating those who wanted to give all power to the groups of the ancien régime.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, the annual report on the protection of financial interests and the fight against fraud in the european union highlights the damage caused by the large lobbies which, by entering the institutions or, conversely, by the so-called 'revolving door effect', exercise a strong influence, if not corruption. it also expressed serious concern about controls on financial instruments managed by intermediaries and the control of the legal domiciles of beneficiaries. finally, it states that intra-community vat fraud costs the union some 50 billion a year. the commission has also received information from the member states on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. is it possible that everything is fine except in one area? is it not that there are gaps in the overall detection of fraud? this is all the more urgent given that some countries report no fraud at all. how is that possible? is it not that some states, fearful of controls on their budgetary laws and thus on the economic governance process imposed by the european union, prefer to cheat on anti-corruption monitoring by reducing the sending of data or even not sending it at all? in the light of these shortcomings, how can the commission not consider it necessary to publish the report on the fight against corruption? why would you do that? ladies and gentlemen, if we are to combat corruption and fraud and safeguard the interests of european citizens, we must intensify controls and improve their quality. the commission should identify rigorous indicators and uniform criteria which are to be adopted in a binding manner by all member states. prevention and control measures must be decided and harmonised throughout europe. it is necessary to enable olaf to access the data and information necessary to carry out the appropriate checks. since all these considerations have been largely expressed in the report, my vote was in favour.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 31 january 2019.
this afternoon we dedicated the radio studio of the european parliament in strasbourg to antonio megalizzi and bartosz piotr orent-niedzielski, the two young journalists - (applause)... who lost their lives in the attack in strasbourg on 11 december. i greet on behalf of all of you their families who are with us today. (applause) it's been 60 days since that vile attack on our values and our way of life. today's ceremony is a strong signal that we do not want to forget the victims of terrorism and that we always defend the right of journalists, all over the world, to be able to tell what is happening and to find out the truth.
the european parliament is also following very closely what is happening in venezuela. i would like to remind you of the situation of venezuelan and foreign journalists imprisoned in that country simply for doing their work, and we call for their release.
i think i have always shown this by going, even during my term of office, to the border between italy and slovenia, and therefore going back and forth, and there were also european parliamentarians with me. i only wanted to remember the victims of a violence that was the result of the hatred of that time, which no longer exists. i have also mentioned in an article i wrote for a leading italian newspaper that people today live in peace among themselves. i have been to croatia several times, i have been to slovenia several times, as i have been to montenegro and serbia. i have no intention of revenge, just a feeling of remembrance for those who lost their lives in those terrible years.
i never wanted to impose the use of the italian language on anyone. i only said that there were italians who died, and there are still many italians who are exiles from those lands. but there was no territorial claim, and i was referring to a specific case, that of the phobias, not to what had happened in the past. i think my position is very clear, in that i have denounced in my speech the horrors of both materialisms and dictatorships of the past century.
i will.
i am glad that you share mr jauregui's position, which i believe is the position of the whole parliament. that's why i'm sending the letter to the president of nicaragua.
mr van dalen, i spoke to the prime minister of pakistan about this and i received assurances the day after the court's decision. if you think it appropriate, i can call him back and ask for news of asia bibi and her family. but i think the intention is to protect her and to get her out of the country with every guarantee of safety for her safety, which is in the interest of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i bring to this house the anger, the despair, the tragedy of an entire people, the shepherds of sardinia, who are pouring all their produce, all their milk, into the streets at this hour. they throw it out on the street, a white river that is poured out on the street. rather than starve, they make the choice to throw away their product. it is a concept of dignity, strength and pride of an entire people, the sardinian, serious, straightforward, which cannot be treated in these terms. mr president, i believe that the industrialists and the multinational companies of the large distribution sector cannot, either in sardinia or in all the regions of europe, achieve the condition of imposing their diktats in order to starve an entire people who produce. we must therefore act immediately, and above all we must also take account of product certification, combined with another important aspect, that of fair competition. we cannot transfer products that come from outside to give them a different brand and origin. so i'm with the sardinian shepherds. i know, of course, that there must be mediation, a mediation which means bargaining between supply and demand, and i therefore ask you, mr president, to be able to meet a delegation of the same pastors in the coming days.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 7 february 2019. the following amendments were tabled: the s&d group called for the oral question on 'great predators' to be turned into a commission statement. the debate is expected to conclude with a resolution to be voted on in march. i give the floor to mr noichl to present his group's request.
we now move on to the demands of tuesday. the s&d and greens/efa groups asked on tuesday that an oral question to the commission on the 'future of the lgbti action list' be added to the agenda and discussed together with the oral question on the rights of intersex people. the debate on the new oral question should end with a resolution. i'll give the floor to mr. keller to present the motion.
we now come to the demands for wednesday. wednesdaythe s&d group has asked that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union on the 'future of the inf treaty and its impact on the eu' be added as the first item in the 18-24 time slot. the debate should end with a resolution. i give the floor to mr moody to present his group's request.
the s&d group has asked that the debate on the report by mr zīle on 'common standards for access to the international market for bus transport services' be postponed to a later stage. i give the floor to mr van brempt to present the motion.
the terms have been decided by the conference of presidents, so i don't think it can be changed any more, it's not the president's choice. if the groups agree, we can go at 1 p.m. tomorrow, but we can't go any further.
the deadline for services is 1 p.m. tomorrow, or i can't even make the offer. do we agree without a vote? i think we're agreed, so we'll move the deadline to 1 p.m. tomorrow. the ppe group has asked that the council and commission statements on 'security threats linked to the increased chinese technological presence in the eu and possible eu action to reduce these threats' be added in the afternoon or evening. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on in march. i give the floor to mr niedermayer to present the motion.
we now come to the demands for thursday. the alde group has called for the title of the urgent debate on the situation in chechnya and the oyub titiev case to be changed to 'the situation in chechnya', thus removing the reference to the oyub titiev case.
mr harms, i would like to give you the floor, but since we have to balance the two, with one speaker for and one against, if you speak, either for or against, then i have to let someone else speak. so it is not fair to debate this, i do not know whether you want to speak for or against, but i cannot give you the floor on this subject. if it's for anything else, i'd be happy to. (parliament rejected the request)
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the union's anti-fraud programme for the period 2021-2027 is of particular importance because it is intended to finance a number of measures essential for the protection of the union's financial interests and the fight against fraud and corruption. i think that this is the reason why, as indicated in the text we are about to vote on, the funding should be increased. the commission proposal has been supplemented and strengthened by the inclusion of provisions to increase the transparency of work programmes and financing, to clarify the link with the protection of the financial interests that projects must have and to ensure synergies between the various existing financing instruments. in order to ensure more effective protection of the financial interests of the union, the anti-fraud programme should also be directed towards supporting cooperation between the administrative and law enforcement authorities of the member states and the relevant union agencies, including the forthcoming european public prosecutor's office. i thank mr salafranca for his work.
the reporter. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary control of the executive is a precondition for the democratic legitimacy of the executive itself. recent changes in legislative procedures and the increased role of the community executive have created the need to strengthen these parliamentary control procedures. as you know, parliament has various instruments at its disposal for exercising its political control over the commission: the commission's role is to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to exercise its powers in the best possible way, and that the budgetary authority is able to exercise its powers in the best possible way. however, their application needs to be improved and adapted to the specific challenges of the union's institutional structure. after an in-depth study of the situation, involving many experts and lasting more than six months, the following summarizes the main points of this report. first, the proposal to lower the threshold for triggering a motion of censure. we believe that the current threshold is too high to allow effective use, although of course it must not be too low to prevent abuse. we therefore propose, in a future amendment to the treaties - because we need to amend the treaties - that it be lowered, probably by an absolute majority, but it will be part of the debate. under the current treaties, the parliament does not formally have the right of legislative initiative. the report states that parliament can formally take this initiative, which should obviously also be seeded in the next amendment of the treaties, again taking into account the specific problems, the specific questions, which may concern this parliament, thus not attributing it to individual members but to larger groups. another point is the individual responsibility of the commissioners. the report considers that in a future amendment to the treaties the possibility of making individual commissioners accountable to parliament for the exercise of their mandate should be considered. another point is the appointment of senior officials in the commission. the report calls on the commission to review its administrative procedures for the appointment of its secretary-general, directors-general and directors, to ensure that the best candidates are selected in a transparent manner and that equal opportunities are guaranteed to all. as you will have understood, this report, which is also an overview of political control over the commission, also contains several political messages. the first is to ensure that there is an effective system of counter-measures in the institutional area of the union. secondly, we must strengthen our controls on the appointment of senior officials who have a political role in the commission. thirdly, the politicization of the commission through the spitzenkandidat process, which we support, does, however, involve greater individual control by the commissioners. finally, a formal delegation of the legislative initiative to our parliament. i would like to conclude by thanking my shadow rapporteurs for the excellent spirit of cooperation with which they have worked and by hoping that tomorrow, also taking into account the many compromises we have reached, the vote will be largely positive and shared. this vote tomorrow will not be the only one. i would therefore like to add a few words on behalf of my group on the other reports we are voting on tomorrow. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, mr spinelli and mr pagazaurtundúa ruiz, on the excellent work they have done on the lamassoure report, for which i am the shadow rapporteur. i would like to acknowledge the excellent compromise work done by the rapporteur. he was particularly good at stressing the need to make the use of enhanced cooperation more flexible. they are a fundamental instrument for improving the construction of europe, where we cannot find a compromise that will bring the 28 member states together. mr president, i have six minutes, so i was going along with it.
the reporter. i said that the report also stresses the need to involve parliament at all levels in the creation and development of cooperation. i can only share and fully welcome this idea, because our parliament is a place of innovation and institutional momentum. i think that these reports and the others we are going to discuss, including the very interesting one by mr schöpflin, show how much attention parliament pays to institutional matters, but how little the council does. i do not mean the commission, the commission is always very attentive to our proposals, the council is much less so, and i think that is one of the major democratic problems of our union.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to explain the basic objectives which i pursued in the long work on the report on the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. there is one point on which i have particularly insisted, and that is that the union must not take a passive attitude towards the rights enshrined in the charter, it must not merely prevent any violation of these rights, but must actively work for their promotion, that is, for their systematic and preliminary incorporation into all the measures and decisions adopted by the union. this is not just an obligation under international human rights law, but a duty expressly enshrined in the charter itself. the charter has certainly represented a turning point in european integration, but its adoption cannot and should not be regarded as the final goal. the charter is evolutionary in nature, influenced by international law and the case law of the court. the full realization of the rights enshrined in it is the objective to be pursued constantly. i am not saying this by chance, i am saying it because i am convinced that the crisis in the union is too wide and the gap between citizens and the european institutions is too deep for the situation not to be assessed from the point of view of the citizens themselves, their discontent, their feeling that their rights are being ignored. in many european policies the rights listed in the charter do not have the space formally granted to them by european law, as well as by the case law of the court of justice. they are often ignored, especially when social rights and the relationship between them and the requirements of competitiveness in the single market are at stake. the rights of those who enter and reside in the territory of the union, irrespective of whether they are irregular or regular, and who are therefore part of our legal system, are also ignored. hence my call for systematic prior and ex post impact assessments of rights whenever policies are adopted in crucial areas such as economic stability policies, especially in the eurozone, trade policies and agreements with third countries signed by the union, migration policy. these are issues which are already partly in the report, but which i am proposing again in some of the amendments for the plenary, both on so-called economic governance and on refugees and migrants, whose right to non-refoulement we are required by law to respect. the aim of this text is to clarify the role of the charter by highlighting the difficulties which continue to arise in its full implementation. the stress test is a tool used to test the strength of banks. we should also start using similar tests for the enforcement of fundamental rights. i want to give you ideas and proposals which should not be controversial and which can consolidate the solemn promise made to our citizens by adopting the charter as the union's legal basis and an indispensable complement to the treaties. the promise to build a community founded on respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent changes in the legislative process have made it necessary to strengthen parliamentary control procedures. however, the european parliament is not making full use of its instruments of political control of the executive for a number of reasons, some relating to the institutional structure of the union, others to changing interinstitutional dynamics. in the absence of loyal cooperation by the council, institutional practice does not in fact allow for adequate budgetary control, leading to a serious breach of the treaty obligations. i agree with mrs bresso's proposal to open negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament to ensure that parliament has the right to access all information relating to the implementation of the council's budget. i also believe that the council cannot avoid answering written questions from parliament or participating in hearings and discussions on the implementation of its budget. in the absence of such cooperation, i think that parliament should only grant discharge to the commission, ensuring that no section of the union budget is followed up without proper control.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tomašić, i would like to remind you that most of our countries have ratified this treaty twice - the first time as a constitutional treaty, the second as the treaty of lisbon - and that your country joined the european union by ratifying it. so its legitimacy is unquestionable, and it is a serious folly to question it constantly as you do. i think that the lisbon treaty offers many tools to make the functioning of our institutions clearer and more transparent. and each of these relationships goes in this direction: to make the functioning of the institutions more democratic. in particular, in the report i have before me, we are very much faced with the need to take account of the complexity of the european para-federal system, and therefore with a vertical control problem, because there are many executive bodies and the commission alone is not the executor of all the activities related to directives and regulations, but also horizontal ones. the subject, for example, is the enormous role played by the agencies, which parliament has little control over, except in terms of budget. so the problem of avoiding the accusation that the european institutions are overburdened with bureaucracy also arises from this, from the impression that citizens have that this control is ultimately a bit elusive. it escapes the main executive which is the commission, it escapes parliament, it escapes even more probably the council, and it is increasingly complex. i therefore believe that we should do a better job of ensuring greater transparency, clarity and control, or those who will be in office in the next term will have to do so.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by stressing the crisis of the last decade. it has accentuated the commission's powers of direction which in many member states are not always considered legitimate and democratic. it is a question of restoring this legitimacy, which is very fragile without a more systematic reference to the charter. commissioner malmström once said that in negotiating ttip, the european executive could not take into account the objections from civil society. he said: "i have not received a mandate from the european people". of course, this makes the institutions seem distant, hostile to movements from below. the challenge of sovereignty must be met by a sovereignty which is shared, yes, but which is based on the demands of the various peoples to have their social and civil rights respected. if we do not take this into account, if we create a confrontation between sovereignty-seekers and europeans for electoral purposes, we will inevitably fall into the theological rather than political language of donald tusk, according to which there is a special place in hell for those in britain who negotiate badly to leave the union. we will forget that at the heart of the brexit issue are rights and european primary law, as my colleague julie ward has explained very well, not some kind of universal judgment made in history and made before its time.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 february 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on a draft european parliament regulation laying down the statute and the conditions for the performance of the ombudsman's duties (statute of the european ombudsman) and repealing decision 94/262/ecsc, ec, euratom (2018/2080 ((inl)) (a8-0050/2019). as i do not yet see the rapporteur in the chamber, i now give the floor to vice-president frans timmermans on behalf of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation updating the statute of the european ombudsman is an example of this parliament's commitment to guaranteeing european citizens greater transparency and good administration, two fundamental rights enshrined in the charter. the most significant aspects of the new statute include provisions to ensure the link with the future european public prosecutor's office, where the ombudsman's inquiries should reveal offences against the financial interests of the union. the protection of financial interests, including the fight against fraud and corruption, must be an integral part of the right to good administration. it is also important in this respect that the new statute of the ombudsman specifically calls for the protection of whistleblowers, so as to enable officials who become aware of cases of corruption and fraud within the institutions and agencies to bring them to light without fear of retaliation. i believe that this will help to combat these phenomena, to the benefit of the institutions and the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the disproportionate use of force against demonstrations and laws against freedom are spreading in the member states and we must deal with them, even though it is the responsibility of the states. we addressed this in a 2002 resolution deploring the suspension of the rights of protesters against the g8 in geneva. when mutilation weapons, lbds, grenades are used, it is clear that european rights are being violated. i am thinking of the articles of the charter on the right to bodily integrity, freedom of assembly and expression. the rule of law is not just about observing the laws, it is also about protecting those rights. these weapons must be banned in europe. the words used by the french government to describe the gilets jaunes, casseurs, factieux, brutes protesters echo the accusations of violent sedition against catalan political prisoners and scream with our legal order.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, wolves, bears, the big predators are under attack on many fronts. the attack culminates in the shameful demand that they be removed from the protection afforded to them by the habitats directive. among those who want to kill the wolf are hunters and farmers who are increasingly turning from words to deeds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not only a success, but also a success. culling is not the answer, and studies show that prevention is far more effective. in addition to not reducing attacks on livestock, killing natural predators such as wolves and bears is an act that disrupts the ecosystem, increasing the number of ungulates and wild boars, which in turn interfere with agricultural activity. in addition, there are non-cruel ways to live with these animals, such as the use of sound or visual deterrents, or even the use of trained dogs. i am convinced, as commissioner vella has said, that large predators enrich the territories in which they are present, and i am thinking, for example, of activities such as wolf watching and the various projects co-financed by funds such as life. i conclude by reiterating the message recently launched by the minister for the environment, sergio costa, a strong and important message that must cross italian borders: wolves and bears don't touch each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the positive trend in the populations of species considered to be at risk in the union shows that the habitats directive is delivering all the desired results in terms of safeguarding biodiversity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species of fish. we can no longer afford to attribute such damage to the mere side effects of an otherwise positive phenomenon, such as the re-colonisation of these species. in addition to cruelty to farm animals, each attack has economic consequences which often endanger the livelihoods of those operators who, despite the many difficulties, continue to avoid abandoning entire territories. we need a european action plan, commissioner, which is no longer deferred, and which enables us to identify concrete and immediately applicable actions in order to combine our ambitious objectives in terms of biodiversity with the safety of farmed animals and the economic survival of our farms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first of all like to express my regret that the left wing of this house, the social democrats and the greens, have managed to prevent a request for an oral answer on this subject and also to prevent the resolution. so the theme of "wolves and big predators" is probably to be softened a bit during the pre-election period anyway. the fact is that we have had legislation protecting the wolf and other predators since 1992. but back then, the situation in europe was very different: in europe at that time - or at least in the european union at that time - wolves were indeed close to extinction. today we have 20,000 wolves and they are causing increasing problems. the regions and the member states need more flexibility. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to take action here. you promised it many times, but nothing happened. what particularly concerns me is that your services are currently working on so-called guidance documents, to the exclusion of the public and certainly to the exclusion of this house, which will not bring more flexibility, but less flexibility. at least here you should look past it and prevent us from making the problem bigger than it already is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the economic situation in italy in recent weeks, the criticisms we in the democratic party have already expressed about the origins of the economic manoeuvre presented by mr conte are clear. the italian economy is stagnating, with a growth outlook cut from 1% to 0.2%, industrial production has collapsed to -5.5%, and unemployment is rising. we are still sailing by sight, not realizing that the social fabric of the whole of europe is at stake. austerity, which was created to defend the interests of the few at the expense of the many, has allowed populism to grow stronger. today populists risk undermining the european project to its foundations. in a few months we will be in the electoral campaign and i, in my college which includes campania, puglia, calabria, abruzzo, basilicata and molise, will not tire of repeating that europe must be changed, but with proposals that are feasible a minute later: less austerity, more social europe, more investment, more erasmus for professionals and structural reforms in the economic field of the organization of the institutions... (the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda includes the report by elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision no 1313/2013/eu on a union civil protection mechanism (com ((2017) 0772 - c8-0409/2017 - 2017/0309 ((cod)) (a8-0180/2018).
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are writing a beautiful page in the history of our european union, and i would like to thank all those who have worked to achieve this result, starting with the rapporteurs, but also the whole of parliament, which has shown its flexibility, its ability to look at the concrete purpose of this mechanism, of this reinforcement of the european civil protection mechanism, and has also managed to overcome some of the reticence and procrastination of some states which were a little worried and saw in this reinforcement of civil protection a kind of interference by the european institutions. this is a very different and distant feeling from that of the citizens, who, on the other hand, continue to say through eurobarometer that they want civil protection and want to see europe and the european institutions at their side when they are faced with a catastrophe that their local and national authorities cannot cope with alone. experience has shown that this is so. unfortunately, we have seen with the fires, especially in portugal and greece in the summer, where we have suffered the loss of hundreds of lives, in addition to the enormous economic damage, that europe, despite already having a civil protection mechanism, was not able to deal with more disasters at the same time. and so today we say that we have succeeded, a little over a year after the commission's communication - and i thank commissioner stylianides for his sensitivity and readiness - in having the instrument we needed, we have resceu. what is resceu? it is a new instrument that will be made up of additional resources to those already existing and already belonging to the member states, because the purpose of resceu is precisely to enhance and strengthen the response capacity where it is needed. it is not just that, of course, because we are strengthening prevention and preparedness, there is a european union which stands by its member states to help them cope with disasters, whether natural or, as could unfortunately happen, also incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances. i would like to remind you that fire prevention is also very good for the environment, because there are studies that show that fires cause 20 percent of the world's co2 emissions. so there are many aspects that we touch with this strengthened mechanism. let me also mention, as an italian, a man who left us on 26 january, mr giuseppe zamberletti, who for us italians is the father of italian civil protection, and in some way, in a transferred sense, also becomes the father of european civil protection. i would like to dedicate this day, this work, to him, if i may, commissioner, and since we have also set up, in addition to a kind of erasmus, because it is important that the cooperation which already exists between the states is even more widespread and that there is a common european training standard, so this too will be an important instrument, of recognition for people who have distinguished themselves in the various countries of the union with regard to civil protection, i would not mind if we could start by recognising this great man for this role. he has never failed to give us his advice and support, and i think that from heaven up there today, he too is sending us a smile for this great achievement for all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after long negotiations, the decision to strengthen the european union's civil protection mechanism, which was severely tested in 2017 and 2018 by forest fires, storms and floods, is finally coming to a vote. the european civil protection mechanism is currently a voluntary system, through which the union coordinates the voluntary contributions of participating states to a country that has requested assistance. the new legislation will help member states respond more quickly and effectively to disasters, including through more efficient sharing of civil protection resources. the resceu resource fund will be set up at the request of parliament to respond to situations where member states do not have sufficient resources to respond to a disaster and will make available to the states affected by the emergency aircraft to fight forest fires, high capacity pumping units, field hospitals and emergency medical teams. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
member of the commission. – mr president, when i started this initiative two years ago – frankly speaking, with a lot of reluctance from many of our member states – i knew that having more capacities is important. i knew that having more financial means is also important. i knew that having a better disaster-risk management framework is really important. but for me – and as i realise, for you – the most important thing that we have achieved with resceu is that we are making european solidarity stronger. we are making european solidarity more efficient, and we are making european solidarity more effective and more tangible, very close to our citizens. this is the most important thing. especially at this time, at which our common european project is, unfortunately, being questioned by many people, and in particular with very important european elections coming up, we are delivering on our promise to build a europe that protects and a europe that saves lives. it is a really big achievement, and thank you so much again for this. but my advice, because of a lot of experience through this common effort, is that this the first big step. we have to continue in order to upgrade the union civil protection mechanism in other fields, in particular the medical field. this is the next big step.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very pleased to hear the speeches of all of you, which really confirmed the unity of purpose and cooperation between all the political groups and all the members of this house, which is very important. i was also thinking about how far we have come since the last parliament, when the concept of prevention was introduced, which is now an integral part, if not even a priority, of civil protection. we have come a long way and that gives me optimism, and i thank the commissioner for mentioning the efforts to convince some states. there's also a kind of cultural modesty, let's say, in accepting that you need to be helped. i would like to remind you of the lesson we learned when japan was faced with the fukushima disaster: the country that was considered the most prepared in the world, was not prepared to face this huge catastrophe. so there shouldn't be this shyness. the europe that protects is a reality that is becoming ever stronger, because thanks to the commissioner's proposal and the work of parliament, and also of the council, we finally have an instrument that makes this europe safer. i am glad that we have also had the opportunity to put in place this transitional period which will enable us to be ready before next summer, because we have seen that the biggest disasters, those which have unfortunately recorded the incalculable number of human losses, occur precisely during the summer with forest fires. i would like to thank you all again, and after having dedicated this day to zamberletti, i would like to think of the hundreds of thousands of people who in all the countries of europe are working for the safety of us all: i want to thank all the people who work in civil protection, who work in the fire service, and the many, many volunteers who work for us in many, many countries. civil protection takes many forms - that is why we were unable to write a definition of civil protection in the last legislature - but the unity of intent and feeling is the same and will certainly be an important building block for the europe we like, a europe that protects, that protects, a europe that stands in solidarity with its citizens. thank you all again and good work on that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 february 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the implementation of directive 2009/128/ec on the sustainable use of pesticides (2017/2284 (ini)) (a8-0045/2019). mr guteland is not here today, so we'll hear mr dalli speak instead.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am delighted to attend today’s plenary session and to discuss the implementation of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. i welcome your own—initiative report, which will make a valuable contribution to our ongoing work on this very important topic. i want to start by stressing that we share common concerns and common goals – to protect citizens’ health, to safeguard the environment and to protect animal health – and we share these goals with europeans, who are becoming increasingly interested and engaged in how we produce food and want to ensure this is done in a sustainable way. this is very much the debate at the moment. let me remind all of us that the european union has a comprehensive package of legislation to regulate plant protection products. to place a product on the market, the relevant active substance must first be approved at eu level – the european food safety authority (efsa) and so on – and then the product, the so—called concrete pesticide, must be authorised at member state level. this is a rigorous and extensive process to demonstrate that products can be used in a manner which is safe for humans, animals and the environment. nonetheless, as your report identifies, european citizens demand more. this is why the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides was developed. it requires member states to adopt national action plans outlining their quantitative objective: targets, measures and timetables to reduce the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and in the environment. the commission has evaluated these national action plans. it summarised its findings in a report to the european parliament and council in 2017. you know that. this report concluded that, while national action plans represented a significant step towards the sustainable use of pesticides, there were also significant gaps in many, many areas. it indicated that member states needed to improve the quality of their plans. primarily, they need to establish specific and measurable targets and indicators as part of a longer-term strategy to reduce the risks and impact of pesticide use. the report also notes that, although integrated pest management is a cornerstone of the directive, member states have not set clear targets in this area or ensured its implementation. it is clear that we need to do more. let me assure you that i will not stop asking member states to do more in implementing this directive. my services are engaged in a series of actions to ensure this takes place. following the evaluation of the national action plans, my services wrote to all member states detailing their weaknesses and inviting them to address these in the revision of their plans. the commission has also conducted audits in member states to verify that the directive is being fully implemented. these audits serve two purposes. first, they are a tool to share good practices amongst member states. secondly, where member states have not met their obligations under the directive, they will help the commission to consider further actions based on their concrete findings. i am pleased to report that last month, member states voted in favour of a commission implementing directive to establish harmonised risk indicators. this will show trends in the risks associated with plant protection products. this implementing measure is now subject to scrutiny by the council and the european parliament – by you. i encourage you to look upon it favourably. i expect that these indicators will be calculated and published by the end of 2019. however, i should stress that i do not see the two indicators established under this directive as the end of a process. rather, they are the start of a more comprehensive suite of indicators to reflect trends in the risks associated with plant protection products throughout the eu. integrated pest management is a cornerstone of the directive. as you have noted in your report, member states to date have not converted integrated pest management principles into prescriptive and assessable criteria to monitor compliance. i am pleased to inform you that my services are organising a workshop in may to develop a toolbox to help member states to check implementation of this essential element. your report also notes the importance of low—risk active substances to achieve more sustainable agriculture. it is thanks to the combined efforts of the commission, efsa, member states and industry that the number of low—risk active substances continues to increase. these substances give farmers a tool to control pests while producing high—quality food in a more sustainable manner. while their adoption may not reduce the total quantities of plant protection products used, they have a more favourable toxicological profile. this will certainly help reduce the risk associated with these products. i also share your view that the sustainable use of pesticides should be integrated into the common agricultural policy. you will have noticed that such provisions were included in the commission’s proposal, and i would encourage your support. finally, five years have passed since member states adopted their first national action plans. they are now obliged to review and revise them where necessary. my services will present a second report to the european parliament and council on the implementation of the sustainable use directive later this year. it will analyse the revised national action plans and determine if weaknesses have been addressed. it will also summarise the experience gained by member states in implementing the national targets to reduce the risks and impacts of pesticides. honourable members, thank you once again for your report. i think we can all agree that the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides is an important part of a broader sustainable agriculture policy. two weeks ago we adopted a reflection paper on progress towards a sustainable europe by 2030. it notably called for a genuine change in the way we produce, transform, distribute and consume food. the full implementation of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides would very much help in this respect. i can assure you that my services will look very closely at the recommendations listed in your report. in many areas, as you have just heard, the commission has already taken action to address the issues raised. we are committed to ensure the full implementation of the directive and we will continue to work with member states so that this objective is achieved.
i thank the commissioner. we shall now hear the views of the political groups. we're a little late, so we're not taking blue-card questions at this stage.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i share the rapporteur's view that we need to reduce the impact of pesticides on the environment and on humans, on the one hand, and to actually improve national action plans, on the other, i believe it is essential not to create a direct link between the objectives set out in directive 2009/128/ec and the current new model for the implementation of the cap. the linking of the target to the reduction of pesticide use is not the model for implementing the cap. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the aid granted to the beneficiaries. if, on the one hand, the member states could benefit from a system which would seem to be more flexible in the application of the cap, on the other hand, i fear that the hypothetical radical change will greatly increase the level of bureaucracy, with the member states having to decline the objectives of the cap in the intervention strategy and then measure the results. i therefore believe that every effort should be made to increase the usefulness and effectiveness of the national action plans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this report is already a good one, because it protects human health on the one hand and the environment on the other from the risks associated with the use of pesticides. however, it could be improved, because one cannot speak of the sustainable use of pesticides without considering the entire life cycle of pesticides themselves, from their placing on the market to the setting of maximum residue levels in food. if we do not combat the practice of illegal and counterfeit pesticides, if we do not tackle the problem of imported products treated with pesticides, we cannot afford to tighten the rules on our producers, on our farmers, and at the same time allow products treated with substances banned in the european union to be imported, because this has a negative impact on our internal market and encourages unfair competition which destroys an entire production sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, i think we're all pretty much in agreement here: chemistry needs to be handled carefully. this is not just true of agriculture, for example, but also of medicine. we could have a debate about how careless we are with medication. but sometimes it's easier to point the finger at others. many things have been rightly said today. we need better access to integrated crop protection. we need low-risk pesticides, which means low-risk pesticides. i have, by the way, made a report on this myself in this house and also made suggestions on how to speed things up here. relatively little has happened in the commission in this respect. we need more research and development, including in public institutions. we need better application techniques, and we need more resilient plants. i would like to draw attention to one last point which has not yet been raised. we've been importing pests from overseas for the last few years. i think, for example, of the marbled tree bug or the cherry-pickle fly, which then causes tons and tons of chemistry because they have to be fought. if we were a little more careful at the borders of europe, we could save a lot of money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's approval of the resolution of the pest committee was a significant step towards the effective implementation of the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, which provides for the authorization of only harmless pesticides, that is to say, those which do not cause any harm to man, animals or the environment. however, a high level of protection cannot be achieved without proper implementation of the sustainable pesticides directive, which is intended to be the tool to help farmers reduce their dependence on pesticides by replacing them with sustainable alternatives and agro-ecological practices. particular attention should be paid to the protection of vulnerable groups, given the current lack of protection for residents in rural areas. this is the direction taken by amendments nos 24 and 44, which follow a round table discussion i organized with my colleagues guteland, andrieu and poc, and which call on the commission and the member states to immediately ban the use of pesticides near homes, schools, playgrounds, nurseries and hospitals.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution to the important discussion of these months of work. i 'd start with a fact: in 2017 alone, global water withdrawals were about 6,000 cubic kilometers, and are expected to double by the end of the century. clearly, there is a problem of increasing global competition for the supply and use of water resources, which will have an impact on the economy, the communities and the ecosystems on which these communities depend. so on the one hand, the increase in demand, on the other, the increasingly evident effects of climate change, put us in front of the possibility that areas with drought problems may increase. this is why the issue of proper and efficient management of water, which is rightly increasingly considered a precious but scarce commodity, is becoming more and more pressing. let 's get this straight . europe is not an arid continent, but security of supply is currently a concern for at least half of the population of the european union. again, forgive me if i quote some figures. water scarcity is a phenomenon that already affects at least 11% of the european population and 17% of the territory of the european union. since 1980, the number of droughts in europe has increased and the severity of the events has increased, with costs estimated at eur 100 billion over the last 30 years. the drought of the summer of 2017 alone has once again highlighted the scale of the economic losses we are talking about. these, as highlighted by the commission's impact assessment for the italian agricultural sector alone, for example, amounted to some eur 2 billion. this trend is set to continue. water scarcity is no longer confined to a few areas of the continent, particularly in the south, but is a concern for the entire territory of the union. it is up to us to find appropriate solutions at european level to maintain the well-being of citizens and, of course, to preserve the environment. the starting point must be to extend the principles of the circular economy, on which we have based the new development model in europe, also to water resources, by promoting first of all their conservation and reuse through a specific legislative instrument capable of creating that regulatory stability that favours investments in this sector, which are very important for making the system more efficient. the water framework directive already exists, which mentions the reuse of urban waste water as a supplementary measure for efficient water management. however, we must be clear that there is no clear legislation and no clear rules to ensure that the benefits of this activity are fully exploited. according to data provided by the european commission, the total potential for water reuse by 2025 is 6.6 billion cubic metres compared to the current 1.1 billion cubic metres per year. this is an impressive data, which shows us the potential that we have in front of us. for this reason, the envi committee supported the regulation as proposed by the commission and in the context of the circular economy action plan by a very large majority. the commission proposal aims to achieve the objectives of the circular economy by defining harmonised rules at eu level that create the same high food safety conditions for agricultural products traded in the union's internal market. as the envi committee we shared the commission's general approach, which makes use of the experience gained from specific national legislation such as italian, french and even spanish legislation. however, as a parliament we felt it necessary to make some changes to make this legislation clearer, in particular on the definitions, roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved and on the main risk management activities. to give a brief overview of the specifics, we thought it important to define more precisely the main actors involved in urban waste water recovery operations. for this reason, the distribution system operator and the operator for the storage of reclaimed water are listed alongside the operator of the treatment plant, the operator of the reclamation plant and the end user. as regards the minimum requirements for reclaimed water, we agreed with the parameters proposed by the commission, based on the jrc study, but we felt it necessary to include the salmonella parameter further to ensure even greater food security for citizens. particular attention should also be paid to the need for awareness-raising measures which highlight, firstly, the importance of saving water use and, secondly, how the reuse of urban waste water does not harm human and animal health. today's vote will close the first reading of parliament. i am sure that the council will be able to reach a common position in a short time which will enable the new parliament to open negotiations as soon as possible and see this important legislation passed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be committed to protecting the health of our citizens and the environment. we have a duty to leave a cleaner and better world for future generations. but this must be done with thoughtful longterm solutions, not with sporadic witch-hunts and easy shortcuts which do not solve the problem and only damage the competitiveness of our companies. one third of the territory of the european union is subject to water stress conditions. reusing water is not the answer to all problems, of course, but it is a first step in that direction. the reuse of water for irrigation purposes can be achieved at a rate of about 6.6 billion cubic metres per year. the agricultural sector, which is vital for europe and italy, needs new measures and actions to ensure future sustainability without increasing costs for farmers. we need to act pre-emptively so that water reuse legislation provides uniform rules for all countries and harmonised criteria at eu level. the safety of citizens must be guaranteed and the recovery effort must be increased.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the territory of the european union is subject to water stress due to human activities and climate change. in 2003 alone, drought caused losses to the european economy of at least €8.7 billion, and between the 1980s and the 2000s the number of people affected by drought increased by almost 20%, with total costs reaching an astronomical €100 billion. not only, as has been said by my colleagues, does this happen in the dry season and in the mediterranean countries, but extreme drought, which is being intensified more and more by climate change, is also increasingly affecting northern europe. there is no doubt that water as a common good and a precious resource must be managed more efficiently and that water conservation must become a priority at all levels. common rules to stimulate water reuse in the circular economy can therefore only be welcomed and the water reuse regulation therefore presents an opportunity that europe must not miss. we have been involved in the definition of minimum requirements for the quality of reclaimed water, emphasising the need to ensure its safe reuse. for us, there must never be any risk to soils and crops, no room for microplastics and endocrine disruptors. we have proposed decisive action on this, because these should be absent, both from the waters that flow into rivers and seas, to put an end once and for all to the enormous damage to biodiversity that we are doing globally, and of course to the reclaimed waters that are the subject of this regulation, so that their reuse can be allowed. finally, i would like to mention toxic and dangerous substances such as pfas. these should never be found in the water that is poured into the fields, nor should they enter the food chain and endanger the health of the citizens. so in conclusion, i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this important regulation. in two words: yes to water reuse, no to health and environmental risk factors.
member of the commission. – madam president, once again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms bonafè, on her success in drafting this report, and also to welcome the support and the ideas expressed by the members of this house. the commission has closely followed the discussion and will examine in detail parliament’s proposals with a view to the next steps in the legislative process. i would like, however, to make two or three points. with regard to the issue of polluted soil, we do have the nitrates directive to protect our soil, and the commission is following the implementation of this directive very closely. it is, at least for me, hard to justify, or even to understand, how bad agricultural practices are still harming the very resources that sustainable agriculture depends on. another point i would like to make is that i feel we are, at times, underestimating the problem when we say that the eu is facing water scarcity. it is the whole planet which is facing this problem, and that makes the necessity to act now even more urgent. with regard to the scope of the proposed law – whether it’s limited to agricultural irrigation – i would point out that, of the various possible areas for water reuse, agricultural irrigation is the most widely used worldwide. as demonstrated in the impact assessment undertaken, water reuse for agricultural irrigation also has great potential in the european union but it is currently underutilised. while the commission agrees on the desirability of using reclaimed water for other purposes, the proposed rules do not exclude the possibility of member states’ using reclaimed waters for other purposes as well. we are confident that an agreement on the new rules can be found and that it will be possible swiftly to complete the legislative process for this very important proposal. once it has entered into force, the new instrument will facilitate the uptake of water reuse, helping to fulfil the largely untapped potential of this practice and also to alleviate the pressure of abstraction on surface and groundwater bodies – thus benefitting farmers, consumers and the industry. the commission looks forward to the forthcoming negotiations and stands ready to support the co—legislators in this process. i count, as i have always done, on your support in the vote, and i thank you once again for your commitment to this proposal.
member of the commission. – madam president, yes, i think the honourable member has a point. i think various attempts were made to produce some sort of proposal on the way forward. we have been discussing this possibility. unfortunately, so far, we have not reached a conclusion, but i promise that i will give it another try. i think the honourable member is quite right on this.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his words of caution on this subject today, but i must say that he has also spoken in the past months and since taking office. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have spoken, not only for the work they have done in recent months, but also because their words today show support, i think i can say, almost unanimously or at any rate very broadly, for the proposal we are discussing. because it has not escaped anyone that water is a precious commodity, very precious indeed, and we cannot afford to waste even one cubic metre of it. well, then, the extension of the principles of the circular economy on which we have based the development model in europe, also to water resources. i would remind you that the principles of the circular economy state, first of all, that there must be savings in the use of water resources, but then also reuse. reuse in agriculture, reuse for civilian use -- i think of street cleaning -- but also reuse for industrial use. of course, of course, taking into account and keeping in mind the respect of the criteria for human health. so we are faced with the phenomenon of climate change, which, if we do not act quickly and decisively, will cause us great problems and serious difficulties for our economic system as well. so let us move forward with the efficient use of water resources, with clear rules such as those we want to adopt as soon as possible, but also with investments in the sector, because efficient use of water also requires major investments.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the single market programme brings together six existing programmes and provides for substantial new resources to strengthen the functioning of the single market. this is the funding allocated at european level for the 2021-2027 programming period, in order to support the competitiveness of industry, in particular micro, medium and small enterprises, to ensure the safety of the food chain and the health of people, animals and plants, to enhance consumer protection, and to establish the framework for the financing of european statistics. the position we have reached is very ambitious and calls for an overall increase in the total financial allocation to 6 billion, of which 3 billion is devoted to the cosme programme, which is aimed at small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economic and productive system. specific resources dedicated to strengthening market surveillance and product safety activities, with a particular focus on products sold online. finally, the introduction of delegated acts for the implementation of the programme for a stronger role of control and supervision by the european parliament. with the text we are about to adopt, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is taking a clear and ambitious stand in favour of the european production system and the european citizens. we hope that the council will do the same.
madam president, i have supported this report and i would like to thank parliament for adopting the amendments which improve the final version of the proposal. unfortunately, the fight against financial fraud, fraud affecting the financial interests of the european union, is not being fought successfully enough in all the member states, and it is therefore logical that the european parliament, the european institutions, should have an interest in ensuring that financial fraud, fraud against the interests of the union, is clearly and clearly detected and dealt with effectively throughout the european union. this programme is contributing to this, we are increasing the funds allocated to the administrative authorities, to the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. the money is needed to equip the authorities to deal effectively with fraud involving european money. i welcome the report and hope that it will help to make future statistics on the prosecution of financial fraud more positive for us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to stress one aspect of the european union which tends to leave me puzzled, and that is the total availability of aid to the roma, especially in terms of economic aid, in the face of a particularly delicate situation from the point of view of employment, which involves millions, tens of millions of unemployed people throughout europe and which, especially in the mediterranean countries, in italy in particular, sees situations at risk of a real social upheaval. i believe that parliament's attention, especially at this very delicate moment in which europe is living, must be directed to those who represent the foundations of our union, who represent national identities, and this is the effort which i hope will go in the right direction and not primarily in the right direction, but sometimes exaggerated, to protect the minorities who have a right to dignity on our continent, but who must certainly be integrated, because many times it is precisely from these minorities that the help does not come, the desire to be able to do what we ask, that is, the possibility of cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must repeat what i have said many times: i believe that the integration of the roma, which is a must, often takes precedence over the logic of need that so many millions of unemployed people in europe have, particularly in areas of italy where there is a risk of social unrest. it is an endemic problem, a problem which i believe europe must look at with extraordinary attention and which is often not considered in its full significance. the rights which these people often do not fully exercise are in conflict with the duties, which must take precedence over what integration requires. so the economic resources that are made available must go in that direction. i think that priority should be given without any doubt to those who are currently unemployed, are looking for work and need to find it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in syria is still far from being resolved and in a few weeks the third conference on syria will be hosted by the high representative. we must support the need to relaunch the geneva peace process on the basis of un resolution 2254 by establishing criminal responsibility for the war crimes committed in these years. at the same time, europe must strengthen its role as a humanitarian actor by really investing in the long-term resilience of the syrian people, which has not been done enough so far, by engaging more with civil society, including by involving it more in the organisation of the conference, and by supporting extraordinary projects such as operation dove, which builds humanitarian corridors and supports syrian refugees in lebanon, for whom a gradual system of safe return would need to be seriously organised. i would like to add, in conclusion, a word on the matter of father paolo dall'oglio, a renewed hope for his life. his work for interfaith dialogue is extraordinary and known throughout the world. we ask that you renew your commitment to his release so that he can return soon to bring his great message of peace.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in bosnia, as this report also makes clear in a clear and honest way, is a metaphor for the enormous difficulties encountered on the long, difficult and difficult path to accession to the european union. we are faced with a country which has made very little progress since the process began. and we can also ask ourselves whether this european union, with its limited horizons, mainly economic and financial, has done all that was necessary to do, or, i would say, to rise to the occasion, to lead these peoples and situations, these countries whose complexity, due to the historical reasons that we all know well, puts them, and its own geopolitical position proves to be, force it to be at the crossroads of problems and even dangers. and as far as the dangers are concerned, we cannot but stress the seriousness of the risk of infiltration by foreign fighters, and therefore by fighters of islamist terrorism. this is a very serious danger.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 february 2019. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. bosnia today seems to be stuck in limbo: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. on the other hand, a policy of 'preserving' the status quo based on a complex institutional architecture dating back to the dayton agreements of 1995 and on enduring ethnic divisions and rivalries. this is well demonstrated by the results and procedures of the recent "general" elections held on 7 october, without the legal loopholes being filled and the necessary changes to the electoral law - as identified by the constitutional court and the european court - being made, despite the intervention of the eu and us ambassadors in bosnia and herzegovina, and the participation of the venice commission. despite the formal respect of the procedures and elections, which were defined as competitive and orderly, the problem of a state-system that violates the european convention on human rights remains. it 's obvious . the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
mr president of the council of ministers of the italian republic, thank you for accepting the invitation of the european parliament to present the italian government's vision of the future of europe. italy is one of the founding countries and we are very pleased to be able to start this debate with you on the great issues affecting half a billion people. as you know, the european parliament is very much involved in some of the issues of great interest to the citizens. we want to be the democratic heart of europe. we are the only institution elected by the citizens and we fought hard for an increase in the budget of the european union from 1.1 to 1.3, focusing on the question of own resources, we chose to commit ourselves with clear positions also on the question of immigration. parliament is in favour of more investment in the african continent to solve the problem upstream. on the question of refugees, the european parliament has for months now approved a proposal of its own which is on the council's table, and we ask you to play a leading role in the adoption of a text which we believe can ease the tension, especially in the southern countries of the union, the countries most affected by the refugee problem. on the issue of brexit, the european parliament is very much concerned about the protection of european citizens living in the united kingdom. we have voted for a substantial increase in funding for major infrastructure projects so that the european infrastructure system can be a growth-friendly instrument. as far as foreign policy is concerned, we are in favour of a common foreign and defence policy. we have recently chosen to ask the member states to recognise the interim president of venezuela, mr guaidó, on the basis of the venezuelan constitution. the last point, which concerns parliament - and i know that this is part of your government's programme - is that we want a european parliament that counts more, that has the power of legislative initiative like all parliaments of the kind and that also has the powers of inquiry, which under the treaty already exist but which it has not yet been able to exercise. mr president, i now give you the floor to explain your thoughts and those of the italian government on the future of the european union.
thank you, prime minister. before i give the floor to vice-president katainen, i would like to stress how important it is for us to involve the member states in the decisions to strengthen the powers of parliament. i have taken note of what you have said, as have all my colleagues. on immigration, we ask you to make a further commitment at the next council meetings to accept the european parliament's proposals, perhaps by finding some compromise on the dublin reform. i think i reflect the sentiment of this entire house.
before i give the floor to mr raffaele fitto, who will be speaking on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, i would remind the group chairmen that if they exceed the time allocated to them they will take it away from the members of their group.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the president of the italian council to this occasion. i think it is a very useful opportunity to discuss issues concerning the future of europe and the role of a country which, as you have said, and as all those who have spoken have said, is central to the construction of this europe and its prospects. i also think it is important to make an effort, in the sense that these debates are often likely to be very general, if not generic, debates, and to have very deep diagnoses, which are sometimes in contrast to the reality we live in. so my speech will be a speech aimed not only at sharing some of the very critical criticisms and assessments that have been made about what europe has represented in these years and about the enormous mistakes that this europe has made on economic issues and on issues like immigration - and i disagree with a lot of the things that i have heard in these recent speeches on these issues - but i think it is equally important to try to point out some elements of clarity. i will try to point out to you, even by giving very concrete examples, some strong contradictions, mr president, which i think must be answered, because at the moment when we are talking about immigration - which is one of the issues on which your government, especially at the beginning of this national legislature, has taken action which i believe is not negative as it is described, but rather useful in putting forward a problem forcefully and in solving it - italian fishermen are not at sea trying to save immigrants, but are protesting against what european rules are even with regard to some of the issues which concern them. i would like to close this parenthesis and say a few things very quickly. the first is on immigration. we agree, mr president. but on the global compact there is a picture of what is a total uncertainty about his government. you attended the un assembly, said you were in favour, then you didn't go to marrakesh and then you abstained. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must remember that at the meeting of the european foreign ministers, thanks to the dissent of italy, the only dissent, europe was not able to express a clear word in this direction. as in economic matters, what you have said is true in terms of analysis, but i am sorry, the consequences to which you refer are absolutely wrong. there are no structural reform choices in its development policies at national level, quite the contrary. i am not one of those who are alarmed because there is a risk of a slight increase in the deficit in a time of economic difficulty. the issue is how we raise it, what we raise it for. we are raising it for policies that increase public spending in a structural way, other than structural reforms. today is also a very important day, because we have already been reminded of it. while we are here, while you are talking to us about the development and growth of our country and italy's role in europe, your minister for infrastructure is presenting a fantastic report to explain to us that the tav is a mistake and must be blocked. these are the facts we are facing. i would therefore like you to give me clear answers on this, mr president, so that your conclusion can be put into practice, that is to say, that we can move from analysis, from words to deeds. and unfortunately, the facts are not going in the right direction for italy or for europe.
i would remind all the members who are speaking that this is not the italian parliament, this is not a debate on italy. it is a debate on the prospects of the european union to discuss italy's proposals. my political party does not support the conte government. i'm just trying to have a debate that isn't a debate about the situation in italy. you can say whatever you want, but i'll tell you what this debate is for.
i am convinced that what is happening and what will happen in italy is particularly relevant to the future of europe, which in my view is being pressed by two options, both of which are harmful and strongly interlinked: the continuation of neoliberal policies and the growing consensus of a reactionary black wave. the speakers of this group are committed to building an alternative to both of these options in the construction of a third space and an alternative for europe based on the self-determination of women, men and peoples. and it is precisely on the front of the possibility of countering the constraints of neoliberalism, constraints against which this parliamentary group fights every day in the name of an idea of equality, that we measure the betrayal of the electoral promises of this government, which is totally in favour of neoliberal policies. it has first bowed to the constraints on the deficit/gdp ratio, and has made no commitment to balance the budget in the constitution. on fair trade, which you mentioned earlier, prime minister, there is no position of the italian government on either ceta or the isds clauses. you have spoken of cohesion policy, and yet the italian government is about to approve differentiated autonomy which is the secession of the rich, the opposite of the cohesion policies which would be necessary to give an answer to the southern question as a european question. this government has given the green light to the transatlantic pipeline, which we have opposed as a parliamentary group. finally, he has launched a proposal for workfare, a proposal for a subordinate income, free work and 'anti-duty' rules which offend the dignity of millions of italian workers. twenty-one italians have the income of 12 million people, according to oxfam data, and yet you don't make a fortune. you flat tax, or reduce the progressivity of taxation and make no plan on the question of wages. no real opposition to neoliberalism. but it is not only on this side that this government is concerned about the future of europe. this parliament approved, on 25 october 2018, also following an attack in my city of bari by some militants of casa pound, a resolution urging member states to effectively ban neo-fascist and neo-nazi groups and any other foundation or association that exalts and glorifies nazism and fascism. i ask you, mr president, how the italian government intends to contribute to its implementation and how you judge the relations between the italian minister of the interior and the members of casa pound, an explicitly neo-fascist force. and i want to remind you, mr prime minister, that at the root of all fascism - hannah arendt teaches us this - is the process of dehumanizing the other, the same process that is at the root of the war on people and on migrants. i am proud to wear this sweater, the sweater i wore, as did other meps from other political groups, when i was at open arms, on the very days the european council was taking place. this is not a uniform, one of those which, if i may say so, are worn by some ministers of your government. this is a sign of solidarity. we received the news on open arms that italian ports were closed to those 59 people who had been rescued at sea. you referred to the conclusions of the european council confirming the agreements with turkey, the voluntary relocation, the control of flows. he did not, however, refer to the european parliament's position calling for a reform of the dublin regulation and a mandatory relocation process. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, which is a very good report. you have started a process of criminalization of ngos unworthy of a civilised country, mistaking those who help people for traffickers. so i ask you, prime minister, as mayor ada colau has asked, to stop the shameful policy of closing ports and blocking ngos. i ask you whether a minister who is being investigated for the kidnapping of 177 people can really think of showing the european union the future of immigration policy. finally, on 8 march, mr prime minister, throughout europe and also in italy, women, feminists, those whom you forgot to mention in your speech, will take to the streets. it is not by chance, and it is right, because when this government talks about women's rights, it does only negative things. i do not know whether you are aware that a delegation from the femm committee went to italy precisely to deal with the fact that the presence of medical objectors prevents the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. i do not know whether you are aware that places of women's self-determination such as the international house of women in rome and the space lumiere et sieste are under eviction. i do not know whether you are aware that women are asking for the ddl pillon to be scrapped, that women are asking for funding for the anti-violence centres, a self-determination income and a european minimum wage. it is from these proposals that the future of europe can really start. we will continue to be partisans, because to save europe from its shipwreck we must oppose these european policies, but also the policies of your government.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, mr katainen, commissioner, colleagues and president of the council, count. this is the 17th debate on the future of europe, and the risk is that while we are debating the future, the union will no longer even have a present. we continue to regard the europe we founded as our home. but the european union needs a profound restructuring, because it was built from the roof, forgetting the foundations. we want to give this house a solid, sure and lasting foundation. we want a europe that is fairer, more equal, closer to the people, without a- and b-series countries. we want the real economy to take precedence over finance again, we want more social rights, we want investment, growth and no more austerity! we want a europe that is a world player, not one that is brought to its knees by the great powers of russia, china and the united states. we want a union, not just in name but in fact. i ask you, does this mean that you are for or against europe? many people are in the habit of looking at the speck in the eyes of others, but they fail to notice the beam in their own eyes. to be a europeanist is to humiliate greece and the greeks, and then admit - as if nothing had happened - that austerity was a huge mistake? is being a europeanist to call for solidarity between states and then leave the burden of immigration to one country? does being european mean creating tax havens in one's own country? and then, to be a europeanist is to oppose with a stupid ideological war the introduction in italy of the citizenship income which - look at this - is a reality throughout europe? these are false europeans who have built europe, but the europe of banks and finance, of bureaucracy and austerity, far from the citizens. we still have time to change and we should take a cue from italy, where change is taking place today. in just seven months we have taken away the life insurance of former parliamentarians, compensated the defrauded bank savers, imposed the daspo on the corrupt, cut the golden pensions, lowered the vat tax on small items and started paying off 30 billion of public administration debts to entrepreneurs. finally, today in italy there is a citizenship income. we have dismantled the pension reform which europe, yes europe, had imposed on us under the name of the austerity accounts. i'm the shadow. you mentioned norcia. norcia needed only one thing: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the reconstruction of the former yugoslavia. that is what we promised the citizens and that is what we have achieved because we do what we say. the recent report italy 2019, published by the prestigious eurispes institute, records an increase in the confidence of italians in the government: 15 points more than last year. we are not surprised, because the government of change, listening to the citizens gives them a new hope for the future. that's why they accuse us of being populists. president conte, as you have already mentioned, if this means listening to the people, then yes, we are populists. but all too often, in this palace, locked in these cages, we forget to listen to the people. how many times have we asked you, ladies and gentlemen, to send a strong signal to the citizens, starting with the abolition of the double seating of this parliament? this facility, where we are today and occupy four days a month, costs 200 million euros a year, and has no reason to exist. and we are friends of the french, and i do not allow anyone to make any assumptions about our support for the violent or the "casseurs", especially since some have taken the liberty of calling our government a government of lepers. i ask for the cancellation of the waste of the double seat: this is not an attack on democracy, democracy is not a privilege! democracy cannot be a palace! we are beginning to cut our salaries, our pensions, the monstrous salaries of the commissioners, who are a real slap in the face to the citizens. we have already tabled an initiative on the privileged pensions of members of the european parliament. president tajani, please pay attention to our proposal, support our proposal! today, this has not been achieved, but we will do it, thanks to the vote of the citizens in the next elections and with the other forces of change. we have given an extraordinary team of pilots to the leadership of italy. now we will give an equally capable one to the leadership of the european union because, rest assured, as we are changing italy we will also change europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, welcome to the european parliament, mr conte, today you bring to the european parliament the extraordinary experience of the first real government of change in europe. a government which proudly claims the sovereignty of our country, a government which does not bow its head and has the courage to say no to the boyars of brussels, to say no to the impositions of berlin, to the grandiose mania of the little napoleon macron, a government which finally defends the interests of the italian people. in these months, the league and five star government has demonstrated with facts that change is possible. thanks to our leader matteo salvini, the wild immigration has been stopped. the security decree put an end to the illegal immigration business. with the famous 100 percent, we started to dismantle the fornero pension law. mr president, much good has been done, much more remains to be done. the autonomy of the veneto, the lombardy and the emilia romagna regions must be given. we need a big tax reform to cut taxes. it must be said clearly that maduro is a communist dictator who must be wiped out and that italy stands one hundred percent with the people of venezuela who want freedom. mr conte, we in the league are already at work, because after italy we want to change europe from top to bottom. and we will do so with the consent of the italian people, who will make salvini's league the first party in italy and the first party in all of europe in the european elections. enough with europe as a slave to the banks and the multinationals. enough of the europe of spreads and austerity. enough with the europe of juncker, merkel and macron, who want to rule our home and humiliate the italian people. in italy, the italian people are in charge, not merkel or macron. after the european elections we will have the strength and the numbers to build a new europe, the europe of the peoples and of freedom, a europe capable of defending our frontiers, stopping illegal immigration, protecting the made in italy, protecting our companies and our workers. president conte, we are convinced that our government will last a long time, because we all have a great mission to accomplish: we must defend our land against the bureaucrats in brussels and defend the freedom and sovereignty of the italian people. good work, president conte!
i would remind you that the choice of the seat of the european parliament is not the responsibility of this house, but of the member states which have signed a treaty. i am not going to go into detail about the reasons for this, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into detail about the reasons for this.
i now give the floor to the president of the council of ministers of the italian republic to answer the first questions put to him.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr danti, if you want to speak later, you can speak, but if you have to interrupt now, it is not worth it. the more time you waste interrupting, the less parliamentarians speak. give them a chance to answer and then you'll ask your questions.
let's start the debate with "catch the eye". we have to be done by 7:45 at the latest. there are more than 50 members who have asked to speak: the more you talk, the less others talk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. you spoke of democracy. you see, you are therefore an institution which is perhaps the most democratic, because we are directly elected by the citizens and we answer to the citizens every day, unlike you who have been appointed. i am proud to be italian. i'm with italy, but with italy in europe. in your opinion, was it a walk in the park to approve the 'made in italy' in this house? do you think it was a walk in the park to pass the dublin reform in this house, or the copyright? and we have not blamed anyone, we have worked, we have made alliances, those alliances that italy lacks, those alliances that are lacking in the european council. because, you see, you talk about europe, you talk about unity, and then you come here and say that you do not do the tav. perhaps even some of your government doesn't feel the same way, does it? you talk about dublin reform, but you yourself have approved the optional quotas, which we have said is absolutely wrong. so you go to the solidarity committee when you have the optional quotas? this is his mistake, and he must acknowledge it out of intellectual honesty. and another aspect, if i may. your video with chancellor merkel is a shame, because i love italy and i would never want a prime minister to speak badly of the italian government to a colleague.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, (out of the microphone)... to the new president of the council who, in passing, has restored dignity to a country, to a people who were not used to seeing their representatives coming to europe with their backs straight and reasoning as you have managed to do at a delicate stage, and we must give you credit for the great success you have had in risking the country's being put in a state of default, and in proving, instead, by the force of truth and facts, that ours is a large, hardworking country whose financial and economic fundamentals are the envy of other countries, which have often used the weapon of blackmail and political extortion, dealing with a political class, also european, which is rather subservient. i thank you for giving strength to the other component of your government, which had the aim - and achieved it - of showing this somewhat reckless europe that all these sermons about the impossibility of stopping the trafficking in human beings in the mediterranean were false and perhaps served rather obscure interests. this traffic's been blocked! i also thank you for the effort you mentioned of opening up to african countries, with whom we must speak with equal dignity. i would simply ask you to add to this effort the opening up and involvement of the small and mediumsized enterprises system in our country and in europe, only by planting the good seed of small and mediumsized enterprises and not, as was done in the past, with parties that interfered in africa and stole from africa. this must be done, this will be done by a serious government, a government of the people!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, you will have seen from the words and attitudes of this house how much esteem and expectation there is for italy and how much disappointment and concern there is for this italy which, objectively, has become weaker, has isolated itself, is in conflict with the founding countries with which it should rebuild the future and is allying itself with countries which are against the unity and solidarity which you have called for. i hope you have understood this intelligently, and i say this with concern, not with joy, because i want my country to be a protagonist in this europe and not an antagonist. i'll tell you something else, mr president: how can we trust his words, which fluctuate between big dreams and quotes? please, aldo moro, let's read it in full: he wouldn't have done what we did in the mediterranean. but that's not the real problem. she then falls into rebellion, into a demand. but where is the coherence you were calling for? where are the facts? so, you mention some things, i won't say that we did them, because italy is not born today in europe, but i will tell you how we behaved here. you will tell me if that is credibility, mr president, if that is consistency. you mentioned the funds for africa, but your majority voted against! he mentioned the billions in the juncker plan, but the parties who support it and the big parties voted against it! you mentioned the need for enhanced cooperation, but why is italy not taking part in the nine? you have spoken about the negative consequences of brexit, but do you know that the majority of the italian party supporting it is in farage's group? i beg you, let italy return, for its own sake, to the forefront of europe.
mr president, mr president conte, good evening, thank you for being here. i'll be practical. i should like to take the time to describe the effort that is being made here in the european institutions to obtain resources to be allocated to the best projects that are being carried out and proposed by so many european countries, including my own. i would like to take some time to tell you how we have tried over the years to build serious projects that bring together the connectivity needs of our country, the demands of our entrepreneurs. i would like to tell you all about this, and i would also like to tell you about the state of mind of those who do this work and then see their minister of infrastructure paying more attention to the chemtrails than to this work. so, in view of your government's repeated demands for patience, because in time the great capabilities of this government will be seen, i propose a provocation. many of the members who support it have often provoked the political environment with particular economic assumptions, especially on wages. all right, try this. if we're going to give back the resources that this country deserves, take a fixed rate mortgage because variable increases with the spread and returns out of your pocket the resources that we have so hard brought home for our country.
i have a question, dear president conte. since i do not see the union capable of becoming a community of solidarity and non-discrimination on migration or budgetary rules, since i do not believe that the income of citizenship, although indispensable in italy, overcomes the defects of the "hartz iv" subsidy now recognized in germany, since i see that the extreme right is taking over the five star movement, imposing its agenda on crucial points, i would like to ask you this, and the question is serious, because i fear the moment when the league will embrace right-wing forces that want the fall of the government, bring more and more closures and regime change in venezuela, i ask you: what forecasts, what studies of reality do you believe, as you said in an interview, that this year and the next years will be beautiful? thank you for that.
thank you, mr president. i will give it to you later, mr president, because it is long and tedious to summarize this list in a few issues. so, moavero is 8 out of 19, toninelli is 3 out of 4, tria is 2 out of 6, salvini is 4 out of 4. do you know what they are? the absence of italian ministers from meetings of the council of ministers. these are the absences of italian ministers from meetings of the council of ministers, when it comes to work, when it comes to young people, when it comes to industry, transport, even immigration! you never attend meetings, you apologize to the italian people! apologize to the italian people and to the people of europe! europe needs italy, italy needs a government that is present in europe! that's what he needs! that's the justification he was supposed to give today, president conte, but you're never here! i will close with a quote, mr president, you have made one and i will make one too. and the quote comes from the winning song of the sanremo festival, by mahmood: "it's hard to be in the world when you're not proud". contrary to what you go around saying, italy without is more pride: look at this empty chamber, mr. president!
i ask you to use language that is acceptable to this house, please. otherwise i shall be forced to take action against members who use language which is not in the interests of parliament. you got it? don't let that happen again!
mr president, mr president conte, you have rightly praised the importance of free movement, which i share, coming from the largest linguistic minority living in italy, close to the border. but his government has made a law, the so-called "security decree" - much discussed for other things like immigration, but i don't want to talk about this - according to which, if a student or a person who wants to work abroad goes abroad, buys a car and wants to return to italy, this car is confiscated at the border and has to pay 700 euros fine. do you think it is fair that such a measure is compatible with the great idea of free movement?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to remember that our country is in recession and, unfortunately, i have not heard, mr president, of industrial policy or trade policy, nor have i heard you speak of our enterprises. the trade agreements that are being implemented in europe mean made-in, import-export, growth of a country. i believe that italy today needs, i do not know if you agree, that taxation be reduced, that our companies be able to reduce the cost of labour, that they be able to benefit from tax relief and that subsidy policies be abandoned, which serve no purpose other than to provide some insight into how to combat poverty and inequality. i think it is important, therefore, that you, mr president, should emphasize this and give us an answer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, as some of our colleagues, and not only italian colleagues, have already said, we are working here on projects which have the ambition to do good for italy, but also for europe, and the mediterranean high-capacity transport line, which is not called turin-lyon, because it is not turin-lyon, is the line aimed at rebalancing the whole system of transport systems towards the south, which is intended to enable all the mediterranean ports to develop. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current line, which is totally inadequate, has one hundred and forty-nine, and in a year we will celebrate one hundred and fifty years. mr president, i think that if you learn to think like a european and not just take into account the small italian beguines, perhaps you will be able to tell us more in future.
president of the italian council of ministers. thank you, mr president, some of the speeches raised political issues. political debate is the lifeblood of democracy and is welcome, even if it is lively, even if the debate can be bitter. other speeches should not be commented on because they have obviously thought to offend not only the undersigned but the entire people that i represent. (applause) there were those who had the audacity - i say this with great serenity, president tajani - there was even a group leader, who therefore also has the responsibility of representing a group, who made a puppet of those who represent the italian people. i'm not a puppet, i can't feel. i interpret and i am proud to represent a whole people. i am proud to interpret the desire for change of the italian people and i am proud to summarize a policy of a government that is not a puppet because it does not respond to logic, to lobby, does not respond to business committees. maybe puppets are the ones answering to lobbyists, power groups and business committees. (applause) i have been told - and i think we are also leaving out the frank, bitter political debate - that i should be ashamed of a fragment of a conversation that was illegally eavesdropped on between me and chancellor merkel. i would remind those who have dared to publicly embarrass themselves on my behalf that there may have been a member of a party in the past who has much higher approval ratings than chancellor merkel. maybe they weren't ashamed then. (applause and laughter) i would like to mention again - and this is the third point - that i think is beyond the scope of a frank debate, although i am bitter that it has been said that my ministers do not participate in the european council of ministers, that is to say that my government is not represented in the european council of ministers. i am not the one who has to teach the grammar of the european institutions, but i would like to remind you that the government is also represented by an under-secretary, by a delegate, and we have always chaired european tables. do you understand? we've all been chairing european tables! i would remind you, then, to be even more frank and direct, that you are a member of a party which in the past did not preside properly over the ema affair, and we are still paying the consequences. (applause and cheers) how much, though, mr. president? (the president cut off the speaker to address the house)
i beg you all not to use any inappropriate language. we can say whatever we want, we can make whatever political argument we want, but the important thing is not to offend the other representatives, all of whom have been legitimately elected by the people, and not to offend the president of the council of ministers of the italian republic who has been invited here by us, he has not imposed himself. so i ask everyone to use more correct language, especially my fellow italians.
president of the council of ministers of the italian republic. thank you, mr president, but i come instead to the political questions that have been raised, some of them very interesting. i'm answering a specific question: i have been asked to support cyprus and greece. i would remind you that i was in nicosia on 29 january, where we also held a joint final press conference with seven other countries in southern europe, where we took specific positions and therefore support for cyprus was already there. as regards the other questions, however, things have been said which are shameful for italy, for example that we let children die at sea. but this is a lie of unheard-of gravity! it is a falsehood of unheard-of gravity. i said it before: we have a duty to inform each other if we speak in this house. i have said before that we have always intervened to ensure protection for the most vulnerable people, and in the most dramatic and urgent cases we have immediately taken women and children to safety, transferred them to other ships or disembarked them. if we have stood by our position, it is because we really want concrete solidarity, that europe should move from principles to deeds and that the other countries should also act accordingly. as regards the question of france, i have stated it several times: italy has a long-standing link with france, not only economically but also culturally. to think that the relationship between the two countries is being challenged by a single disagreement, by a single divergence, is something crazy. we are two systems that are culturally and economically integrated, so none of this. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. so we enter a dimension, that of political dialectics, where choices can be questionable, but they are legitimate. as for venezuela, something has been said here that is also blatantly false: italy is backing maduro, italy is not pushing for the presidential election, and i said there's no hurry. but all our statements are contrary. the maduro regime is not supported by italy at all. we have said that the whole of the european parliament has not recognised the presidential elections. we have not sent anyone, we have not endorsed at all, we do not believe that president maduro has democratic legitimacy. we demand free presidential elections as soon as possible do we write it on cubic signs? free, democratic and transparent as soon as possible, precisely because there is a population that is suffering. and we simply do not believe that this is achieved by siding with and elevating and recognizing as president someone who has proclaimed himself as such. we believe that this is actually slowing down the process which will lead to a rapid and democratic solution. the economic issue was raised again and we were asked why italy is not paying attention to an industrial policy, including a european one. we have recognized the importance of the juncker plan - i have said so myself - we have always supported the importance of an industrial policy for the european union, and we have also stressed the importance of a budget for the eurozone, also with a stabilizing function. we have been told, as we have always been told, that we should not be talking about economic and social policy. but be careful, but do we have to pay for economic policies of the past? it is perhaps a little too early to assess the effects of an economic manoeuvre which now contains measures which are yet to be implemented, which are still being implemented. in fact, i have argued that an economic recovery will develop in the second half of 2019 because, reasonably, our economic policy, our measures will not be able to be fully implemented in these very first months. and to think that we are not paying attention to production and the production system, to think that we are not engaging in the investment plan, is something - i said before - completely wrong. we are working on this, i will only say that yesterday, to give you an example, the undersigned was in three regions of southern italy, where economic growth is low compared to others, where there is no social development, to sign three development contracts: basle, molise and sardinia. this government has a very practical, pragmatic approach, and it absolutely tries to support economic growth with all the measures that it has implemented. even the citizenship income, you see, could be a purely welfare measure. there has been a lot of talk about this, and i mention this measure because it has catalysed a bit of public debate. this measure could have been a waste of resources, a welfare measure. it was actually conceived on the basis of a labour pact, a training pact and mechanisms for social inclusion to bring back to the productive circuit so many people - we are talking about five million poor people who will be directly affected - who are at this moment absolutely outside any social, productive, working mechanism, and therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of article 3 of our wonderful italian constitution, have no real possibility of participating in the economic, democratic, political and social life of our country. thank you, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr president of the council of ministers of the italian republic, for accepting our invitation. i apologize if i have sometimes used tones that are not my own, but the house is always lively and when the debates are lively it means that there is interest in the subjects at stake, especially as regards the future of our union. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr prime minister, i thank you for your kind words a short while ago, but above all for your presence here, which allows us to compare ourselves far from the disinformation hood of the italian context. you will have greeted the supporters of your government, my colleagues, in europe-oriented italy today, while they sit here in parliament with farage and the friends of le pen. and on this alleged ambiguity, which is only alleged to apply to italy, we shall vote to renew the european parliament. in the meantime, in the midst of the propaganda frenzy, italy is isolating itself and it is not clear how we want to be in this europe. from here, mr. president, it all seems pointless. you have made alliances with countries that will never give italy a hand on migrants, and you have deteriorated relations with france which has even recalled its ambassador from rome. some of your ministers are in solidarity with the most violent factions of the gilets jaunes in the homes of others and are crossing the border without respecting the procedures laid down for the heads of state. dear prime minister, where are we going? where are you taking italy, and with whom do you intend to build europe?
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the two rapporteurs, david martin and antonio lópez-istúriz white, for the good work they have done and the long journey that we have travelled jointly, which has brought us to where we are today. few places symbolise the benefits of trade and investments like singapore. singapore’s determination in embracing openness and globalisation has transformed a city state without natural resources into one of the most prosperous countries in the world and has helped its people prosper too. singapore has become a model of economic transformation and a prime example of how trade, investment and sustainable development can and should go hand in hand. embracing openness has served the eu well in the past, too, and still shines a light on the way forward as we discuss the issues facing us today. close partners for decades, the eu and singapore have decided to seal our partnership through the three agreements that we are talking about today and that you will vote on tomorrow. the new eu-singapore partnership and cooperation agreement will lay down the overall framework for bilateral political cooperation between two like-minded partners. but we are also very close investment and trade partners. singapore is currently our largest trade and investment partner in south-east asia and among our top 20 trading partners for goods, our top five for services and our top ten partners for foreign direct investment. the trade and investment agreements between the eu and singapore will provide a framework for these already strong flows to develop further. the benefits of the trade agreement are many. tariffs on bilateral trade will be removed. non-tariff barriers on eu exports for cars, electronics and renewables we’ll do away with. access to service procurement markets will be improved, and all this will create opportunities for businesses and for individuals on both sides. the agreement further contains a comprehensive trade and sustainable development chapter that includes obligations in relation to international conventions on workers’ rights and the environment; covers areas like biodiversity, eco-labelling and corporate and social responsibility; and gives a strong role to eu and singapore civil society groups in making sure that these commitments are put into practice. ratification of, and compliance with, international labour organisation (ilo) fundamental conventions will figure among priority items to focus and deliver on. we need to see sustained efforts in this respect, as of the agreement’s entry into force. and here already the singaporean authorities have shown good engagement in preparing for the implementation of the agreement’s sustainable development provisions. the trade agreement was also negotiated together with an investment protection agreement that contains the fully reformed investment protection system developed at eu level, which the european parliament requested and helped to shape – and i would like to thank you for this support. this system addresses the concerns civil society has expressed about vaguely defined rules, lack of transparency, absence of appeal, lack of independence of adjudicators and lack of accountability in bilateral investment agreements that we have today. so, delivering on the negotiating mandate, the commission has presented for consent an agreement that tightens the standards on investment protection so as to prevent abuses, an agreement that fully safeguards a government’s right to make new laws to protect health, the environment and other public interests. it thus establishes a fully transparent investment court system, a system which, in the very recent opinion of the advocate-general in relation to a trade agreement with canada, has been considered fully compatible with the eu treaties. that is a stepping-stone towards the multilateral investment courts that could potentially cover all 3 000 existing investment agreements worldwide and could play a central role in the future development of investment policy, including a possible evolution to include investors’ obligations, as mr martin mentioned. so these trade and investment agreements negotiated with singapore are state-of-the-art agreements with a privileged bilateral trade and investment partner to the eu. and, beyond being a partner, singapore is a beating commercial heart of the south-east asian region so, in that sense, the agreement will constitute a benchmark for negotiation with other association of southeast asian nations (asean) partners. lastly, on the partnership and cooperation agreement, this is, of course, a stepping stone towards enhanced political and economic involvement between the eu and singapore, as well as the whole region. it provides a basis, as the rapporteur mentioned, for effective bilateral engagement with singapore, strengthening the political dialogue and enhancing cooperation in a variety of areas – human and labour rights, justice, security, connectivity, people-to-people links, the information society, education and cultural exchanges, as well as employment and social affairs. it will enable us to step up scientific and technological cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, the fight against climate change, protection of natural resources, smart cities and transport. under this agreement, a joint committee will be established comprising representatives of both sides at an appropriately high level to ensure the proper functioning of the agreement and see that it is implemented. it will also set priorities and make recommendations to promote the agreement’s objectives. on regional dynamics, singapore has advocated regional multilateralism in south-east asia and is currently the country coordinator for eu-asean dialogue relations. we value that partnership very much and we are committed to ensuring that it will become even stronger. the collaboration with singapore on asean-related matters has been very fruitful so far. cooperation between singapore and the eu is already deep and wide today and, given the challenges that we are jointly facing, the potential for even greater engagement is significant – founded on a shared vision, a rule-based multilateral system and effective multilateralism. so thank you to the european parliament for the work that has been done here. we are looking forward to strong support in tomorrow’s vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. the european union, after the vacuum left by the united states, is establishing itself as the absolute protagonist on the global trade scene. our third way of doing business, as opposed to protectionism as it is to unbridled liberalism, has never been so attractive. through this partnership, we are able to project our standards and values globally. the clauses on the protection of workers, consumers and the environment help us to protect citizens from the side effects of globalisation. to name a few, i refer to the commitments singapore has made to ratify the conventions of the world labour organisation, to respect the paris climate agreement, but also to recognise our geographical indications, such as pdos and docs. not only that: we cannot forget that over 90 percent of global economic growth in the coming years will take place outside our borders. these agreements therefore provide a key outlet to support employment and growth. singapore is the gateway to the asean region in southeast asia, the world's most dynamic economic region: i am not talking about the big multinationals: over 80% of european companies in singapore are small and medium-sized enterprises. exports to singapore have generated 33 billion euros in turnover for our companies. the agreement, by increasing these numbers, will create thousands of jobs in europe and at what cost? no, singapore's economy is totally complementary to the european one: from industry to agriculture, no sector of our economic system is in competitive conflict with singapore. in the face of these facts, these figures, we must have no doubt: these agreements are crucial for european workers, whose products are sold and appreciated all over the world, and for citizens, who will receive greater protection against the possible negative side effects of globalisation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, corporations cannot be given the power to sue states. if you are running for this parliament, it is because, like me, you too firmly believe that you can make a difference for your citizens and if you want to continue to do so, if you want the decisions taken in this house to be truly independent, you cannot vote in favour of the investment agreement with singapore. this agreement is even worse than ceta and will allow big corporations to sue our governments, our regions, our municipalities. the laws we are going to pass here will no longer have any value because they could be dismantled by arbitration courts of unscrupulous lawyers, as soon as they touch the interests of the big economic powers. i believe in international trade and i always support it when it brings tangible benefits to our businesses: but we are not talking here only about trade, but about two different agreements, and we must distinguish them well: there is an investment agreement, which will allow corporations to sue states, and a full-fledged free trade agreement, which is all about exports and imports. the latter is certainly good for our economy: i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to extend the scope of the agreement to include the mediterranean. however, i would like to point out that these negotiations have been conducted with a certain lack of transparency and i would say that the commission has only briefed parliament on the problems of protecting certain geographical indications. for this reason, we will carefully consider how to react to these other nuisances. but one thing is certain: we will oppose the investment treaty because it contains that infamous special court, which allows only the actions of multinationals to be pursued, something we have already strongly opposed with ceta and we will continue to fight here as well. that is why the people voted for us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard how good and beneficial the eu-singapore free trade agreement can be. it seems incredible to me: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. the truth is that this agreement was negotiated in an era that is far removed from the present reality. singapore, as described in the proposed trade agreement, is a hub in the south east asian region. the real risk, ladies and gentlemen, is that the advantage of this treaty will be taken by other actors who are not part of the european union and who do not respect the parameters set for trade deals. statistics show that singapore is the third largest source of counterfeit goods in the world. there are no guarantees to combat this phenomenon, which is very common in asia and of which italian industry is one of the main victims. we risk opening the door to low-cost, low-priced products from malaysia, china or indonesia, which in singapore only see the last stage of processing. many doubts also remain about protected geographical indications. the system in force in singapore does not provide for the existence of a register. our geographical indications will not be automatically protected, but european operators will have to activate the procedures themselves. singapore is also a global financial centre and the mutual liberalisation of financial services is one of the main aims of the agreement, but it could make it possible to circumvent european regulations in this area. some employee associations place singapore on a grey list of global tax havens, and the agreement provides few guarantees about tax exclusion and profit shifting for eu-based multinationals.
mr president, commissioner, i want to express my great admiration for you for finishing the work on this free trade agreement. we should be a leader that supports free trade principles around the world unlike the current us administration. i'll just add one more thing. we should be more ambitious in the future in negotiating similar agreements and in short, shorten the negotiation time. i know that there was an opinion of the european court of justice and other circumstances for almost ten years, but let us really think about what we can do to make such agreements faster in the future. i personally hope that this agreement will lead to a multilateral agreement with the whole of asean in this area. so please, let's keep going, free trade is the ideology that the eu is going to spread in international trade around the world, and let's think about how to do this more effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of relations with singapore must certainly be seen in a positive light. it opens up a significant market area and offers the possibility of enhancing dialogue in the areas of human rights, the environment, climate change and taxation. however, the agreement we are discussing contains some of the dangerous measures i already highlighted in the ttip case: a form of isds, an instrument of public international law that grants a foreign investor the right to initiate dispute resolution proceedings against a foreign government. giving corporations the power to sue governments for protecting the environment, health and human rights is profoundly wrong. instead, we should replace it with a system that forces companies to pay for their violations of human rights and the environment, and right now. the eu-singapore treaty is only the first. it will be a model for future agreements in china, mexico and other major economies around the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final stages of this legislature and we want to draw the line. we have worked hard in the committee on women's rights and gender equality in the european parliament, but we are not satisfied because article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has not been applied in all member states. despite these efforts, the gender equality index compiled by eige shows persistent disparities, with only marginal progress from 2005 to 2015. this is a sad fact and shows that significant improvements are still needed in all the member states. and it is in work in particular that there is a substantial regression: women are particularly affected, unlike men. and the campaign against the istanbul convention is even more deplorable. on such an important subject there are still obstacles to definitions, and it is not clear how the council can still be faced with the rejection by some governments... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a contradiction on this continent: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i am referring to my country, for example. i do not know whether the commissioner is aware that in september we, as the femm committee, audited a number of feminist spaces, spaces for women's self-determination, such as the lucha y siesta women's house, the international women's house. spaces that are under attack by local institutions, spaces that are not recognised and that have been recognised in this parliament through the gender mainstreaming report. in italy, the presence of objections, as the femm committee itself was able to find in a delegation, is an obstacle to voluntary termination of pregnancy. we have the pillon case challenging family law. in italy, there is a backwardness in women's rights that the strike of march 8 will once again bring to the fore.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, every day thousands of women are fighting the battle against the disease of the century, cancer. they do this while bravely continuing to care for their families, while trying to keep working through it all. we are calling for easier and cheaper access to diagnostic and preventive tests and treatment for them and for everyone. the figures eurostat gives us every year are alarming: one in three europeans will develop cancer during their lifetime. some 600 000 european women die of cancer every year, of which over 90 000 are from breast cancer, as well as from uterine and cervical cancer, to name just a few. we know that cancer is devastating to everyone, men, women and sadly also children, but it must be recognized that when it strikes us women, it often strikes us in our femininity, attacking our bodies and depriving us of those parts that physiologically make us feel female, such as the breasts or the reproductive system, and from which arise enormous psychological repercussions that are often sidelined or underestimated in comparison to the severity of the disease itself. compared with the numbers of those fatally affected by the disease, fortunately many more are women who manage to overcome it. over 80% of european women with breast cancer, for example, survive after treatment. and it is these women too that we must protect, them and their families. after the illness, in fact, their lives change radically, whether due to invasive treatments, such as radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or as a result of the surgeries they are forced to undergo, with devastation not only physical - think of a hysterectomy or a mastectomy - but also psychological. we therefore urge the european commission, in conjunction with the member states, to put in place health policies and programmes which take account of a much wider range of aspects behind this terrible disease. there are three main points i would like to make. the first is the aspect of prevention, monitoring and access to care. there is no doubt that the high mortality rate from cancer is due to the fact that it is often intervened at an advanced stage of the disease, rendering all possible treatment futile. we know that if a disease is diagnosed early, the cure rate is much higher. prevention is essential through constant and affordable monitoring, including from an economic point of view, with both generic and specific screening. prevention is not always easy to implement, as the monitoring visits are often costly and the waiting times are very long. we therefore urge that work be done on this issue to protect the health of all. the second aspect is related to the specificity of the care needed in the event of women's illness. we are talking about cancers that affect exclusively female organs, such as the breast or the uterus, and that can go on to infect the femininity of the woman herself. the treatment must take into account that it is an intervention on organs and parts of the body which represent our femininity and should, as far as possible, take into account the aesthetic aspects as well as the functional ones. the last aspect, but this is the one i would like to focus on, is the psychological and welfare aspect. this is linked to the need to ensure adequate support and assistance for women. at a time when women's bodies are being attacked to fight disease and surgical operations are permanently impairing the most essential parts of our femininity or our reproductive capacity, often irreversibly, psychological assistance, even in the post-operative period, is absolutely necessary and must become a right of all. leaving these women alone means making it much more difficult for them to carry out their roles as mothers or wives, roles that certainly do not end with the illness. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to work towards a uniform european strategy for all member states, through cancer screening programmes, combined with increased investment in both research programmes and health infrastructure.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, allow me to say a few words in the meantime about the fact that these two questions, which will probably close the work of this legislature, are also the completion of a work done with the many colleagues in the lgbti intergroup of the european parliament, and so this fills me with pride. the european parliament, through this resolution, mr president, intends to call on the commission to ensure that the rights of lgbti people are given the highest priority in the work programme from 2019 to 2024. it is crucial to ensure a comprehensive and strong follow-up strategy of the list of actions to further improve the protection of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, and to promote equality. lgbti rights are not yet uniformly protected across europe. unfortunately, the european union does not yet have comprehensive protection against discrimination based on gender identity, sexual orientation or sexual characteristics. homosexual unions are not yet recognised in all member states, sterilisation is a requirement for legal gender recognition in eight member states, and 18 member states require a mental health diagnosis. intersex children are subject to 'sexual normalisation' in 21 member states. meanwhile, the list of actions remains limited in terms of priority and commitment, and innovative eu responses, such as the social rights pillar, are not being integrated. only by restoring credibility to this policy document, by protecting the rights of intersex people, by protecting european citizens from all forms of discrimination through the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, which has been stalled for ten years now, as has already been said, and by taking concrete measures to guarantee freedom of movement for families, including lgbti families, will we respond to the requests of the court of justice in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the charter. this is a fight against transphobia, homophobia, which is also cured through culture... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too consider it very important, as has already been said, that there should be this debate, a joint debate on the rights of lgbti people, and the resolution on the rights of intersex people. as mr viotti said, i believe that this debate is also the result of the work of the lgbti intergroup, to which i am happy to have contributed. i am also glad that the feminist movement is increasingly defining itself as a transfeminist movement precisely because it believes that women's liberation and the liberation of lgbti people are unattainable. i think that, in particular, as mrs ernst has pointed out, we must condemn any form of surgery which would revert to a gender binary for intersex children. so i'm really, really excited about this discussion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully endorse the words of mr mikolášik and many of my colleagues who have gone before me. if confirmed, the experimental work on the modification of the human germline genome carried out by this chinese researcher last november certainly violates the principle of human dignity, enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, and raises very sensitive issues, including scientific, social and, above all, ethical ones. biomedical research has undoubtedly led to important advances in the understanding of serious diseases, aimed at alleviating human suffering, but it is essential to distinguish between editing the somatic genome and modifying the germ genome, that is, dna. the germline genome editing is unacceptable because it involves, as has been said, serious risks of potentially harmful, unintended effects, not only on the individual but also on his descendants, causing heritable alterations whose possible consequences in future generations are unknown to us. the european union, precisely because of its leading role in international scientific research, on the basis of its principles and values, must state unequivocally that there is a red line which cannot and must not be crossed because it would open the most dangerous breach... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i too welcome this report, which comes at the end of an electoral term, but let us consider it as a very good starting point for the next administration, the next commission and the next parliament. i would also have been a little more ambitious in describing the specific objectives and the timetable for their achievement. i personally favour the first scenario of a pan-european strategy. i could talk about the individual parts here: air, waste, water, etc., but my colleagues have already done that. i would like to add one more topic which has not been mentioned here, but which i personally consider important and which relates to sustainable development and the relationship between man and the environment. and that's the issue of animal status. i am a member of the intergroup here in the european parliament which is now supporting the 'no cage time' initiative to improve the living conditions of animals in the eu and to ban cage farming. i think that when we talk about the environment, how to ensure a decent environment for people, we should not forget that the issue of the status of animals is also related to this, even if indirectly, and we should also mention this issue and not just talk selfishly about our environment. so please, commissioner, take note of this initiative, which has already gathered 350,000 signatures across europe. by the autumn, the necessary one million should be collected, and we should certainly address the issue of not only the environment of people, but also of animals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, mr vice-president, first of all, commissioner katainen is right when he says that if we are to really move towards the sustainable development goals, we need a lot of training, a lot of training. perhaps a course could be offered to our minister for transport, who just yesterday presented an environmental impact assessment which seems to show that it is much better to send goods and people by tir and cars rather than by trains, as we here in europe believe is better, but we can also show this with data. secondly, i would like to thank the commission for this report. i think that is a good basis for the future, as many colleagues have said. in the next mandate i believe we will have to turn this report into concrete instruments of work, taking into account, as many colleagues have said, the social aspects... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, any policy which does not aim at sustainability is a thing of the past, and in this respect the policies of the european union are at the forefront of the world. over the years, europe has become a pioneer in sustainability, with social and environmental standards among the highest in the world. but the challenges we face are complex, changing and urgent: from ecological debt to climate change, from democratic change to migration, from inequality to economic and social convergence. the reflection paper on a sustainable europe by 2030 takes forward the policies already set out in the europe 2020 strategy, and in particular in the un 2030 agenda. the circular economy has the potential to create over one million new jobs across the union, and clean energy has the potential to create as many. but i think the critical part is missing, namely a reflection and analysis of what has slowed down and made it impossible to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for the ideas expressed in this lively debate on sustainability. first, i want to say it would be a mistake to think nothing has been done during this commission’s term of office, and to see this just as a starting point, when we start doing something. i would like to give you a couple of examples, namely the paris agreement and our climate legislation, the circular economy package, the plastics strategy, the social dimension and the investment plan for europe, to mention just a few concrete examples of measures already adopted which will have a significant impact on sustainability in the future. i have tried to take two different ways of looking at sustainability in europe. the first concerns social sustainability. i have visited many of our member states, and i have seen that there are those which are advanced in social dialogue between employees and employers about how to reskill people already in jobs; and there are those which, basically, have not done anything. i am afraid this issue may become a new dividing line in europe. there are countries which understand that we have to pay more attention than before to re-skilling. there are also countries that pay more attention than others to the quality of teacher training and education internally. if member states – our governments and the social partners – don’t take more seriously the challenge of skills and the quality of basic education, then we cannot be successful. this is my first message. i believe that education – training and reskilling people – is the most important social factor in relation to sustainability. then, looking at the economic angle, i would like to mention the circular economy, including product-design policies and sustainable finance – those three concrete issues. they are the issues which, i believe, matter most with regard to improving sustainability. i had a discussion with several representatives of financial institutions, who are pleading with us to create a clear taxonomy and a classification of sustainable finance. they are saying that their clients are asking for more sustainable assets. and this is exactly what the commission is working on at the moment. we have to let the financial sector act to change the world. they are willing to do it, because their clients, us, and consumers are asking them to do it. so, if we manage to create sustainable finance criteria and a taxonomy, i’m sure that hundreds of billions of euro will shift direction and this, honourable members, will change the world, including through the circular economy. the private sector is leading the show here at moment, and this house has been extremely supportive and innovative, supporting too the developments in product-design policy because we, as consumers, are asking for more sustainable business models, more sustainable ways to consume and more durable and repairable products. so i am not worried at all about whether we can achieve the sustainable development goals, if we just manage to pick the right things to change and also, especially, if we keep the private sector onboard – because it’s not only us, as legislators or regulators, who can change the world. it’s also private operators. our role is to create a better playing field, a more sustainable regulatory environment, which will enables us and other stakeholders to do the trick. i believe we can combine social equality, social sustainability, environmental sustainability and sustainable economic growth in the future, and it should not be rocket science!
member of the commission. – madam president, i think today is a very important moment. we are talking about common provisions, regulation of the european regional development fund and other european funds for seven years, from 2021-2027. it is a key milestone in our preparation for post-2020. i would like to thank all of you for your contribution. it’s very important that we are going to have a new regulation based on the lessons we have learned over the last years. for simplification purposes, for the first time there is just one regulation to cover all shared seven management funds. you know very well that everywhere i have been since becoming commissioner i have heard the same complaints, and i really was very sad to meet young people who had given up using our funds because of bureaucracy, because of complications and lending regulations. so now we have a handbook. we have this one regulation to cover all seven shared management funds and it is a milestone in terms of the quality of parliament’s report. i would like to thank both ms krehl and mr novakov, all members of the committee on regional development (regi) – ms mihaylova, the chair, and the others – and all those who contributed to this report. you really deserve a high prize for the efficiency and quality of the work done in such a short time. i warmly welcome your support for key elements of the commission proposal, and of course, i rely on you, i ask for your continued support to ensure that these elements are maintained and they are not watered down during the negotiations. for us, these elements include, very importantly, first a partnership agreement for all 27 member states and for all seven funds. you know that in the coreper there is this idea to have different standards for different countries and your report rightly placed great emphasis on strategies and coordination. we cannot accept double standards. we cannot accept coordination for some member states but not others and we cannot accept coordination of some funds but not others. i really hope that i can count on your support on this. the second key element is about new policy objectives. here again, i wish to thank you for your support. we all want, as ms krehl said, a europe that is smarter, greener, more connected, more social and closer to the citizens. our five new policy objectives are a step in the right direction and, for us, it is very important to remain like this during the negotiations. a third key element is a meaningful midterm review. here, of course, i know that this is not a unanimous approach but i would ask you to keep an open mind. i believe that five plus two programming is necessary for a meaningful review. our experience shows that when funding is all programmed at the beginning, it is less flexible. during this programming period there were so many unexpected events – like migrants, like caterpillar in belgium, like earthquakes in italy. so we need to be flexible. we have tried to respond to these new challenges. deleting five plus two programming represents, in our view, a step backwards, a step away from flexibility. our first key element is simplification. i started with this and i want to close with this. thank you for your support on this. thank you for the belief in our common efforts for simplification, because the many simplifications in our proposals are based on suggestions and ideas from all member states and all families. in fact, as you know, we have a simplification handbook. we have simplified and streamlined programmes that have been set up. we have simplified payment claims. we have simplified the audit process. your continued support here is crucial in both the short and long terms, ensuring that simplifications are not watered down, that they continue to strike the right balance. in conclusion, it is now time to open discussions from the trilogue. beginning with this vote today we can start the trilogue. i want to thank you, because parliament has already showed its readiness in terms of this report. of course i also asked the council to maintain the momentum into the trilogues, because we must maintain the momentum, and we must also maintain the quality of the proposals for an effective, dynamic, modern and cohesive policy. time is short and we really need to work hard and fast. you know very well that our estimation is that if we don’t start the implementation from the first day of the next programming period – 1 january 2021 – more than 100 000 projects in all 28 member states will be at risk of not being completed with european money. it’s in our power to do the best we can.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and the commissioner for the initial proposal. first of all, as mr van nistelrooij has already said, i believe that we should manage funds in such a way that no one is left behind - neither the people, nor the regions - and that means targeting urban policies, peripheral areas, the most disadvantaged areas - and not even the territories, and therefore we really need to build the agenda for mountain, rural and outermost areas which we have repeatedly asked our commissioner to draw up and implement. the third point i wanted to raise is this: i do not agree that macroeconomic conditionality should be retained, even with modifications. we must know that this only serves to make citizens and countries hate the european union. we use incentive policies to do good, not punitive policies.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this regulation on the common provisions on the european funds, the european parliament has considerably improved the commission's proposal. we have increased global resources, increased attention to environmental and social issues, increased co-financing rates. but there are two fundamental issues which are missing, and on which we tabled four amendments: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reform of the cap and the implementation of the reform of the cap, in particular by: we are talking about a very absurd, unfair and punitive mechanism which provides for the suspension of funds for those states which do not comply with the absurd austerity dictates coming from brussels. we talk a lot about europe changing, we've been talking about it here since 2014, and now many groups and political parties seem to be waking up and debating it. but it is from here, from public votes on these issues that are fundamental to our citizens and our territories, that change comes. a different europe is achieved by work, by building real mechanisms of solidarity and social cohesion, and certainly not by a pseudo-europeanism that is a facade that bends to the logic, which has little logic, of economic governance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two rapporteurs and the committee as a whole have done a very good job. it is a step forward towards citizens and local communities, the most important european policy in these years and in the years to come. we must therefore be absolutely proud of it. but as the debate today shows, with the intervention of many members, we do not penalize this work. that is why i insist, in the hours between now and the vote: we are not going to be able to do that, and i am afraid that the commission will not be able to do that. i would like to say to all the members who have worked during these hours to determine the most advanced balances: there is a package of amendments, 448 to 499, 553 to 426: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be enough to put a signal on one of these amendments to keep the political families, but also the protagonists of cohesion policy in these years, together and to carry forward a policy which is fundamental for europe and for our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs, because the committee has done a very good job in making the measure much better. the results achieved, to which reference has been made, in terms of the concentration of resources, the simplification of procedures, the increase in the financial allocation, together with tenders and investment plans and the principle of territoriality, represent very positive elements. at the same time, i think it is important, as has been stressed by several colleagues, to refer to two fundamental aspects. the first is the question of additional national resources. it is unthinkable that on this subject there can be the idea of the non-additionality of these resources and therefore the treatment of these resources as separate resources. we must have the capacity to unlock them financially and allow them to be truly additional resources. in addition, there is the issue of macro-conditionality, which is a complete contradiction from the point of view of europe's political message to the citizens. we shall vote against this because i think we need a clear and unequivocal answer from this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the joint work with my colleagues from the regi committee and the sensitivity of the rapporteurs, the regulation on the common provisions for the structural funds will also cover the european agricultural fund for rural development. it was necessary to provide for legislative and administrative simplification for this fund too, in line with current programming, but taking advantage of the critical points identified and above all respecting the peculiarities of the agricultural sector. to better mobilise local potential, investment in the form of territorial instruments, such as integrated territorial investment and participatory local development, key measures of the feas, needed to be encouraged. i do not agree, however, with the provision, also in future programming, of macroeconomic conditionality, which betrays the objective of cohesion policies. the freezing of funds for the regions for breaches of eu budgetary rules is a betrayal of the europe of the regions and a failure of cohesion policies. the possibility of suspending the sanction procedure in the event of exceptional economic circumstances was also rejected. several amendments have been tabled against this conditionality. i hope that the vote will correct this injustice.
i am sorry, mr president, but i cannot remember the number of the rule, so i will write it down if you wish. i would ask the presidency to verify the debate that took place yesterday with the president of the italian council, mr conte, because after my speech i was very much offended by the league or the five star movement benches, i do not know which, so i would ask to verify exactly what was said by those benches, since president tajani also had to speak.
mr president, i, on the contrary, supported this agreement and i am very pleased that we have approved another free trade agreement with another country. our philosophy, the philosophy of the eu in international trade, must be the principles of liberalism, the principles of free trade, not protectionism. i am convinced that we will soon see the beneficial effect this agreement will have on trade relations between the eu and singapore. when we evaluate this agreement in a few years, we will see - and i dare say this - an increase in trade and investment between the eu and singapore. this will have a similar impact to the recent evaluation of the free trade agreement with south korea, which has also contributed to a substantial increase in trade between the eu and south korea. so i welcome that and i ask you, please, let's be more courageous in accepting these agreements with our other trading partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already done in the committee on international trade, i voted against the trade agreement between the european union and singapore and, of course, against the resolution. the reasons are too many to list. i would like to focus in particular on the one indicated in this poster (the speaker put up a poster in the hemisphere), which we also pointed out through a series of amendments by the gue/ngl group, all of which were rejected. the isds system, even if renamed ics, is in fact creating arbitration courts which only guarantee the rights of investors. in addition, there are no binding measures on global emissions, no measures and no recognition of international labour conventions, and little protection for our products. there are many reasons why we voted against this agreement between the european union and singapore.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day: the european parliament, in its vote in plenary, has removed the very harmful principle of economic macro-conditionality, that is, the possibility of suspending funds for a state which deviates from the economic dictates of the commission, and has also overturned the vote of the committee on regional development. i am glad that this is an important paradigm shift and a recognition and awareness of some of the stupid and punitive rules for our territories, which therefore no longer have a reason to exist. we must now be very careful in the trilogues, lest the council be pressured by the hawks of austerity and change the text again with the complicity, perhaps, of some of the groups in parliament. there are many other positive elements in the report. the total financial allocation for cohesion policy is increased by proposing a more ambitious draft budget than the one proposed by the commission: the number of people who have been affected by the crisis has risen from 378 billion to 322 billion. our amendments have also defended and achieved the principle of territoriality in cohesion policy. if there are at the discretion of the member state, however these transfers to instruments such as investeu, the investments will have to remain in the same category of regions, i.e. in the same territories where the resources come from. the european co-financing rate, which is essential for the liquidity of regions and local authorities and thus for the start-up of projects, has also been significantly increased, particularly for the less developed regions, i.e. the whole of southern italy, from the 70% proposed by the commission to 80%. the commission has also taken several steps forward in relation to the 2014-2020 programming period from an environmental and social point of view. we have therefore voted in favour of the report and we are preparing to discuss it with the council and the commission.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost five years away from the luxleaks scandal, which involved hundreds of multinational companies that over the years went to luxembourg to sign tax rulings in order to pay less than 0.1% of tax, when in several member states of the european union, and especially in the eurozone, the level of taxation for companies is much higher. you can understand that this situation causes many citizens to become disillusioned with the european union when they see the work of this body, which is unable to put a stop to these practices and instead indicates measures to reform certain systems in certain countries, such as the pension system in italy or greece, always demanding a leveling-down to compensate for certain imbalances and the incompleteness of monetary union. in this situation we are therefore asking why the commissioner, with the same emphasis as he is putting on the need for reforms in the countries of southern europe, is not calling for reforms in countries like the netherlands and luxembourg, which we have all been waiting for for decades now, because these practices have been denounced by several investigative journalists who have also taken risks by carrying out certain investigations. why would you do that? because perhaps there are strong powers behind it, capital as usual, while it is easier to punish the people who will most likely punish you in the next elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, you are standing before a historic opportunity as the representative of a socialist government and as president of the council. as you have heard, this parliament is all in favour of the council deciding, using the 'passerelle' clause, unanimously to vote from now on on on fiscal matters by majority, an essential element for decisions to be taken on which we all, as you see, even the extreme right, largely agree, at least all those who think of remaining within the european union. so i really suggest that you take this opportunity to show us that there are also governments in europe that can change the course of events in the council and not just in parliament. commissioner moscovici, i think you have touched on many important points which we absolutely agree with. i would ask you, however, to consider the question of a more general directive. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner moscovici, you admitted a while ago that there are seven countries in the european union which are engaged in what we might call aggressive tax planning. i think we should call it by its proper name, by the appropriate name which means "tax havens", and i think we should also name these tax havens: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the european union in the field of environmental protection. to this list we must add the most hidden tax haven in the european union, germany, which has as much as 5% of the global market for offshore financial services, making it a tax haven more than dubai, more than the netherlands and more than panama. now these countries are favouring the big multinationals - it has already been said - by making them pay less interest and even not paying taxes on dividends, with the consequence of having a penalty and progressively destroying the internal market of the union, as happened to apple and nike. so what is the point of strengthening cooperation and improving coordination to prevent tax fraud when there are these member states which are acting as real tax havens, which are operating in an uninterrupted fashion as tax havens within the union? the debate on unanimity is fine, but i ask why the commission says that it is only going to act now, when for five years - we are at the end of our mandate - it has pretended not to see this theft by some of the states which are part of the union but which are thus doing irreparable damage to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, research, innovation and the new and sound economy are intertwined in order to achieve a defining objective, that of a europe which puts people and their rights back at the centre. thinking of evaluation models that simplify procedures means saving time and quality, avoiding duplication and overlap, guaranteeing results based on the sharing of paths within a grid of quality parameters, precisely by having at our disposal a bouquet of good practices recognized as such. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a very high percentage of new medicines put on the market do not present any obvious technological improvement over existing medicines. the competition is often more about the name of the drug than its composition. this parliament has worked hard to introduce european assessment of the therapeutic value added of health technology and to harmonize the criteria for clinical evaluation of medicinal products, which would lead to a higher quality of research and innovation and the elimination of unnecessary duplication. if the aim is to achieve legislative harmonization leading to an improvement in the quality of the pharmaceutical market, the health technology assessment system cannot be voluntary, as germany would like. unfortunately, after a long legislative process, the european citizens will not see this regulation finally adopted by the end of the legislature because of the lack of unity of purpose within the council. with tomorrow's vote we are handing our final position to the next european parliament, in the hope that in the interests of the european citizens we will be able to reach a common position as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened to your views with great interest and thank you for your overall, very strong support and i see that we are all like-minded here. i can assure you that the commission will carefully analyse all the points raised by members in today’s discussions. let me reiterate that the commission is ready to provide its expertise to the european parliament and the council in order to support the negotiations and facilitate possible compromise solutions. as has been recognised by the european parliament, the proposed regulation will benefit a wide range of stakeholders, including member state authorities, health technology developers, the healthcare providers and payers and, most importantly patients, across the eu. equal treatment and equal access is the cornerstone when we are speaking about innovative treatment. i can assure of the full support of the commission towards reaching an agreement on this important file. once again i thank you for your continued support, and let’s do our best to encourage member states now to once again reassess their positions and move as soon as possible to final conclusions.
thank you, colleague. as vice president with the human rights portfolio, i will absolutely convey this message to the president.
thank you, mr gomes. i will also, as i said to mr urbán crespo, forward the communication to the president as soon as possible.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the reporter. in accordance with rule 59a of the rules of procedure, i ask that the matter be referred to the committee on transport and tourism for the opening of negotiations with the council.
thank you, vice-president telička, and thank you to the greens for their gallant help. (parliament approved the request)
that concludes the voting.
i believe that the objective of the mechanism we are voting on tomorrow is in theory to protect strategic sectors and infrastructure. and we think it makes sense, that you can have a screening mechanism. what's the point, though? that in the presence of a neoliberal extremism, which very often forces or strongly induces privatisation - and certainly austerity policies have acted in this direction - with a policy that privileges competition, even prohibiting the possibility of state aid, when not advertising and nationalization of strategic sectors, investment screening can be reduced to an instrument for defining hierarchies between member states of the european union. it could therefore become, from a tool for member states to make their enterprises stronger, a tool to fuel a trade war. from a trade defence tool to a trade war tool that would favour the strongest member states of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the appreciation of the work done by mr proust. i fully support this initiative by the european commission to establish legislation for the monitoring of foreign direct investment in the european union. the aim is to fill a gap and create the legal conditions to enable eu countries to set conditions for the entry of foreign direct investment, mainly on the basis of considerations relating to national security or public order. this monitoring action, in line with what is already happening in countries such as the usa, canada or china, will concern in particular certain strategic sectors such as those linked to infrastructure or the main advanced technologies. in addition, the regulatory provisions may also cover investments by state-owned companies or companies with close links to foreign governments. i am convinced that we must protect europe's independence by promoting its primacy in the key areas of industrial and technological development. that is why we need to approve texts like this.
member of the commission. – mr president, this was a good debate and i can see that, with a few exceptions, there is strong support for the proposal. that’s very much thanks to our good cooperation under the leadership of mr proust, and also with mr bütikofer and others, who have made huge efforts to get this done in what was quite a short time. i would like to underline the fact that this is not a protectionist measure. it is not intended to stop investment that we need for jobs, for growth etcetera, and it is not a way for the commission to tell member states what investments they should accept or not. but it is a very important new tool, which would help us strengthen our collective capacity to respond to challenges that have arisen because of globalisation, in particular when foreign investments threaten our strategic interest. it would be the first time that we have the means to assess those risks and address them – reflecting the fact that we are an integrated economy in which foreign investors operate freely from one member state to another. we will be able to share information, to coordinate and to get a much better overview thanks to this proposal. we’ve had very intense exchanges over the past years on how we should calibrate this instrument: the balance between the roles of member states and the commission; the balance between confidentiality and security interests; and how to protect them, while still exchanging meaningful information and ensuring reporting. the outcome of the negotiations reflects, in my view, this careful balance. we are in the area of security and public order, and that places responsibility on all those involved, the commission and the member states, to ensure that the cooperation mechanism is trustworthy, works in practice and is efficient. we will, of course, report regularly to parliament on how this regulation is implemented and then – maybe soon when it works – mr proust, we can say to our voters that ‘c’est le temps retrouvé’.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the proposal for a directive for which i am the rapporteur, which will see its procedural process concluded with tomorrow's vote, amends the current rules on the interoperability of road toll systems and is intended to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on non-payment of tolls within the union. the current legal framework of the european union, as is well known, concerning electronic toll collection, has not guaranteed the achievement of these objectives, in particular because service providers face enormous difficulties in accessing the market and have to meet requirements that are normally considered excessive and unfeasible. it is difficult to enforce the payment of tolls to owners of vehicles registered in different eu countries, as there is no legal basis for the exchange of information in this area. the amendment which we tabled, which refers to the commission's proposal, was immediately supported by a large majority, both because the commission's proposal is considered by us as rapporteurs here in parliament to be a good proposal and because we have identified a very common position on this subject in the negotiations in parliament. the result is a very substantial text, i must say, compared with the initial proposal, in which we find many of the provisions of interest to all the delegations concerned. as regards the scope of the agreement, it is agreed that only the exchange of information to resolve the problem of non-payment will include tolls from the so-called uvars, the ztls, the urban low emission zones and tolls collected manually. this is an attempt to prosecute a greater number of offences. however, this does not include the part that most closely relates to the interoperability system. we have applied simplification in this case. another major topic which has been discussed at length and which has required considerable discussion concerns the list of technologies. as regards this list - we have satellite systems, mobile communications systems, we have the 5.5 gigahertz technology - we can say that from the beginning of the negotiations there was a clear alignment between the council and parliament to bring this list back into the body of the directive. this has allowed a stable framework to be established, a framework which is constantly subject to codecision in the discussion on the list of technologies. a clarification on this subject: we have discussed the technology of reading the anpr plates and we will try to introduce this technology when it is more mature, in order to guarantee the collection of tolls. as i said, article 4 on interoperability contains all the elements concerning the requirements for service providers, the obligations of the service providers themselves, the obligations for collectors, the subject of payments, the conciliation procedures, a number of topics which were previously in the decision have now been brought back into the directive. articles 5 and 6 provide for all procedures related to the legal framework on the exchange of information and article 8 seeks to ensure adequate data protection. in this case too, by taking the elements of the libe committee's opinion into account, we have tried to provide the necessary guarantees. well, it's worth remembering: we have worked hard and the telephony is the first text of the mobility package that comes to conclusion. i think this is a great tool for discussing the future parts of the mobility package.
member of the commission. – mr president, the recast of the directive on electronic tolling was the first proposal of the first mobility package on which the co-legislators reached an agreement in trilogues. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr salini, and the other members of the committee on transport and tourism, for their constructive approach throughout the negotiations, enabling such an agreement to be reached so smoothly and swiftly. tolling is a precious instrument for making the ‘users and polluters pay’ principle a reality for road infrastructure. but it has to be used in a way which is efficient, which does not create barriers to the flow of traffic and which protects the data that is being collected. the text you will be asked to vote on tomorrow addresses the fundamental problems in the field of electronic tolling. let me recall just its two main objectives. first, regarding the rights and obligations of market actors, it will clarify the grey zones which, so far, have been hampering the commercial deployment of the european electronic toll service (ets) in certain member states. more balanced and realistic requirements will lead to more competition on the ets market and more efficient operations. this will mean savings for road users, savings for toll chargers and additional revenues for member states. life will also be made easier for road users, in particular transport companies. they should ultimately be able to pay tolls, wherever they go in europe, with a single on-board unit. they should have to sign only one toll-service contract and should receive a single invoice at the end of the month. second, the agreed text will introduce a mechanism to facilitate the cross-border enforcement of toll payment. today, member states have no effective instruments in place to identify the owners of a foreign-registered vehicle for the purpose of toll collection. it is already possible for national authorities to go after those who commit a road-safety-related traffic offence but those who evade toll payments can escape fines. we have calculated that this leads to a revenue leakage of around eur 300 million per year. clearly, toll evasion is one of the main obstacles to a wider deployment of barrier-free tolls in the union. in addition, the agreed text extends the scope of application of the directive to tolling systems using automated number-plate recognition as the main technology. this is important to keep pace with the technological development on the ground, as stressed by the rapporteur. lastly, the co-legislators have extended the scope of application of cross-border enforcement. it will apply to all types of road fees, both electronic and manual. the commission can only support this extension. this initiative will help in the transition from traditional vignette schemes, and tolls with barriers, to modern and smart, free-flow tolling systems, the kind of systems we need in order to shape more sustainable mobility in the future. overall, i believe that all three eu institutions can be very satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and i’m looking forward to tonight’s debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner, mrs salini and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. it is also in the small things that europe must be perceived as united by its citizens, and having a single and interoperable tolling system at union level simplifies movement in the territory and is therefore essential. efficient transport networks are essential to the competitiveness of our economies and to the success of the internal market. road transport continues to increase and the potential of the road network needs to be fully exploited. using a single piece of equipment not only allows users to interface with all systems in different countries, but also facilitates the cross-border exchange of information on infringements relating to the failure to pay a toll. for these reasons i am in favour of a european toll system which will simplify the procedures for paying at the ticket offices, thus also reducing traffic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr salini and all the other members on the excellent result of the trilogue. the text under vote improves the exchange of information on vehicle data, ensures easier access for suppliers to the toll collection market and facilitates the use of a single on-board tele-tolling device for all road journeys within the european union. a mechanism for mutual assistance between member states for the enforcement of road tolls at cross-border level is provided for, but legal arrangements involving local authorities need to be put in place to better address the problem of cross-border enforcement of penalties for failure to pay tolls. finally, the issue of privacy: the introduction of electronic toll systems has implications for the confidentiality of personal data, as they can be used to generate comprehensive travel profiles. to avoid this, member states will have to provide for anonymous and encrypted prepayment options for the european parcel delivery service.
member of the commission. – madam president, i believe that the adoption of this directive will send a positive signal to the tolling industry as well as to member states wanting to implement fair and efficient road pricing. it will help reduce the cost while enhancing the market in electronic tolling, ultimately benefiting citizens. but before i conclude, allow me to respond to a few of your questions and comments. first of all, the question regarding the eurovignette. the council work on our road-charging proposal will continue under the romanian presidency. i wish presidencies had been more ambitious and ready to engage on this topic, but we expect the council to be ready to engage into negotiations with your house by the end of the year. let me also respond to honourable member mayer. i would like to clarify again one very important point, today we are discussing ets, which is an electronic tolling system, and again let me restate that the issue related to the vignette systems will be addressed in the road-charging initiative, which is also part of the first mobility package, which as i said will be negotiated with your house hopefully by the end of 2019. i will invite the honourable member to explore its functionality in other matters by himself, so allow me at the end just to congratulate again mr salini and thank all members who have contributed to achieving the compromise on this file. i’m really looking forward to a broader support during the vote tomorrow.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown that we have reached a point of equilibrium on a matter of common interest. the challenge of interoperability is a challenge that has to do with the idea of europe. it's a bad word, but it means harmony, it means collaboration, it means communication, it means seamless exchange. and those who benefit most from a harmonized circulation system - and i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work - but also all the other rapporteurs who have spoken, and in particular the commissioner for the debate - are first and foremost the weaker groups, that is, all those who have the hardest time bearing the cost of non-europe. let me close this debate, commissioner, and let me close with a political rather than a technical point. we have already done the technical part, we have dealt with it properly in the negotiation phase. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the transport system, which is often blamed in this house for environmental problems and sustainability, etc., is actually one of the great protagonists of this europe, which many people talk about without knowing what it is and which we are talking about trying to build.
i think that the work done on this regulation, which finally leads to the mutual recognition of goods legally marketed in another member state, is very positive. this could help to clarify and simplify the procedures to be followed by undertakings and national authorities and to improve the operation of these principles with regard to mutual recognition. as we know, free movement is not complete, the single market for goods needs to be completed. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the significant improvement in the application of the principle of mutual recognition will make it possible to give a blank cheque to companies. we will make life easier for businesses across europe, while ensuring that member state authorities have the ability to exclude unsafe products from their markets. we will thus be able to facilitate the recognition of safe and lawfully marketed goods and to facilitate their placing on the market in any other member state. the primacy of the general public interest is also guaranteed. member states may oppose the marketing of certain goods where a legitimate and proportionate public interest is at stake. we have defined ways of improving administrative cooperation between national authorities, and this will lead to a reduction in administrative burdens. this regulation provides for greater regulatory clarity for a wide range of consumer products, including all those in the area of both food and household consumption. in short, we are facing a tightening of product safety standards. this serves to define a high profile of policies that affect goods and their mobility and also the quality of consumption throughout europe.
in writing. in the absence of specific eu legislation, member states are free to adopt national rules to establish the requirements that marketed goods must meet. these national requirements, if divergent between some member states, can create barriers to intra-eu trade, leading to obstacles, delays in the process and additional costs for companies wishing to market these products in another member state. the regulation under discussion provides for increased coordination between the competent authorities, with the aim of reducing market fragmentation to the benefit of businesses, particularly smes and consumers, who are indirectly burdened by the additional costs borne by the businesses themselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation which provides for new rules for regular buses is very important in providing a regulatory framework for new realities which are developing throughout europe. however, the commission's original proposal left too much room for manoeuvre. the risks are still evident when it comes to public service contracts, which in my view are not yet fully protected, and i am also puzzled by the fact that suburban areas are not excluded from the scope of the legislation. in principle, i agree with the idea of making the sector more dynamic and competitive, but this must not be at the expense of protecting those essential transport services which, in my view, must continue to be regulated at national level. the prospect of a gradual and controlled process of liberalization must be considered, without prejudice to the current profitability of existing services.
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s a pleasure to be here today. i believe today’s report is another step towards improving implementation of the regulation on animal welfare during transport. let me begin by saying that animal welfare in general, and the protection of animals during transport more specifically, has been a priority under this commission, and you know very well that we have addressed a lot of the issues in this area. that said, when the court of auditors presented its report at last december’s meeting of parliament’s intergroup on the welfare and conservation of animals (animal welfare intergroup), it was clear that, despite progress achieved, there are issues that need to be addressed: in particular, proper implementation of legislation and enforcement of rules. there is no doubt. at the intergroup meeting i summarised some of the actions we have taken in this important and sensitive area. in addition, i outlined our efforts to address three areas where we still see a need for improvement: first, exporting animals by road in extreme temperatures; second, exporting animals by sea; and third, the transport of un-weened calves. the commission is addressing these issues from several angles. its work covers a number of the issues raised in today’s report, and it involves subgroups of the eu platform on animal welfare set up to work specifically on these issues and find common solutions. this work is being done by the member states, animal welfare ngos and industry representatives – and i see ngo representatives here – as well as independent scientific experts. the commission regularly organises meetings with the member states’ national contact points for animal welfare during transport. these face-to-face meetings facilitate discussions on better implementation and enforcement on the ground. the national contact points also contributed to the european federation of veterinarians’ guidelines on evaluating whether cattle, pigs and horses are fit for transport. the commission has conducted audits in member states that export animals by road and sea, and this process has covered incidents reported by ngos and visits to some of the most relevant ports. it is following up on these audits so that member states address the problems identified. the commission is now producing an overview report on the situation. the conclusions and recommendations will concern all member states. last summer, commission staff also visited the border between bulgaria and turkey in order to monitor the situation there, and i am committed to maintaining pressure in that respect, including in the season ahead. i am pleased there have been some improvements in the implementation of official controls. in 2018, summer exports of live cattle by road decreased and the compliance rate of trucks at the border increased, as the audit showed, and of course the court of auditor’s report mentions this too. however, i acknowledge that weaknesses remain. the commission will work with the relevant bodies to resolve them. the commission, and i personally, have written several times to all the member states governments informing them about, and asking them to monitor, the situation if temperatures are very high. we have requested that they respect temperature requirements and properly implement the rules to protect animals during road and sea transport. last month i met the turkish minister for agriculture to discuss the export of cattle. at this meeting i raised a number of welfare issues, including long waiting times at the border and the need for structural improvement at the border. we need to address this issue of structural development from both sides, and especially to ask turkey to act as swiftly as possible, and to highlight the need for control points in turkey so that european transporters comply with eu animal welfare rules. our interventions have had some effect but it is clear we are not yet there. we need to continue our work, and we will. the commission has already started to address the recommendations in the court of auditors’ report. we have begun a review of the various member states’ reports and the results of their official controls. this will generate more consistent data, which, when analysed, will paint a more reliable picture of animal welfare during transport. today’s resolution also highlights the need for more reliable data. i must remind you, however, that member states have the primary responsibility for implementing the regulation. just to mention the situation with third countries: the commission is active in raising animal welfare issues at international animal health organisation level and in relation to the better training for safer food initiative; and, in our trade agreements, we also push strongly on issues affecting annual welfare. the commission’s actions are intended to help achieve better implementation and enforcement. at december’s meeting of the animal welfare intergroup, i assured those present that the eu will continue to monitor the situation closely. we will consider further options to enforce the rules if need be. i would like to repeat those assurances now, and, above all, i want to stress that the commission and the member states must continue working together in order to improve the welfare of animals during transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, animals are sentient beings. every year millions of animals are transported across long distances to member states and to third countries for breeding or slaughter, suffering for hours in confined spaces, at unsustainable temperatures, without food and water and enduring the heavy strain of the movement of often obsolete vehicles. the time taken for animals to travel must be reduced, that is certain, and we must have a strategy in this respect. one solution could be, for example, to restore the local slaughterhouses, local slaughter facilities. in view of the alarming number of reports of unsuitable vehicles used for the transport of live animals, both by land and sea, it is necessary for member states to apply strict certification and approval procedures, and also to improve the suitability checks of animals before loading. it is essential that the future cap maintains the link between payments and the best animal welfare conditions, in compliance with the standards laid down in regulation (ec) no 1/2005.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have said it over and over again: millions of animals every year are subjected to the stress of long journeys in precarious conditions, from lack of food and water, from temperatures too high or too low, from overcrowding. and all of this causes anguish and suffering, and even the premature death of some of these animals. the protection of animals during transport is still inefficient today. that is a fact. there is no common standard of treatment, nor is there a common standard of controls, which differ in quantity and quality. it is incredible to think that today in the european union there are states where the number of checks is zero. we had asked for a committee of inquiry to look into this, but this request was rejected by the political groups in this parliament. fortunately, however, we have been able to discuss this in various committees and have clearly and resolutely stated that regular and thorough checks and inspections must be carried out, with severe penalties for infringement, because there are rules that exist today and are not respected. specialised staff and state-of-the-art animal welfare technologies must be ensured. these civilized measures must be enforced through bilateral agreements, including with third countries, and trade must be prohibited if necessary. but we want to be even more ambitious, and that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendment limiting the maximum transport time for live animals to eight hours. we must do everything possible to avoid any suffering.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the impression, as i listen to the debate here, that there is not a single proper transport of animals in europe, and that is not true at all. we have exemplary legislation in europe and most transport is carried out properly. the rapporteur should also know that there is already a licence for the transport of animals. but of course there are problems, and we have to deal with those problems. there is also a european citizens' initiative, more than a million people have signed it because they disagree with some of what is happening today. in principle, we in this house must also ask ourselves how we are dealing with these citizens' initiatives as a whole. that's why i think we have to look at the issue, we have to look at where things are not going well. we must look above all at how to create local circles, because there is really no point in hauling animals for slaughter halfway across europe just to continue the search for the even cheaper slaughterhouse somewhere in europe. it makes sense, of course, to slaughter the animals nearby and then transport the meat. so we are trying to make sense of the legislation that exists today and to make sure that europe is a model in this area.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable ladies and gentlemen, dear members, on behalf of commissioner moscovici, who cannot be here today, i am happy to present and to be here to discuss with you ways to improve the competitiveness of the internal market by developing the customs union. of course, we would like to thank the rapporteur, ms rozière, for her report and for the work on this subject. the importance of the customs union for the internal market and for the competitiveness of eu companies is, of course, clear. goods can flow freely, quickly and safely within the european union thanks to common customs rules at eu external borders. and, at the same time, the eu, the member states, acting as one single trading bloc in trade negotiations with third countries, have a far stronger position than any member state alone – as we’ve seen this week, for instance. i would also like to thank you for acknowledging the customs union’s vital role and the work carried out by customs administrations in your report. as the report notes, it is vital that the customs union ensures the competitiveness of european business, especially the smes, while at the same time protecting the eu’s revenue sources and allowing the flow of goods at our external borders. balancing these objectives is the main goal of the union customs code (ucc). the ucc has been the main legal framework for customs rules since 2016 and it aims to eliminate paperwork and fully automate all customs processes. it also provides for a greater electronic integration between the member states and it facilitates trade by speeding up customs control. i welcome the reference made in the report to the major progress already achieved over the last 20 years in the digitalisation of our customs processes. the current work is about building and expanding on the existing well—functioning electronic systems. for that reason, the ucc electronic work must proceed carefully, step by step. the new systems will only replace the old ones when they have been fully tested and when they can be launched easily with no disruption to trade. thanks to the provisional agreement reached in trilogue on the proposal to amend article 278 of the ucc, the commission and member states will have the time necessary to complete their work on the 17 ucc electronic systems. most systems will in fact be completed by the previously established deadline of 2020. however, for some of them it is necessary to allow extensions up to 2022 for the three national systems and up to 2025 for six trans—european systems. we have proposed these extensions to the commission to allow traders and member states to prepare in an efficient way. we believe that the work can now proceed in a smoother way in line with a carefully calibrated and agreed timeline. and, as you request in your report, i can assure you that the commission’s work programme for the customs it projects will be regularly updated to take account of the new deadlines. and, besides, we will of course regularly inform parliament of the progress of the customs electronic projects through regular reports. greater transparency here is, of course, in everybody’s interest: for you, for the economic operators and for the general public. the commission already produces annual reports in a technical format on the multiannual strategic plans for customs electronic systems and this form of reporting will continue. and, in addition, under the provisional agreement reached in the trilogue, the commission will provide a second more strategic annual progress report with the remainder of the work related to the development of the 17 ucc electronic systems. so let me conclude by saying that we will give careful consideration to all the suggestions you made in your report and we intend to address all the customs issues highlighted by this house.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, let me begin by thanking my colleague, virginie rozière, for her excellent work on this report. as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i would like to make a few comments on the text. first, to present itself as a credible partner when negotiating trade agreements with third countries, the european union must have a fully operational customs union that facilitates trade and reduces administrative burdens, in particular for small operators and smes. secondly, i believe that the protection of citizens and consumers depends first and foremost on our ability to control products entering and circulating in the single market, so as to ensure that the rules and standards are respected, both by european and non-european companies. this must be done irrespective of the country or port of entry, and to do this we need to harmonise customs procedures, the level and quality of controls and sanctions policies as much as possible, and to put a strong brake on the phenomenon of port-shopping. in this context, the perspective must be that of an increasing transfer of responsibility from national customs authorities to european customs authorities. thirdly, digitalisation represents a great opportunity, because it has the potential to make the exchange of information and the payment of duties more transparent and accessible, as well as being a powerful tool to fight corruption at borders. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate that the brexit process must not have any negative effects on the development or governance of the customs of the european union, or on the integrity of the single market.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already dealt with chechnya too many times in this house, in this parliament, not least last october, and i therefore join the words of all the colleagues who wrote this resolution. i would like to take this moment to remember assil belalta. assil belalta was a 21-year-old who was killed, his throat cut, in algeria a few days ago. his blood was used to write "he is gay" on his dorm room wall, as if that were a crime. a 21-year-old medical student, who was in his third year of medical school, was killed in algeria because he was gay. we must oppose this, and he was killed two weeks after the president of the algerian magistrates had said: "we will oppose any law against homophobia". so europe must oppose all this, we cannot stand what is happening in chechnya, we cannot stand what is happening in algeria, we cannot see any more homosexual victims by regimes that are dictatorial. we can't afford this anymore. the hands of algerian politicians and media are stained with assil's blood.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, change everything to change nothing. this is the summary of the delicate scenario that has opened up in zimbabwe after 37 years of robert mugabe's dictatorship. it would seem impossible to imagine a worsening of the situation after 40 years of tyranny, hunger and bloodshed, but president mnangagwa is laying the foundations for success in the most difficult endeavor. mugabe's former vice president, mnangagwa, known as "the crocodile", has been associated with some of the worst atrocities committed since independence, and today his security forces have got their hands dirty again with 17 dead, 343 seriously injured and several cases of torture and rape. meanwhile, the opposition is decimated: thousands of protesters have been jailed, including children as young as nine, and even summarily tried, by the way. many others remain detained without trial. i wonder what has really changed in zimbabwe. what has certainly remained the same is the disregard for human rights and the annihilation of opposition. we must therefore call on the african union to include the zimbabwe crisis as a priority in the next ordinary session of its executive council.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as opposition leader nelson chamisa says, a year and a half after mugabe left office, the escalation of repression against opponents makes mugabe look like a dragonfly in terms of terrorism, domestic terrorism against opponents. in neighbouring south africa, where 130,000 people have fled in a single day since mid-january, some are denouncing a serious humanitarian crisis and even calling for the international criminal court to intervene. the question is why such a request is not made from the territory of the european union. it is not enough to think of the long tradition of brutal murders perpetrated against our fellow countrymen, the farmers of european origin. and perhaps the very serious economic and humanitarian crisis has its origins in that period which was not exactly a great honour for european civilization and for the role of defence of european citizens. we ask for funding of 234 million for the period... (the president cut off the speaker)
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite mr bin salman's attempts to present to the world the face of a saudi arabia on the road to reform, the reality is quite the opposite, and once again we must denounce the serious human rights situation. two cases are of concern. the first is the news of torture in prison of women's rights activists, who have been detained since may 2018. the second concerns the progress of the trial of israa al-ghomgham, her husband, and four other activists arrested in 2015 for participating in a peaceful protest in support of the shia minority. the latter are being tried before the special criminal court, which was set up for terrorism offences, as will probably be the case for some of the activists arrested in may 2018. we demand the release of all these people. we also asked in the resolution that a delegation from the european parliament, consisting of the subcommittee on human rights and the committee on women's rights, should be allowed to visit saudi arabia. finally, we call on the commission to emerge from the sort of lethargy into which it seems to have fallen in its relations with riyadh and to act more forcefully and with more determination so that human rights can begin to take hold in that country.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world's most misogynistic and obscurantist country continues to make a name for itself. a country where hatred, intolerance and discrimination continue to drive the hand and cloud the minds of those in power. to put a makeover on a medieval society, the generous and avant-garde prince bin salman has allowed women to drive and participate in sporting events, as if the problems of this country were driving and football. the end of the driving ban was unfortunately a pyrrhic victory for women activists, in the face of dozens of cases of alleged torture in detention, sexual abuse, assault, sleep deprivation and legal assistance. the courageous activism of these women against an establishment that treats them like animals is brutally punished and repressed, because if you don't count anything you can't ask for anything. that is why i keep asking you how a country that is a champion of human rights violations like saudi arabia can occupy a seat on the human rights council. his membership of the council is totally incompatible and inherently contrary to the values and mission of this body and must be suspended immediately.
mr. chairman, i'm very happy for the debate that's taking place here, because it's really absurd what's happening in saudi arabia with respect to activists fighting for women's rights. it should also be said that there is a strong suspicion that these activists are being unlawfully detained because they fought for women's rights to drive a motor vehicle. i'm sure that the audience watching this performance today will find it utterly absurd that women were not allowed to drive motor vehicles in saudi arabia until recently, and that those who fought for this utterly banal right of women were imprisoned, tortured and illegally punished in this way. so i challenge the commissioner, it is really so shameful that we have to do our utmost here to radically oppose saudi arabia, despite all economic and other interests, in short, it is really not possible to consider a country that denies the banal, basic human rights of women as an eu partner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has now become absolutely clear that women in saudi arabia are the victims of terrible violence. the last case, which has attracted the world's attention, was the terrible treatment of women activists who were demonstrating for basic rights, such as the right to drive. these women have been tortured, colleagues, with electroshock, they have been sexually harassed, they have been subjected to terrible torture. so this is totally unacceptable. and i would say to the commissioner that a joint motion for a resolution is not enough, it is also necessary. we need much stronger and more decisive steps, such as the immediate imposition of an arms embargo on this country which does not respect human rights in the slightest.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vella, i am very honoured to be asked today on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to present the oral question 'a europe that protects: clean air for all'. i believe that the debate we are about to have today, thanks to this question, will be able to give further impetus to the initiatives that are being taken, especially outside this house, to improve air quality for the benefit of all. i also think that the resolution which is linked to this oral question and therefore the message which the european parliament will be able to send in march, thanks to its approval at the next plenary session, is also very important. air quality is a subject of growing interest to european public opinion. we are talking about a general problem which affects the 500 million citizens whom we represent here and who would like to see it resolved as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the air, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of air pollution in the transport of dangerous goods. the cost of poor air quality in our cities is now higher in terms of human lives than in road accidents. with over 400 000 premature deaths a year, air pollution is unfortunately the number one environmental cause of premature death in europe. the situation is particularly critical in urban contexts, where the largest number of european citizens live. according to available data, 19% of the urban population is continuously exposed to levels of fine dust above the daily limit values established by union legislation. in addition, about half the european population is exposed to concentrations of these substances that exceed the strictest recommendations set by the world health organization to date. breathing clean air is therefore essential, not only to protect the health of our fellow citizens, but also to ensure that a healthy environment is maintained for the benefit of present and future generations. poor air quality has a detrimental impact on the maintenance of ecosystem services. excess atmospheric nitrogen in particular damages the ecosystem, promoting eutrophication of the atmosphere and the appearance of acid rain. it is for this very reason that the european union has been working since the early 1970s to establish common rules to control the release of harmful substances into the atmosphere and thus improve the quality of fuels and to integrate environmental protection requirements in the transport sector and in the energy sector. but air pollution crosses national borders and that is why it is of great importance that action to improve air quality be coordinated at union level. however, despite europe having a solid and uniform legislative framework to combat air pollution, environmental policy measures and instruments adopted in the member states and at local, regional and national level vary enormously from one context to another, from one member state to another. the fact that there are serious problems with the implementation of air quality legislation is demonstrated by the very high number of pre-litigation procedures initiated over the years by the european commission. there are now 30 infringements under way which concern the misapplication of the rules which are supposed to protect the health of european citizens from air pollution. there is therefore an urgent need to improve the air we breathe in europe by ensuring that the ambient air quality standards adopted by the european parliament and the governments of the member states more than a decade ago are met. the message we are sending to the commission today with our question is precisely this: we call on the commission to step up its efforts to closely monitor the implementation of directive 2008/50/ec, industrial emissions, transport and vehicle type approval. we ask you to give serious consideration to the need to provide answers to the concrete needs of regional and local authorities, which we must strongly support so that they can take effective and systematic measures to reduce transport emissions, also thanks to increased co-financing opportunities in particular under the programmes linked to the next multiannual financial framework. finally, we call on them to act within the reform of the common agricultural policy to give farmers the tools to help them reduce emissions from their sector, in particular ammonia, and to address the growing human health concerns related to exposure to ultrafine particulate matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take the floor again in this debate, now on behalf of my political group and the five star movement, because i believe that this is a fundamental issue and the right to breathe clean air is unfortunately denied to many, many citizens in europe and the world. breathing clean air today is not just a reality, it should be an aspirational goal and one for which policy must do more. it must do more because more than 4.2 million people die every year worldwide as a result of air pollution and, according to who data, 91% of the world's population live in places where air quality is below standards. we have already discussed the data for europe. the situation is certainly serious and therefore more must be done. i personally come from a region, lombardy and in particular northern milan, which is blacklisted because of air pollution caused by excessive levels and very high concentrations of fine dust and nitrogen oxides, and this is because the citizens are suffering from the poor choices of a regional government which unfortunately looks to particular and private interests over the collective good and the protection of the collective interest. we have seen too many times that the right to breathe clean air has been sacrificed on the altar of huge, useless infrastructure projects, which are aimed at private interests and which are destroying the environment. we have mutilated our territory and destroyed beautiful areas that are also present in lombardy. we have industrial agriculture and intensive livestock farming, and there are some cities where there are many more animals than people. i, as a citizen and as the spokesman for the five star movement, believe that all is not lost, that a europe which protects can be possible and must be sought and must be built together. we are demonstrating this through the legislative action we are taking both in brussels and in rome, by advocating a fair but ambitious transformation of many sectors, i am thinking of the automotive and transport sectors, trying to frame them as much as possible around a model of the spread of zero and low emission vehicles and local public transport. i thank you, commissioner, also for the clean air dialogues you have introduced and i thank you also for taking a stand against the diesel advocates who have lately really...
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
before resuming our work, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express the european parliament's condolences to the families of the victims of the tragic accident that occurred yesterday in ethiopia, in which 157 people lost their lives, including many european citizens. today marks the 15th anniversary of the madrid terrorist attacks, which killed 192 people and injured more than 2,000 in 2004. march 11 has become a symbolic date: it's a day we dedicate to the memory of the victims of terrorism. as the vile attack in strasbourg before christmas reminded us, we cannot let our guard down. we must fight always and everywhere to defend our values and our freedom from the barbarity of terrorism. five years ago crimea was annexed to the russian federation. parliament has in its various resolutions stressed that the annexation of crimea constitutes a violation of international law. the annexation violates numerous agreements signed by the russian federation and ukraine, notably the un charter, the helsinki final act and the budapest memorandum. today we reaffirm our support for the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 7 march 2019.
i shall be in assisi on those days to hand over the torch of peace to the jordanian royals, together with the italian prime minister, giuseppe conte, and the chancellor of the federal republic of germany, angela merkel.
give me time to answer. we have been informed that theresa may will be meeting the president of the european commission, but she will arrive late in the evening. i think that if she comes to parliament i will meet her, but she will not be here until tomorrow morning, so i do not think she will be able to address parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to refer to the rules of procedure: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the member states. we have seen a shameful display at the last plenary session by mr verhofstadt, who took the liberty of offending the italian prime minister, who represents 60 million italian citizens and therefore 60 million european citizens. i ask that mr verhofstadt - who i consider to be an unworthy member who should not be in this house - be punished in accordance with the rules of procedure.
if you say that mr verhofstadt must not offend others, you must not offend mr verhofstadt. he who is elected by the people is worthy.
he called the italian prime minister a puppet. that's an undignified thing to say.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
what does that mean? that this can be done in this house?
i would also like to send you a written reply, mr president, which has already been prepared. i think it is more important to say this in the house in front of everyone than to send a letter in writing. i'll be in assisi on those days. it 's no use to continue the controversy: i'm not going to the party. i was invited and i'm not going. i can't be flogged because i was invited. i'm going to another event, so i'm not going. there's no point in us continuing to argue.
i'm telling you for the millionth time: i'll send you my answer in writing. however, the house is sovereign and the house counts for much more than a private letter between you and me. i got the invitation, i didn't sign up, i'm going somewhere else: i don't know what we're supposed to do. i am not the minister of the interior and i cannot ban meetings in my country. if i go to another place, where the prime minister and chancellor merkel are, the answer seems to me more than clear. i don't know what else to do.
the following amendments to the agenda were tabled. monday
the ecr group therefore requests that the agenda be amended to include a discussion on the floods in crete. (parliament rejected the request)
we now move on to the demands of tuesday. tuesday there are a number of amendments. we start with the epp group, which has asked that the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on a european regime of sanctions for human rights violations be changed to read as follows: the european union's magnitsky act: a system of sanctions for human rights violations. i give the floor to mr preda to present his group's request.
the s&d group also asked that a debate on the report by mr løkkegaard on accessibility requirements for products and services, scheduled between the votes on wednesday, be added as the sixth item on the agenda for the afternoon. i give the floor to mrs sehnalová to present the request of her group.
the alde group also requested that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the emergency situation in venezuela be added as the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon, following the report by mr piri on the 2018 report on turkey. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr nart to present his group's request.
do you share mr. nart's position without adding anything else?
we now come to the demands for thursday. thursdaythe greens/efa group and the efdd group asked that the debate on the oral question on animal welfare rules in aquaculture be concluded with a resolution to be voted on at the next part-session. i give the floor to mr lamberts.
does anyone have anything to say about that? please, on. i'm not sure.
i didn't know anything about that. if there was objective responsibility, that is, if there was intent, we will intervene. if it was just the hangover, we're sorry. i'll check what happened.
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m glad to join you today for this plenary debate on the european solidarity corps. this programme is still quite young but it is growing quickly and young people across europe are keen to get involved. the european solidarity corps has the potential to become another iconic programme like erasmus. solidarity among citizens and member states is one of the key values on which our union is built. the european solidarity corps offers young people opportunities to live that solidarity and to experience what being european feels like, and they are eager to take these opportunities. one hundred and thirteen thousand young people have now signed up for this initiative. almost 12 000 of these have already started their solidarity activities. this proves that the programme is responding to a clear demand on the ground. young people are making a real difference, supporting individuals and whole communities in need. this is why, in june 2018, the commission proposed to continue and further expand the european solidarity corps under the next multiannual financial framework. we want to keep the main thrust of the current programme, but extend its scope after 2020 so that we can also support humanitarian aid operations beyond the eu’s borders. i want to express my thanks for the great dedication with which the rapporteur – ms šojdrová –, and the shadow rapporteurs have taken this work forward. i would also like to thank ms theocarous for her work as the rapporteur in the development committee, particularly looking at the new humanitarian aid operations. the commission welcomes the strong support of the european parliament for the proposal and takes note of the amendments that it put forward. i am very pleased to see that we have common ground on almost all aspects of the programme. one important point where we differ and where we still need to find agreement is the new humanitarian aid stand and, more specifically, your wish to open it up to people of all ages. let me underline that the european solidarity corps is a youth programme, designed specifically to offer fresh opportunities to the young generation, to invest in their development, their skills, their dreams, and the idea is to bring all of these opportunities together in one place. in fact, the activities of the programme are limited to young people aged up to 30 for good reason: to help them in their transition to adulthood and independence and to the labour market, while obtaining a solidarity experience. thirty is not an arbitrary age limit; it is based on evidence. above this age, the vast majority of people have settled in their professional and private life. the demand is already high in the age group up to 30. removing the age limit would mean taking away opportunities for young people and we risk job substitution. moreover, the activities falling under the new humanitarian aid strand will account for only 4 500 of the 350 000 opportunities that we want to offer under the european solidarity corps over 7 years, and only 500 of these are expected to be taken up by people above 30. introducing different eligibility criteria for such a small share of activities would lead to disproportionate extra administrative costs and make the programme more complicated, threatening to shut out those who we want to benefit most: young people. i would therefore plead with you to keep the european solidarity corps a real youth programme. having said this, the commission would be keen to start negotiating with you right away, as is the council. this is my personal commitment and offer to you. i’m ready to work with you towards an agreement before the end of the current parliamentary term. partial first reading agreements have already been reached for quite a number of future programmes. it would be a pity if the european solidarity corps, this new flagship programme for young people, were to be left behind. i am sure that the good compromise we reached on the current regulation only very recently would greatly facilitate negotiations. a swift agreement would help the commission to make all the preparations to ensure that the programme can be fully and effectively implemented right from the start of 2021, but most importantly, it would send a clear signal to europe’s young generation that investing in them remains a priority for us, and that we want to do what we can to enable them to make the most of their lives and build a better europe for the future.
i think it is very important that we send a signal to the european citizens, two months before the european elections. two very powerful messages. the face of europe is also definitely that of voluntary work, solidarity and active citizenship. and this must once again be a watchword of the european union, especially from the younger generations. we must make this experience, which was already under way in the past few years and which included the european voluntary service, which, however, involved a hundred thousand young people in twenty years, permanent over the next seven years. we certainly want to be bolder. with tomorrow's vote on the establishment of the european solidarity corps, for which i was the shadow rapporteur in the s&d group, we are taking an important step forward because we are going to establish a stable union programme in the next mff and i hope that the council of ministers will accept the proposal - also in terms of the budget - that parliament has made. it will devote almost the entire budget (almost 86%) to volunteering, active citizenship and solidarity activities for young people between 18 and 30 years old, 8% of the share will go to internships and jobs, but always in the context of non-profit activities, and 6% will go to humanitarian aid, collecting an important legacy, without an age limit similar to the other. it is a political step, and we really need to tell young people who don't know about it. i think it's important to think about the fact that, symbolically, this is going to be of tremendous significance. i remember. i met them, as the commissioner did, in norcia, after a terrible earthquake: a core of young volunteers coming from 12 countries had a huge meaning. more than 70 000 young people have already registered on the dedicated online portal; 7 000 are already participating in activities on social inclusion, integration of migrants, support for local communities and cultural heritage. it is important that the appropriation for the next seven years be increased to more than one billion, confirming as a political priority this fundamental value of the european union, to respond above all to the needs of society, of the communities, promoting the personal and professional development of young people, civic, with particular attention to the most disadvantaged. that's why we wanted to make it more inclusive, for children with fewer opportunities, for example those with disabilities, health conditions, difficulties in the field of education or coming from a migrant background or from marginalized communities. i am very pleased that some very important points have been taken up. the first is the european dimension of the experience: all these activities must be transnational, not overlapping national voluntary schemes, but rather supporting countries that do not have the need to do so. the country's activities must also have this transnational dimension. and then, most importantly, we extended to social enterprises and also to private organizations, but always for non-profit activities and with the possibility of having a quality label for different types of insertion. i conclude by saying that this is a new experience that brings together the best of the past, but that also wants to have the will to build a citizenship from below. i think we need to talk a lot about this today, about institutional reforms in europe, political integration and building processes of active citizenship.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text approved by the committee on culture defines solidarity as a sense of responsibility on the part of all, towards all, to commit themselves to the common good, which is expressed through concrete actions without expecting anything in return. with the european solidarity corps, the european union achieves the dual objective of promoting solidarity as a value, mainly through volunteering, and of increasing the participation of young people as a means of contributing to strengthening social cohesion, solidarity, democracy, european identity and active citizenship in the union and abroad. the objectives of social inclusion introduced by the european parliament are broadly shared, through a clear definition of young people with fewer opportunities, including disability, and a solid and significant component of learning and training during volunteering, useful for the performance of subsequent professional activities. that's a good sign. thousands of young people aged 18 to 30 will thus have the opportunity to engage in solidarity projects through volunteering, internships and work.
in writing. solidarity is at the heart of the european project, as enshrined in the treaties, and must therefore be preserved and fostered. the european solidarity corps is a programme which goes in this direction and therefore is undoubtedly to be appreciated and enhanced. it offers a real opportunity for young people to grow, both personally and professionally, by helping local communities in need. specifically, i would have preferred that only non-profit organisations could participate in the programme, to avoid, for example, possible abuses by multinationals who do not need public money to clean up their image. the so-called employment part (crafts and jobs) also leaves me a little puzzled, as it risks degrading a noble activity such as volunteering and favouring low-cost labour replacement practices. fortunately, my proposals have succeeded in increasing the safeguards and protections, introducing a clear demarcation line between voluntary and work activities, and introducing strict control procedures to exclude from the programme organisations which have broken the rules. we cannot allow the high unemployment rates, caused, among other things, by draconian austerity policies, to justify in any way the exploitation of our young people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in an increasingly digitalised and connected world, cyber security is a real political priority today. the adoption of the european cybersecurity act provides the union with clear and harmonised measures to prevent cyberattacks against the network. the enhancement of enisa's operational and coordination capacity and the creation of a european certification scheme constitute the added value of this regulation. we would like to take an even more ambitious step, for example by introducing a mandatory certification mechanism for products intended for use by operators of critical services. that wasn't. in any case, in the future, when users buy a tablet or a mobile phone, they will be able to check whether it is certified and what its level of reliability is. this is, however, a considerable step forward in increasing confidence in the european market for related goods and services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, information and telecommunications networks and systems have become pillars of economic growth. it is therefore of the utmost importance to minimise the risks and threats to which our data is exposed by allowing consumers to have confidence in it solutions. the cybersecurity regulation will provide europe with a long-term vision by strengthening the powers, competences and structure of the european network security agency and introducing a cybersecurity certification scheme, so as to reduce the costly fragmentation of products and services in the single market. i think that the voluntary system is acceptable in terms of certification, but for the basic and substantial guarantee levels; for products, processes or services falling within the higher level of guarantee, it is more appropriate to provide for a mandatory system. manufacturers or suppliers of ict products, processes and services should be required to provide structured certification information so that the consumer can have useful information when choosing the device.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it took almost 10 years of debate, 20 countries to legislate on the subject, but above all the insistence of this parliament and our two resolutions, the last of which (for which i thank vice-president mairead mcguinness once again) was overwhelmingly approved in june 2016: it took all this to get to the final vote today on the directive against unfair trading practices in the agri-food chain. it is an extraordinary achievement, made possible by the leadership and ambition of this parliament. this ambition has been realised in crucial improvements over the initial proposal. just to name a few: the extension of the scope, which now covers 100% of farmers and more than 95% of agri-food businesses in the union, with a turnover of eur 50 million to eur 350 million; the inclusion of buyers based outside the union among those who will have to comply with the directive; the inclusion of all agricultural products and not only food, protecting strategic sectors such as livestock farming and animal feed, pet food; strengthening and doubling the number of prohibited practices from 8 to 16, including, for example, late payment for non-perishable products, refusal to grant written contracts, or the threat of commercial retaliation in the event of denunciation; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. the obligation to act and to put an end to unfair practices for national law enforcement authorities, to whom we have also granted greater powers both in the investigative phase and in terms of sanctions; the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the directive, without forgetting the enhanced cooperation between the various national authorities, which will have to meet at least once a year and exchange information and good practice in order to ensure the most uniform and ambitious possible application of the directive. it is worth remembering that this is a minimum harmonisation and that the member states will be able to provide in their national legislation both the extent of the parties involved and the list of unfair practices to be prohibited. in order to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, in the 11 months since the commission's proposal was published, despite the various attempts to block this directive once again, it has taken a strong political will on the part of everyone. i would therefore like to thank all those who have made this possible, starting, of course, with my colleagues in the commission, starting with commissioner hogan, whom i thank, the shadow rapporteurs, the whole negotiating team of the european parliament, the services, the austrian presidency, minister elisabeth kostinger, president-in-office of the council, without forgetting the fundamental work done by all the technical groups and of course also by my team. president. - ladies and gentlemen, this directive is europe showing that it is able to stand by the weakest economic operators, such as farmers, and all citizens. a supply chain characterised by unfair behaviour and thus by an inefficient distribution of resources puts all producers under pressure, in a race to lower prices that depresses both the quality of the products that reach the tables of households and citizens and the quality of the production process, encouraging labour exploitation and unsustainable production practices. on the contrary, by overcoming these distortions within the agri-food chain, the directive will be a reference point for achieving more transparent and fair markets, more efficient markets capable of generating benefits for society as a whole, and in particular for consumers.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on unfair trading practices in the food chain. i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on unfair trading practices in the food chain. the number of unfair practices is increasing significantly, with eight more practices than the commission proposal, ranging from last minute cancellation of orders to late payments, from unilateral changes to contracts to non-payment to suppliers for unsold goods by large central purchasing agencies. one of the strengths is undoubtedly the anonymous report in defence of the confidentiality of the supplier during the investigation procedure not only with regard to his identity but also to all other information that the supplier himself identifies as sensitive. the rules contained in the directive finally restore dignity to european agriculture by strengthening the position of producers vis-à-vis large retailers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done. the adoption of the unfair commercial practices directive is a major milestone, so that we can finally have a fairer redistribution of economic value in the agri-food chain, so as to guarantee a better income for small farms, but also a better quality of products available for sale. this directive is an act which is necessary to restore balance to the commercial chain by providing protection for those who, because of their small size, are too often at risk of being crushed by the abuses of larger players. the lack of bargaining power forces many small businesses to sell their products under unfair terms, to make economic agreements that impoverish them and to take on the costs and risks of doing business for others. clear rules at european level now unambiguously condemn all commercial practices by unscrupulous economic operators which end up crushing honest small farmers. once and for all, unfair trading practices such as unilateral and retroactive changes to supply contracts, commercial retaliation and payment for services not rendered will be stopped and punished. we are giving the member states an important and effective tool. if these rules are properly applied, they will restore fairness and dignity to small businesses, the weakest links in the agri-food chain.
mr president, mr de castro, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the directive on unfair trading practices in the food sector is a first step which is not enough to recognise the fact that: the eu has built an internal market full of imbalances, starting with those between mainly agricultural suppliers and commercial buyers. we are thus trying to mitigate unfair behaviour between those who have a de facto dominant position and suppliers, who often remain outside the sales mechanisms, witness auctions at a discount and promotional contests, and are often illegitimately asked to pay for some of the measures for the sale and storage of their products. today, in italy, we share with apprehension the fate of the sardinian sheep and goat breeding sector, which is not only committed to revolutionizing its own aggregating model and making the mechanisms governing the pdo pecorino romano more efficient, but also to defending itself against certain unfair behaviour by some buyers who try, even through a transfer price that is too low in relation to production costs, to maintain a distance from farmers on the distribution of the final value. we therefore strongly support this measure, in the hope that the next legislature will take care to introduce new rules for the internal market so that the right value can be given to agricultural products throughout europe, respecting the different realities and the different production costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my great appreciation for the tenacious, valuable and effective work of my colleague, mr de castro. the text agreed with the council on the proposal for a directive on unfair trading practices in business-to-business relations in the food chain is a fundamental and necessary instrument. in a market-oriented agricultural policy context, good and fair management of the food chain has become of key importance, in particular for small farmers, who are particularly vulnerable to unfair trading practices, as they often lack the same contractual power as their partners who buy their products. this is mainly due to the limited alternatives they have to get their products to the final consumer, as well as the structural weaknesses of the agricultural system. the directive aims to tackle unfair trading practices by introducing common protection instruments across the european union, including a more extensive list of prohibited practices. the objective to be achieved, and i assure you that i shall vote in favour of it, is to help ensure a fair standard of living for the farming community, thereby achieving one of the main objectives of the cap. i believe that this is a legislative measure of great importance also for italian and sicilian farmers in particular.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, agricultural policy is a pillar of the european union and provides massive financial support to farmers and producers, but unfortunately, more and more often, together with trade policies, it is being attacked, because our farmers are being crushed by disparate labour costs, structural shortcomings and the overpowering power of large-scale distribution, which imposes unfair trade practices. the weakest links in the chain are thus the ones who fail, and they often react by attacking europe itself, and us who represent them. with this directive we are finally demonstrating in practice which side we are on: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and to be adopted by the european parliament, and to be adopted by the council and the european parliament. from tomorrow this will be possible, thanks to the effective work of our vice-president de castro, the commission and all those who, like myself, have always fought for the farmers and small producers, the symbol of our agri-food industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this directive, which after so many years will finally protect farmers from unfair practices by purchasing and distributing companies and bring about a better balance throughout the food chain. i would like to point out the specific case that happened in sardinia - the region from which i come - and i would like to express my full solidarity with the situation. i hope that this directive will restore fair rights to all the thousands of workers who have unfortunately worked without them and i hope that these rights will be recognised.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de castro. farmers and agri-food producers, as we know, are unfortunately vulnerable to unfair trading practices because the agri-food sector is characterised by strong imbalances in the bargaining power between small and large operators, who sometimes impose conditions on their partners which are not in good faith and fair trade and which can also compromise the quality of the products offered to consumers. the directive we are discussing today will finally introduce a common minimum level of protection throughout the european union by prohibiting 16 unfair practices unilaterally imposed by one partner on another, such as late payment or last minute cancellations of orders. the importance of measures to strengthen cooperation between national authorities and the exchange of good practice should be emphasised in order to ensure the uniform application within the union of the rules and measures contained in the directive, aimed at protecting farmers and ensuring quality products.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the widespread support that has been demonstrated tonight for the agreement reached last december and i look forward to this support being reflected in the vote tomorrow. mr de castro is 100% right when he says that this legislation will protect 100% of eu farmers. it will also protect 97% of small businesses in the agri-food sector. we had two very revealing contributions here tonight, from both extremes of the political spectrum. one from mr agnew, who actually let the cat out of the bag eventually, and revealed the greatest secret that we knew he was harbouring for so long – that the reason why people that share his view in the house of commons have been voting against mrs may’s deal up to now is that they really secretly want to stay in the european union after all. i know that you’re quite correct when you wave the flag there that you say you will be here in a year’s time. that’s thanks to you and the people that actually think like you who are voting against a deal in order to exit the european union. (protests) (addressing mr agnew)no. you’ve got plenty of time to express your view over the years. the second one is mr carthy’s view in relation to this legislation. presumably speaking on behalf of his group, he now is adopting a very isolationist position, where he is actually supporting the strong versus the weak. i’m absolutely flabbergasted at this political stance of sinn féin, in particular, who portrayed themselves as extreme socialists, with great pride, for many, many years. what we’re trying to do here is go in the right direction and help the weak against the strong. i thought that that very principle would be something that could be shared by sinn féin and actually it’s remarkable that he has now put himself in a political position where he’s on the same side as the big supermarket retailers, rather than actually on the side of the farmers who are being 100% protected and the small businesses who are being protected as well, up to eur 350 million turnover. nobody is saying, mr carthy, that this is going to be a panacea for farm prices overnight, but it’s minimum harmonisation at the european union level for member states, including ireland, if you can persuade them, that will be able to do more in this case. member states can go further due to the construction of this directive and i hope that they do so, particularly as mr andrieu and mr loiseau have mentioned, in relation to france. this is an opportunity to bring about much-needed protection for our farmers. with the help of this house, we have seized that opportunity and those who continue to oppose the legislation now make up a bizarre incoherent coalition of interests. mr nicholson is quite correct and so is ms aguilera. this is about protecting farmers and you have to actually start somewhere in order to do this. ms mcguinness and ms aguilera, and others, emphasised that what the commission’s proposal is about, with a strong initiative and support of the farmers, is to respond to calls out there from this house about trying to protect the weak against the strong. we’re strengthening the position of the farmers in the food chain. we’re actually banning unfair trading practices in a number of areas, and i think that 96% of the respondents to our public consultation agreed that we should do this, so i don’t know where the support is for anything other than this. madam heubuch, you are free to make more changes in competition law, as you attempted to do in the trilogue process, and in four years’ time, you will have another opportunity. we have made a lot of progress in competition law in relation to agriculture in the last few years through the omnibus regulation, through the food chain and we will be making further progress through market transparency rules that i will be publishing in the near future. the reality of this is that the course is in front of us, but we will only start to work when the member states take their responsibilities seriously. the eu has done its job, in the words of mr dantin, in a noble cause. now let us join together to ensure the steady transposition of this directive and let us remind ourselves that this is a minimum requirement. mr andrieu, ms zoană and others recalled that it has taken some time for there to be a commission proposal. let me confirm that this is a proposal that has the full support of the commission and reflects what president juncker said in his state of the union speech here in 2015, when we had a milk crisis and a pigmeat crisis, that it was hard to understand how milk was cheaper than water. so we have made a stand and i say finally, mr president, to mr schwab, that i understand his comments coming from his perspective, but there was a much more ambitious proposal that ultimately was put on the table. we have reached a compromise, and there was a very rigorous impact assessment completed by the commission before the proposal was tabled. finally, nothing in this legislation should provide any fear for any sector in the food chain if they are behaving in a proper manner and acting fairly towards the farmer. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i really thank all the members for their comments and i thank commissioner hogan again for his strong support for the european parliament. without this teamwork, we couldn't have done it, fellas. it is only eight months since the proposal was submitted to the political agreement of 19 december, and i would also like to mention the unanimous vote in the agriculture council. i therefore expect a positive vote from all members, including those who wanted more and also those - a few, in fact - who did not want this directive at all. this is the europe we want, ladies and gentlemen. it is europe that helps the weakest firms and ensures that consumers have transparent standards that guarantee quality. i agree, once again, with my colleague mairead mcguinness: it is a first step, and we must apply this directive well. we also want to point out, however, that the directive extends the effectiveness of national laws. so we can remind mr agnew that british companies will now be better protected by the directive, because they will also be protected when they export to other countries in the european union. i thank linda mcavan, because she wanted to remind us of something we are proud of: the directive also applies to producers outside europe and so the protection is extended to all those small producers who may be subject to unfair practices here in europe. in short, dear commissioner hogan, dear phil, with this directive we have achieved a small miracle. it is all the groups that support it, with the one exception of my colleague matt carthy, who i hope will perhaps be able to reflect on during the night. i really thank everyone once again and we hope that a success like the one this parliament has brought home today can be repeated in the future. thank you, everybody.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 march 2019 at 12.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the following: - recommendation by heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (10861/2018 - c8-0445/2018 - 2018/0272 ((nle)) (a8-0083/2019), and - report by heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (10861/2018 c8-0445/2018 2018/0272 (m2m)) (a8-0093/2019).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 march 2019 at 12.30.
the agenda includes the report by mr györgy schöpflin, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european citizens' initiative (com (2017) 0482 - c8-0308/2017 - 2017/0220 (cod)) (a8-0226/2018).
i would like to add my congratulations to mr schöpflin, whom i know very well as a member of the committee. i hope and we all hope that he will soon be able to return to us in good health.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. the citizens' initiative. the effort to exhume it was an opportunity to give a first response to the challenges of the moment. the vast crisis of representative democracy, the offensive of the established powers against intermediary bodies, trade unions or ngos, the demand for direct or participatory democracy, a growing demand and risky only when it is not heard, as demonstrated by brexit and the yellow vest movement. the opportunity has been partly missed and the citizens are showing deep disappointment. the ice has been technically improved: the commission will be able to assess the success of the initiatives. but the power to legislate is monopolized by the commission and the collection of signatures is also in its hands. individual collection systems, although very effective, will be abolished. it's another slap in the face to the ngos. it's like we've built a more accessible smartphone, but it blocks calls. user-friendly not citizen-friendly. the citizen initiative is not killed, fortunately, but remains in a coma. the powers of the union are barricading themselves by closing the door to citizen participation at the very moment when they are glorifying the european demos. it is not a...
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that by amending the regulation on the european citizens' initiative we have lost an opportunity to bring citizens closer to the european institutions. instead of strengthening an instrument designed to stem the democratic deficit which characterizes the present european union, the compromise reached between parliament and the council in some respects weakens this instrument. to date, within the limits imposed by the treaties, there is no obligation for the european commission to submit a legislative proposal on the subject of the citizens' initiative, even though it fulfils all the requirements of the regulation. if the compromise reached were to be confirmed, not only could the request coming directly from one million citizens still be ignored or circumvented, but the system of collecting individual signatures, managed directly by the organizers of an ice, which has been crucial to make the collection of signatures easier in feeding the debate and public awareness on the issues covered by an initiative, would even be canceled. we could also have strengthened this instrument in full respect of the treaties by increasing the number of hearings for each eci to three: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would have given greater prominence to requests from citizens. the arrogance of those who believe that the best ideas for improving our union must necessarily come from the palaces of brussels has prevailed. the commission also remains a player and arbiter in this process. a role which allows it to choose the proposals to be submitted, thereby avoiding any accountability on the part of the citizens and giving them the feeling that the ice is a rigged game from the beginning. we can still make amends, and that is why we will ask the house tomorrow to vote on the amendments we have tabled to reopen the negotiations and to arrive at a text which finally gives value to this important instrument of direct democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mountain has given birth to a mouse again. the reform of the eic could have been a great opportunity to respond to a deep need for participation, to the expectations that the reform proposal had generated in european citizens. but once again, the text of the trilogue has frustrated those hopes, the hopes of those who were waiting for an ice that was finally effective and efficient. yes, a genuine intervention on the functioning of the eic would require an amendment of the treaties to put an end to the commission's absurd double role in verifying eligibility and deciding whether or not to follow up initiatives. but much more could be done, and above all, it could be opened up to civil society. no, in the face of positive technical adjustments, the text under voting is even a step backwards, giving the commission a further monopoly, the monopoly of using and managing the centralized platform instead of the platforms of the organizers, instead of the individual platforms, which had worked so well. well, i remember, in closing, the words of giorgio gaber: "freedom is participation". give greater freedom to civil society and give freedom to european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i bring to you tonight the voice of the people of the marche, the voice of those who trusted in 248 million euros of public money and in a priority axis of intervention specifically identified to support the earthquake-stricken areas of the marche. the erdf regional programme for the region, agreed with the european commission following the earthquakes of 2016 and 2017, provided that this money would go first to the 87 municipalities of the crater area, in order to provide support to the affected populations and activities in the territory. we all know how much we need it, but we're getting some disturbing news. it seems that the regional junta has decided to use a large part of those funds for interventions in the rest of the region. an example of all: of the 45 million euros allocated for strategic buildings, for healthcare buildings, 23 went outside the affected areas. we want to get to the bottom of this. i am sure that the commission will be able to answer this question in due course. it is not acceptable that the damage caused should be compounded by the mockery. we and the people of the marche want the truth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the paris agreement and the emissions trading system, the european union has set a clear course for reducing climate-altering emissions harmful to human health. in the city of taranto, in the south of italy, meanwhile, emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons have increased by 105%. in taranto children are dying, schools are being closed, the right to education and health is being denied and people are being forced to choose between work and health, while the italian government is not following the implementation of the ilva agreement, is not implementing the institutional development contract, is not chairing the verification of environmental and employment data and is not actively using the resources available to the extraordinary administration. i ask the commission to support any technically sound proposal by the puglia region for the signing of a programme agreement for taranto, similar to the one signed with the calais region, which committed resources of one billion euro to promote the region's low-carbon economy.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank president tajani for his letter, which the council received last week. i can assure you that we are committed to promoting gender balance. this is an important issue and the gender balance among the top staff of eu official financial bodies is also a key issue for the council. at the same time, the selection procedures are based on rules that we have to respect. the council has always acted – and will continue to act – in line with all the relevant provisions of eu law as regards its role in appointments. i would also expect all the other institutions involved to act within the legal framework and to do their utmost to promote gender balance. against this background, i was surprised that parliament is raising this issue specifically with the council. president tajani’s letter refers to legal acts that regulate appointments to three eu legal organs. these three bodies are the single supervisory board, the banking stakeholder group within the european banking authority, and the single resolution board. please allow me to clarify that the council is not involved in drawing up shortlists, nor in selecting successful candidates, for any of these three bodies. the shortlists for appointments to the single resolution board are provided by the commission. candidates for the single supervisory board are the responsibility of the european central bank. subsequently, for both of these boards, the european parliament decides on the successful contenders. the council’s role is limited to formally approving the selection made by parliament. as regards appointments to the european banking authority, the council has no role to play at all. regarding the selection of members of the ecb executive board, the council does indeed have a role in the selection procedure. i can assure you that we reiterate the importance of gender balance in each selection procedure and call on member states to propose female candidates. i trust that all eu institutions involved in preparing shortlists and selecting candidates observe and respect the principle of gender balance and that they will continue to do so in the future. as the presidency of the eu council, romania will continue to promote at european level the principle of gender balance, by facilitating debate on possible ways forward and advancing the legislative agenda, especially the negotiations on the directive on women on boards. important progress in this area of action has already been achieved through the consistent efforts of both the council and parliament in relation to the work-life balance directive, on which we have been able to finalise negotiations. we are determined to make our contribution to mainstreaming gender balance on the eu agenda in order to ensure a fair and equitable environment in our societies and within our labour markets.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, including vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner moscovici, who are in brussels this morning at the ecofin council, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on gender balance in the eu financial bodies. president juncker replied yesterday to the letter sent by president tajani on this matter. first of all, let me emphasise that this commission is fully committed to the principle of gender balance and has taken decisive action in this regard. 39.6% of middle and senior management is now female, up from 30% in november 2014. the number of female directors-general has increased from 14% to 30%, from five to 12. the number of female deputy directors- general has increased from 8% to 42% – it means from just three to 20. we also agree that women continue to be particularly under-represented in executive positions in the field of banking and financial services. women only account for about 15% of private executives. the under-representation of women can also be observed in the public sector entities in this field. women rarely make up more than a third of the governing bodies of most national central banks. the under-representation of women can be observed in a similar way in the applications for positions in eu agencies active in this field. on average, there are four to five times more male candidates than female candidates. on the specific cases you are debating today, i would like to stress that it follows from article 283/2 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union that the commission plays no role in the appointment of a new member of the executive board of the european central bank. as regards the european banking authority, the commission’s role is limited to assisting the board of supervisors in relation to the appointment of the chairperson of the european banking authority. for the single resolution board, currently chaired by a woman, the commission is indeed entrusted with providing the european parliament with a shortlist of candidates for the positions of chair, vice-chair and other members of the board. in line with the relevant regulation establishing the board, appointments are to be based on merit, skills, knowledge of banking and financial matters and on relevant expertise and experience. moreover, in line with article 56/4 of that regulation, candidates shall be chosen on the basis of an open selection procedure which must respect the principles of gender balance, experience and qualification. the commission is strongly in favour of supporting women with the necessary qualifications reaching top positions. we have taken this into account and rigorously respected the legal requirements in the selection procedures, and we have kept the european parliament informed at all stages of the process. in the cases of the chair of the european banking authority and the position of board member of the single resolution board, several candidates, including female candidates, failed to meet the eligibility criteria, often because they did not have the required minimum professional or senior management experience in the field of finance. we look forward to continuing the cooperation with this house on this very important matter. in the cases where the commission has a role in the process, the commission will continue to pay close attention to the issue of gender balance when composing shortlist of candidates for the eu financial services agencies.
i am not saying that we should not vote on the report, but that we should vote on the report. the problem is much more complex. in particular, as the commissioner has pointed out, we are faced with an under-representation of women in all top positions and at all levels, but certainly in private companies and in economic, financial and monetary institutions this under-representation is even higher. the problem is how to reverse this trend because, if there are no applications, i also understand that there is no other way to do it. in order to have applications, we must make it easier for women to pursue careers, especially in these institutions. we must tell girls that they can study economics and have a decent career, because if you tell them "look, if you study economics you will not be able to get ahead", nothing happens and in the end we do not have applications. i therefore ask the commission not only to adopt the right attitude but also to promote it at european level, to ask the member states to promote women's studies in technical, economic and scientific subjects at european level, if we are to have the right applications.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to waste a single second of my time, but i must do so to express the shame and even the indignation of hearing such shamefully backward voices in this parliament when they speak about women. i would say, however, that it is a defeat for us to close the legislature, once again, with the usual film. parliament is asking for it, but the commission admits it, commissioner jourová and the council are not listening, given this macroscopic absence of women in financial institutions. and i have to say that what is at stake is not an abstract principle of fairness that is worth defending, because sometimes principles have their foundation, even if abstract, but it is a discourse of fairness and it is a discourse of general interest. i don't think it's an act of goodwill, we're not here to ask for this or a gesture of attention: it is about recognising that the presence of women is inclusive of institutions, it strengthens them, it makes them more solid. i would just like to quote a study carried out by consob (the italian stock exchange regulator), a study which clearly shows, scientifically, that companies with women on the boards are better able to withstand the crisis and have better results... (the president cut off the speaker)
the next item on the agenda is the debate with the prime minister of the slovak republic, peter pellegrini, on the future of europe (2019/2515(rsp)). prime minister pellegrini, thank you for coming. commission president juncker, friends, it is important for us to have a debate with the slovak prime minister on the future of the european union. the european parliament, mr pellegrini, is the heart of democracy. we want to know, as well as the position of the commission, as well as the position of the french republic, the position of every member state of the european union. this is an open debate. as you know, for us, for the future, it is important to strengthen the position of the european parliament. in terms of content, immigration is a key point. parliament approved reform of the dublin rules, and we have asked for a decision by the european council, but at the same time we want to do more work in africa. we want to invest more money in africa. the other important point is social policy. we are strongly committed to combating youth unemployment. for this, we need to work in favour of the real economy, but at the same time we need to work against climate change. this is an important commitment for the european parliament. we are talking about the future of the european union during a time of difficulties. today, parliament will vote on china policy. this is important for us, and there are other important points on our agenda before the european elections. brexit is one of the most important. yesterday prime minister may was here. on this point, it is important for us to know the slovak position. prime minister, thank you very much for coming. you have the floor.
the prime minister of the slovak republic. mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, before i make any final remarks, let me answer one question that has been raised here: what is slovakia's role? what is the role of the v4 countries, but what should be the role of all the leaders, all 28 and 27 countries of the european union? the main task, for me and my colleagues, must be to ensure that the people of our countries live well. that is the only clear objective with which we take over the leadership and the mandate and that is the only one with which we have to get up in the morning and go to sleep at night so that our citizens can live well and peacefully. and so, please, i always respect when we talk about someone or something, whether we have accomplished that goal first, so that we can then engage in uplifting and noble debates about some other matter. how can you force european union citizens to discuss some pseudo-topics unless they're living off a paycheck or they're out of a job or as seniors who collect their pension here, they live in poverty. let us first settle these matters and then we can bring into our debates the noble and great issues that, of course, belong to modern society, but unless we have done our homework that europeans will not be happy and live well, let us first do this homework. and i'm glad that people in our region are starting to live better than they did before, that our region is prospering economically, socially, culturally and socially, and i'm appropriately proud of that. and thank you for your words of support to all those who supported us and who also stood by the slovak republic in some comments that already exceed the powers of a particular member, sometimes even the standards of decent behavior. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the european union will remain for slovakia, for us, a pillar of stability, freedom and prosperity. yes, i am aware of our weaknesses and mistakes, and also of the shortcomings of the european union, but we want to tackle them together as part of the further construction of the european project. we have common challenges economic, social, environmental, here in these areas, please let us seek unity together. i would like to stress once again that technological development is extremely important and that we must not fall behind the rest of the world. if we are talking about cohesion, please let's not bring politics into this and whether or not someone wants to continue in cohesion. cohesion was created to help us to eliminate the great regional disparities not only between member states but also within member states. cohesion should not be held hostage to political games. if we have to regret that the process of reducing regional disparities in the european union has stopped, it is a terrible news that it has stopped, so to debate what the future of cohesion should be is perverse. ladies and gentlemen, cohesion must be maintained as long as regional disparities remain as pronounced as they are. and until then, we are obliged to eliminate these regional differences between the different parts of europe, until we eliminate them completely, and then we can engage in a debate about whether or not cohesion should still exist in our european space. in conclusion, let us all try to be as close as possible to the citizens, to the people who will be deciding who will occupy these important seats in a few months' time. and i want to assure you that as prime minister of the slovak republic, i will do everything to ensure that slovakia continues to be a positive and constructive voice from central europe.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before we vote, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the shameful injustice suffered by nasrin sotoudeh, a former sakharov prize laureate, who was sentenced to four decades in prison and 148 lashes for defending women's rights in iran and for calling for the abolition of the death penalty in iran. so i think that this parliament, through your authoritative voice, through the authoritative voice of the president of this parliament, must immediately express its absolute condemnation of this shameful sentence in iran, and i think we should immediately call for the immediate and unconditional release of nasrin sotoudeh, because it is truly incredible! iran is once again proving to be a bitter enemy of women's rights and this is truly intolerable, mr president.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i really thank all my colleagues for the extraordinary cooperation which has led to the wide adoption of this directive. without this fundamental teamwork, we would not have been able to achieve what may have seemed difficult, if not impossible, to achieve today. it is only 11 months since the proposal was tabled and we can finally say today that we have given a concrete answer to the demands of european farmers, producers and consumers which have been ignored for too long. this parliament, mr president, has achieved a small miracle, but it is only a first step. we must now build on the results achieved and ensure that they are properly applied in our member states. this is the europe we want: a europe that supports the weakest businesses and protects our consumers, with transparent rules that ensure the quality of products and the sustainability of production processes. i hope that this will be followed up in the future with the same commitment, the same seriousness and the same cooperation on the part of all.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i wish to present, on behalf of my group, a request to proceed to the votes on the amendments, in accordance with rule 59 of the rules of procedure, and to request that the vote be taken by roll call. i believe that the current text has some flaws, as denounced by several non—governmental organisations, and my group has tabled amendments aimed at improving it. the amendments touch upon important issues: in particular, preserving the individual online collection systems; requesting the commission to carry out real legislative follow—up in full observance of article 11 of the treaty; and allowing citizens’ initiatives to propose the modification of ongoing legislative proposals.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been arguing from these benches, in complete isolation, that it is absolutely dangerous to introduce into our european union a country which has no prospects of joining, not because, as we said at the time, perhaps erroneously or in a rude way, 'all of turkey is not part of europe': a relevant part of turkey is certainly europe, so much so that even during fascism it was called to the great convention in rome in 1932 on the idea of europe, turkey was also invited. but it was a different turkey, a secular turkey. it was not the turkey led by erdoğan, with his dream of an islamic caliphate, the turkey that scares, that breeds and probably let in terrorists, the turkey that you find out today to be the country of lawlessness, of anti-democracy. you chose that one to entrust to refugees from syria and other countries. i commend you on your hypocrisy. it's actually the temple of the prison, for those who don't think like the government, starting with the 150 journalists in prison. what a shame!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes at a very opportune time, with the recent expulsion from turkish territory of as many as three german correspondents who were declared undesirable by the country. it is a confirmation of how turkey is probably still the worst country in the world for journalists, with as many as 68 of them in prison. the purge of erdoğan is not going to stop and it seems to be going particularly hard in the media, which is trying to discredit the president-sultan. this is a very serious fault, especially as we are only a few weeks away from local elections, which are already very complicated due to the unstable economy. not to mention the other incredible and well-known human rights violations. the one in ankara is truly an exceptional case, ladies and gentlemen. turkey remains a candidate country for membership, despite the fact that the facts tell us that this simply should not be possible. the only small consolation is that this is not happening because of this parliament. in these difficult years, the rapporteur, kati piri, has wisely handled a complex dossier. but i want to remind you that already in 2016 we had asked for a temporary suspension of the negotiations, which became in 2017 a formal request for suspension, a position that we will confirm perhaps tomorrow. but all these are empty words, because the ball is in the council's hands, which in recent years has made the most courageous political choice of doing absolutely nothing, hoping perhaps that somehow things would improve on their own: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i do not mean that relations with turkey, which is obviously a strategic country, should be severed completely. i am convinced, however, that new and alternative forms of dialogue and cooperation are needed, which will put an end to an accession process which has lost all credibility and legitimacy. we must send a serious and unambiguous signal. we should have done this a long time ago, actually. it is clear that the wait-and-see strategies are not working and are not only not useful to us, but also not to the turkish people, who are the victims of this situation and who may one day have to account for our inability to act decisively and in a timely manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the league said no to turkey's accession to europe, and it will continue to say no to turkey's accession to europe because it is a crazy, criminal project: to think of bringing a 100% islamic country into europe is something that would destroy the west once and for all. the league says no because one in five turkish citizens say they like isis, because three million refugees are present in turkey, because the european court of justice says that more than three thousand crimes and human rights violations have been committed against children, against women. so these are some of the reasons why we will always say no to turkey's membership of europe, and it would be crazy, it would be criminal to think of continuing to go ahead with a project that has already seen 15 billion euros of european citizens thrown away to convince turkey to join europe. we use this money for the needs of italians, for the needs of europeans and not to throw it away... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is leyla guven, who has been on hunger strike since 8 november 2018. we are also on hunger strike to demand that mr öcalan be released from the isolation he has been suffering in turkish prisons for more than 20 years. what we can see in turkey is now a permanent state of emergency following the coup, which was used to stabilize an authoritarian regime. i personally went to ankara to try to attend the trial of the two hdp presidents who are also detained, as are many other hdp mps, selahattin demirtas and figen yuksekdag. it was not possible and we were denied access. today i will go to greet and meet the people here in strasbourg who are on hunger strike in solidarity with leyla guven and to demand that abdullah öcalan be taken out of solitary confinement. i think this parliament must take a stand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the resolution adopted a few weeks ago, i was wondering what the main task of the european parliament is in helping to solve the venezuelan problem. the first thing to do, i think, is to take this debate away from a purely propagandistic and instrumental dimension. i think that in the present political impasse it is urgent to find a democratic way out of the crisis through free and credible presidential elections, in the knowledge that the solution can only be peaceful and democratic. there are no other options and there cannot be any other options because they would cause more damage and suffering to the population. humanitarian assistance is also essential, and it must be allowed through appropriate channels. these are the two options on which the european parliament can give its opinion. i insist . other hypotheses would be nothing but unnecessary and harmful forcing. in a situation like this, complicated and difficult, i think the only thing that should guide us is political intelligence.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the dimension of hybrid threats, especially those linked to the dissemination of information, is becoming increasingly strategic for our societies, especially now that new technologies have increased the intensity, speed and scope of these attacks in an interconnected global context. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. perhaps a more balanced text would have been more desirable, one that addresses both disinformation and the jihadist threat online, a text that is not limited to a precise list of countries, when we know that there is less and less in this specific domain, especially from those states that often use so-called proxies. finally, it is a text that deals with strategic communication in a holistic way and does not focus, as has happened, on a single geographical dimension, using vague terminology and sometimes bordering on censorship. these are the instances that i think we should be dealing with. but these are not the cases which are covered in this report, because the intentions, which are acceptable, have been partially rejected and, i beg your pardon, not effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, afghanistan is a country which must be close to our hearts as citizens and europeans, if only because of all the fallen from member states and allied countries who have sacrificed their lives there in recent years and whom i would therefore like to remember today. having said that, i believe that afghanistan and the european union need an agreement that supports bilateral political dialogue to consolidate the internal stability of the country, without forgetting, and putting at the centre, civil rights, the rule of law, judicial reform, sustainable development and the fight against corruption. in the context of a rapidly changing central asia, stability in afghanistan is a win-win situation, with benefits for all regional actors. without their involvement, the eu's efforts alone will not be possible, will not be sufficient and will ultimately be much more difficult. the agreement, in addition to stability, has as its logical consequence a precise control of the funds: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the road ahead is arduous, but this is a positive first step and we must keep the doors open to ensure hope and a future for the people of afghanistan.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, over the past year the negotiations on the association agreement with andorra, monaco and san marino have intensified. we aim to finalise discussions on the framework of the agreement by june. then it might take an additional two years for negotiations on the very high volume of eu legislation to be adopted by our partners. as rightly pointed out in the report by mr lópez aguilar, we enjoy excellent relations with these three small—sized states. the three countries are proud of their history and independence, yet we also have much in common. we are part of the same european family and it is only natural to seek an even closer partnership with them. we appreciate their desire to seek full integration into the internal market. andorra, monaco and san marino have made considerable efforts in the past years towards financial and economic recovery and towards preparations for the future association agreement. for example, they have already transposed, or are transposing, certain eu internal market rules. in line with parliament’s draft recommendations, we continue to encourage our partners to seek support from member states for the acquis takeover and implementation process. this will require strong administrative capacity, and cooperation with the eu countries can be of great help. we welcome the fact that the draft recommendations emphasise the importance of preserving the overall integrity and homogeneity of the internal market and of respect for the fundamental freedoms. we fully share parliament’s view and the union will not compromise on the main principles of the internal market. this is also our guideline in the negotiations with the united kingdom and switzerland. any agreement will fall within the limits set by these principles and rules, but within these limits there is certainly room for mediation that takes full account of the specific situation of our small—sized partners. in this respect, parliament’s recommendations are particularly welcome and timely. the european union seeks a comprehensive agreement with full access to the eu internal market, therefore covering all the four freedoms: movement of goods, services, persons and capital. the overall principles are always the same: same market, same rules. there is no such thing as partial integration. the four freedoms cannot be cherry-picked and separated from one another. for the same reason, the eu court of justice should have exclusive competence for the uniform interpretation and application of the agreement, including for last-resort dispute settlement. the commission, as guardian of the eu treaties, should be given competence to monitor the overall implementation of the agreement, including in the area of state aid. in line with parliament’s recommendations and with the eu treaties, we will look carefully into andorran, monegasque and san marinese requests for transitional arrangements on issues such as the right of establishment, the free movement of workers and the free provision of services. these requests should be duly justified and proportional. an association agreement would be a clear win—win situation and a further step towards a more united european continent.
i would like to thank mr lópez aguilar, my colleague and rapporteur. the association agreement between the european union, monaco, andorra and san marino is an important step in the construction of european integration, which today involves these three countries which have always been rooted in the history of europe but which have hitherto been outside the unitary project. in order to improve the text and to further strengthen cooperation, also through dialogue with my political family party, the party of socialists and democrats of san marino, i tabled and two amendments were adopted on crucial aspects such as scientific research and the interaction between the european parliament and the parliaments of the three states. the negotiations may provide an opportunity to put in place measures for investment in infrastructure of common interest, as well as academic research and scientific exchanges. it is also necessary to provide for regular hearings of national delegations to the european parliament throughout the negotiations. it is therefore essential that the integration of these three countries proceeds as fruitfully as possible, including in the areas where we may have disputes or mutual demands. in today's world, the more united we are in the european space, the stronger we all are.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the adoption of the recommendations would be very useful and timely. i would like to thank the honourable members for their speeches, comments and suggestions made today and in the committee on foreign affairs on 21 january. i am very grateful for parliament’s political support for a swift conclusion of the association agreement negotiations with andorra, monaco and san marino.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 march 2019, at 12.00. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr morten løkkegaard, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to accessibility requirements for products and services (com (((2015) 0615 - c8-0387/2015 - 2015/0278 (((cod)) (a8-0188/2017).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european accessibility act will bring tangible benefits to over 80 million people in europe who have disabilities or functional limitations. computers, mobile phones, but also banking services and self-service terminals will have to meet harmonised accessibility requirements in order to be used in europe. from online shopping to transport, from banking to the single european emergency number, all citizens, including the most vulnerable, will be provided with the same conditions and opportunities of access at the same price. we could certainly do more about the time taken to implement these standards, which are too long, and about the accessibility requirements for the built environment. in this respect, parliament's position was certainly better than that which emerged from this trilogue. however, the accessibility directive, while not sufficient, confirms to us that there is a fairer europe, one that is more human and that guarantees the fundamental rights of the people who need it most.
member of the commission. – mr president, we have come a long way to reach this result. the negotiations between the council and parliament have been intensive. we all had to show flexibility and willingness to reach an agreement. i know very well that many of you would have liked to see more areas covered or more ambition on certain points. in fact, the commission’s proposal was more ambitious, so i can understand some of your concerns. but the perfect is sometimes the enemy of the good, and we must see the substantial progress we are making and will continue to make. the accessibility of many everyday products and services will be felt by everyone in their daily lives. everyone should benefit from the digital revolution. no one should be left behind as our society is changing. these changes to accessibility requirements are so obviously good, so obviously necessary, that people will soon say: why did we not we have them already? i call on you to support the european accessibility act.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 march 2019, at 12.00. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the urgency of an eu blacklist of third countries in line with the anti-money laundering directive (2019/2612 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a truly impressive spectacle, namely this game of countries entering and leaving the lists as in a game of cards, which graphically represents the lack of will, the opacity of the intervention of the european institutions on such a delicate and so important and serious subject. it is enough to recall the warning also sounded in our committees by a leading figure such as the then director of the geneva anti-drug agency, who said that all international drug trafficking passes through the laundering, the banking system, certain sectors of the financial and banking system. but as long as the taxation of offshore financial centres continues, how can the european union take clear and decisive action against the whole network of countries which allow money to be laundered and which are therefore a haven for terrorists, criminals, drug traffickers and arms dealers? that's the point. i would point out to the commissioner that the fifth directive introduces the requirement of the availability of beneficial owners of companies and legal entities as a qualifying factor. are you sure that in luxembourg, for example, it is so easy to trace the real owners of offshore companies? it is so certain that in our countries, in the countries of the european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to see that the european commission has finally published a blacklist of countries at risk of recycling worthy of the name. we find it absurd, however, that this parliament has had to repeatedly denounce the lack of a genuinely independent and autonomous process for judging states which posed a threat of financial crime. after several rejections, the european commission has finally succeeded in formulating a more exhaustive, though not complete, list with a more independent methodology. the publication of the new blacklist is a step in the right direction but should be seen as only a first step. it should first be clarified that it is necessary to ensure that natural and legal persons from countries on that list are subject to stricter controls when carrying out activities within the union, given the strategic deficiencies on anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing in those countries. moreover, much remains to be done to ensure that all lobbying activities in certain countries do not water down the capacity of the european institutions to act autonomously and independently. finally, the process needs to become even more transparent. we therefore ask the commission to publish its assessments of the countries on the list to ensure public scrutiny. i am glad that before the end of this parliament's term another important step forward has been taken in the fight against money laundering, a heinous crime which enriches criminals and puts those who act lawfully out of business. it is a crime that must be punished and to which i have devoted much effort during this mandate, including the dismissal of a directive - the one on combating money laundering through criminal law - which will enable law enforcement authorities throughout europe to investigate and prosecute the crime more effectively. i take this opportunity to renew my call on the member states to ensure that the text is transposed swiftly and correctly into their national legal systems.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes the speedy work of parliament in preparing the reports on the three important files that we are going to debate tonight and specifically on the new asylum and migration fund. many of the issues i will underline are of a horizontal nature and concern all three funds. i would like to stress that i hope the council will also soon adopt its negotiating mandate. migration and security continue to be among the main concerns of our citizens today. we need enough resources to support our actions in these areas in line with our political priorities and in complementarity with all eu funds. in the current period assistance has been provided to approximately one million asylum applicants. furthermore, integration support has been provided to 3.4 million third—country nationals. none of this could have been achieved without the support of the union’s budget. things can change and evolve and our funding has to be flexible, simplified and adaptable. therefore, we propose a reinforcement of the overall budget for migration, border management and security of more than eur 36 billion for the period 2021—2027, out of which eur 10.4 billion for the asylum and migration fund. this reflects the political importance that the commission attaches to better managing migration, borders and security challenges. i know that this view is also shared by parliament. the asylum and migration fund specifically will provide support for strengthening the common european asylum system, legal migration to the member states and provide integration support for third-country nationals. within these objectives it will provide incentives for integration measures at local and regional level, such as language courses and civic orientation courses, and it will support resettlement and solidarity with member states. the fund will also help to counter irregular migration through returns of persons that do not, or no longer, have the right to stay in the union. however, in order to succeed, in addition to more budget we also need to ensure flexibility for our funds. we need financing instruments that will be able to support eu policies and priorities as they develop until 2027, financing instruments that will be able to support our member states when they are in need. i cannot emphasise flexibility enough. this is why flexibility is built into all three funds that we will be discussing tonight through the thematic facility and the mid—term review, allowing us to allocate 50% of the funding, based on evolving needs and eu priorities at the point in time. at the same time, there will be enough upfront funding – 50% – to member states to support actions quickly and allow them to plan long—term investment. we have also proposed to simplify the implementation. the management of the funds will be simplified by using a single rulebook for the implementation of shared management funds. we have also built in synergies. we have worked to deliver a coherent and complementary approach to the migration and security objectives of the union in different eu funds: areas such as integration of third-country nationals, anti—radicalisation measures, cooperation with the partner countries, to name a few. while the commission at this stage reserves its position, we must underline that parliament proposes a number of important obstacles to the flexible use of the future funds that the commission cannot accept. minimum spending percentages are an obstacle to flexibility. member states have different needs and experience different levels of pressure. they should be able to channel eu funding where it is most needed. in addition, this proposal would make the funds even less flexible than in the current period and would add an administrative and monetary burden. by the same token, building strong partnerships with countries of origin and transit has been a key feature of the european union’s migration policy from day one. close cooperation with our partners is key to be able to respond to these challenges. i want to explicitly stress the following: setting a maximum limit for external actions and allowing cooperation only in exceptional cases will not only impact the flexibility of the fund, but also the achievement of the migration and security objectives of the union. moreover, we have proposed a very high conditionality of 30% of absorption for member states to benefit from additional funding at the mid—term and we have introduced rigidities in the thematic facility, including to implement it through delegated acts that is not legally possible. it is more important than ever that we get it right and design our instruments to withstand the test of time.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, for her work on a very important dossier, and my colleagues in the committee on development, with whom we have tried to ensure that the new external dimension of the fund takes account of the possible impact on third countries and does not overlap inappropriately with the instruments for development cooperation, which must remain geared to eradicating poverty without conditionality on returns and readmissions. the increase in funds available to strengthen the common european asylum system is good news: the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of the rights of refugees and migrants. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the return policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the return policy. the proposal adopted by the libe committee is therefore already a major improvement on the commission's text, incorporating the integration and the creation of legal and secure access routes in the title and criteria.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new amif fund, with an allocation of over eur 10 billion over the next seven years, should be a starting point for finally creating a common asylum and integration policy based on the value of solidarity between member states. as we know, migration is a global phenomenon which requires a unanimous european response. the amif funds will have to continue to finance integration projects at local level, especially the best ones, such as the sprar model in italy, which minister salvini is cancelling with an absurd decree that is bringing only insecurity. empty and close the reception centres, evacuate the buildings, is this what the italian government and minister salvini call security? does this mean that we have to find a long-term solution to the migration problem? of course not, commissioner, because the populist forces on the right of this house and this chamber, which are in government in italy, want to leave the immigration question open and unresolved in order to be able to carry on a permanent electoral campaign. that is why they did not want to resolve the dublin issue, and that is why they are allying themselves with the kaczyński's, the orbán's and the kurz's in europe. look at this room, mr. speaker. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. i would like to thank the commission again, thank you again, commissioner, for the work you are doing, and thank you to mrs dalli.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his work. the successful management of migration flows by the european union is also based on effective reception and integration policies. policies which are implemented in a spirit of solidarity and in full compliance with the provisions of article 80 of the treaty. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european union's migration strategy, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy, the european neighbourhood policy and the european neighbourhood policy. the common asylum system needs to be reformed in a fairer and more effective manner, including by strengthening the protection of vulnerable asylum seekers, such as children and women, by supporting integration strategies and more effective legal immigration policies, and by creating safe and legal pathways. with the increased flexibility we have given to this fund we expect the different governments of the european union to direct their funding towards the priorities and actions of the union with significant added value for the whole union. by creating a de facto solidarity policy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the schengen area is one of the main achievements and one of the most tangible results of european integration. the proper functioning of the area without external borders must go hand in hand with a high level of security. this requires the implementation of common measures on the crossing of internal borders, external border controls and a common visa policy. this instrument also contributes to the union moving towards a common and integrated management of the external borders, while safeguarding the free movement of persons within its territories, in full respect of the union acquis and international obligations. we are firmly committed to the safeguarding of fundamental rights and freedoms. the instrument should be implemented in full respect of rights, in particular ensuring respect for the principles of non-refoulement, transparency and non-discrimination and the right to seek international protection.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s speedy work in preparing the report on the internal security fund (isf). thank you for your introduction, ms hohlmeier. i have already underlined, in the debate we have just had, certain issues that concern all three funds, such as the need for flexibility and synergies with all the other funds. as i said, i hope too that the council will soon adopt its negotiating mandate. i will now set out some issues that more specifically concern the internal security fund. over recent years, security threats have intensified and diversified. they are increasingly cross—border in nature, meaning that member states can no longer act alone. while protecting citizens is a national competence, the european union plays a vital role in supporting member states’ efforts. security will remain a defining issue for the european union in the years to come and europe’s citizens rightly expect their union and national governments to deliver security in a fast-changing and uncertain world. we need sufficient resources to support our actions in the area of internal security, in line with our political priorities and in complementarity with other eu funds. therefore, we propose to reinforce the budget for security, increasing it from eur 1 billion in the current period to eur 2.5 billion in the next period. this reflects the political importance the commission attaches to addressing security challenges more effectively. however, things can change and evolve. therefore – and i believe this view is shared by parliament – it is of the utmost importance that our funding is flexible, simplified and adaptable to changing needs. how will the isf better support new and emerging challenges? it will focus on three new objectives: increasing the exchange of information, intensifying cross—border joint operations and strengthening capabilities to combat and prevent crime. it will be more flexible, through the thematic facility and the mid—term review, allowing us to allocate funds on the basis on evolving needs and eu priorities at that point in time. last but not least, security is a cross-cutting issue, touching upon several policy areas and involving a number of different eu funds. it is more important than ever that we get it right and design our fund to withstand the test of time.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs monika hohlmeier, for her work with us. in recent years, threats to security in europe have intensified and diversified. the challenges facing the european union can no longer be left to the member states alone. on the contrary, a strong and coordinated response at union level and adequate resources are needed to prevent and combat this evolving sector. but how can an adequate level of security be guaranteed? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including measures to prevent and combat terrorism, serious and organised crime and computer crime, and to provide assistance and protection to victims of crime. but the countermeasures are not enough. a high level of safety is also ensured through preventive, coordinating and cooperative measures. the contributions from this fund will enable member states to counter violent extremism, including radicalisation, intolerance and discrimination, in particular through increased cooperation between public authorities and civil society in all member states. we are firmly committed to respect for fundamental rights and human dignity. this fund shall be implemented in full respect of the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and of international obligations. that is why we have included among the activities eligible for funding the education and training of law enforcement personnel in fundamental rights, including measures to detect and prevent all forms of racism.
in writing. the challenges to the internal security of the european union have increased significantly in recent years: i'm thinking of complex and changing threats like global terrorist networks, new forms of organized crime or cybercrime. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in this context, the increase in the internal security fund (isf) is an important financial instrument through which the eu can support cooperation and coordination between member states' law enforcement authorities. as highlighted in the report of the special committee on terrorism, the exchange of information needs to be strengthened through greater use of joint law enforcement operations between member states (think of joint investigation teams) but also by investing in adequate staff training and facilitating the exchange of best practices. in order to combat terrorism in the long term, it is also essential to extend the scope of the fund to measures aimed at preventing violent extremism, for example through interventions in prisons and in the digital sphere. i would like to conclude by stressing that the military forces responsible for internal security, such as the carabinieri in my country, must also be able to benefit from the fund's support, since they deal with and prevent various types of threats to the security of the union on a daily basis.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the metaphor of the boiled frog is familiar to us all, and it is very familiar to citizens outside the european institutions, who are demonstrating to protect their future. but it's the best metaphor for what's happening, because we're literally cooking our planet on a slow fire. the question we must ask ourselves, given the multiple responsibilities at the global level, is this: but have we, europe, done enough? have we done enough to secure a future for this planet and to secure a real transition to an economy that is truly zero-emission, in terms of production and consumption, in terms of society as a whole? i'm afraid i don't think that you do. i do not think so, because the objectives we have set ourselves to date are only on paper and are not sufficient to guarantee a lowering of the temperature, and those to come have yet to be decided. i only make one appeal: i ask my colleagues, the commission and the council to say enough of austerity policies, enough of limiting investment in energy efficiency and renewables, because they are what will save us for the future, enough of counting them as debt, we must cut them out of the stability pact. i'll be in the square on friday, marching with all the young people.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 21 and 22 march 2019 and the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu (2018/2976 ((rsp)).
thank you very much, michel, especially for your work as european parliament negotiator. i also thank the parliament's brexit steering group, chaired by guy verhofstadt. i thank all its members for the work they are doing to try to solve this very complicated and very important problem for all of us.
madam president, for the second time, the uk government has not been able to find a positive majority in the house of commons. it has been a big mistake not to try to bring all the forces in the house together in the interests of the country. instead, the uk government has decided to appease the tories’ hard brexiteers, a strategy that backfired spectacularly last night. mr henkel, you are wrong. as michel barnier said, the eu has always been a fair, transparent and constructive partner in this negotiation. we have done all we can to guarantee an orderly withdrawal of the uk that protects citizens. we have a specific and particular responsibility to keep protecting all the european citizens in this process and to preserve the peace process in northern ireland. we have also taken into account, of course, the uk government red lines. let me repeat this: this is the only withdrawal treaty that is possible and the only one that could command an approval in this house. so what’s next? first, we still trust the uk parliamentarians today to reject a no-deal brexit. that would be catastrophic for the uk. second, we need a clear direction on how, concretely, to avoid the no deal scenario. we always said that a closer eu-uk relationship based on a customs union would not only benefit our economies, but would also solve many of the concerns associated with the backstop. it is time to stop party politics and to work constructively in the interests of citizens and the country and if this is not possible, it is clear that the only alternative is to give the people the chance to change the government or to say no to brexit. this is the debate we need to have, not the debate on the length of the extension. this, for us is clear: the extension is a tool and all the options are on the table as long as there is a clear political reason and perspective. we will keep working constructively, openly and responsibly, including our uk citizens, who remain european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is time to ask ourselves what the root causes of brexit are, because we have heard statements in this house today, but we have also heard statements from macron, juncker and the whole mainstream, who have blamed brexit on information that would have misled and confused the will of the people of the united kingdom. but the people of the united kingdom have always made their views known when they have decided not to join the single currency, when they have not joined the schengen treaty, the fiscal compact. the people of the united kingdom have always consciously reacted against the austerity policies and the budgetary constraints of a franco-german european policy. that's what you should be thinking about. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. if we continue in this direction, in the direction of austerity, then brexit risks being just a precedent for the final dissolution of europe.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr barnier, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before this european council, many questions are being raised, and at least two of them are of crucial importance for the future of the european union. brexit, first, with theresa may's defeat yesterday and the probably inevitable extension of article 50. i think we shouldn't continue a torment that has been going on since 2016. so we must give the british people a voice again. i call on my colleagues in the house of commons to tackle the fundamental question of giving the british people back their voice, their voice to be heard, to know in which direction they want to go. it is clear that the commons are stuck, they cannot define what they want. the only way out is to give the people a voice and to hear their views, even if many of our pro-brexit colleagues here are afraid to give the people a voice again. the second issue which is very important, and certainly more important than brexit, for the future of the union is that of climate change. we are going to adopt some essential measures, but i think we must also learn to change our operating rules. we must intervene in the european semester, in order to focus it on the environmental objectives of sustainable development of the european union and the united nations, without turning it into a semester on austerity.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, having listened very carefully to the speakers, i come to the conclusion that there is very broad support in this parliament for the way the commission is negotiating on behalf of the european union, its member states and this parliament to try and reach an agreement with the united kingdom on a withdrawal that would do as little harm as possible to both sides. this has been the intention of the commission from the start, this has been the way michel barnier has been negotiating from the start, and we feel strengthened in our approach by the debates here today. having listened to mr farage and his colleagues, and seeing the hubris with which he stands here and the self-gratification of his position, i sometimes wonder whether he has gone to sunderland and talked to the workers at the nissan plant and said to them, ‘it might cost you your job, sorry, but i’ll get my pipe dream of so—called sovereignty’. has he done that? has he gone to oxford to the mini plant and said, ‘i know what bmw are thinking if there’s a no—deal brexit, but i want it so badly, this no—deal brexit, that i really don’t care about your job’. has he done that? that would have been the honest thing to do, i suppose. (applause) has dr liam fox ever said, ‘well, i said it would be the easiest trade deal in human history but, on second thoughts, it’s much more complicated than i promised before the referendum’? has boris johnson gone to the doctors and nurses of the nhs and said, ‘i did promise you an extra gbp 350 million a week but, sorry, i can’t deliver on that promise’? have they done that? i think, frankly, if we want to come out of this situation, we would need a bit more modesty and honesty on all sides. (applause)i just referred to a report by the uk government, published in november last year, where it said that a no—deal brexit would cost approximately 9.3% of economic growth. are you willing to pay that price? i ask the brexiteers: are you willing to pay that price? are you willing to sacrifice all those jobs for your pipe dream of so—called sovereignty? what is that sovereignty going to bring to you if you live that pipe dream? (interjection from mr coburn: ‘freedom is irreplaceable, sir, freedom is essential’) (the president interrupted the speaker)
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, well i did! i did listen to mr coburn and he says ‘liberty is more important’. then have the courage and go to sunderland and talk to the workers in the nissan plant. talk to the workers in oxford in the mini plant and tell them, ‘my so—called liberty is more important than your jobs’. have the courage to do that, sir. then also go to ireland and go to a place where, since 1998, peace reigns and violence has disappeared and tell the people there ‘my pipe dream is more important than your peace and quiet. my pipe dream is more important and i will accept a hard border if that gives me my no—deal brexit’. have that courage. do you know the number 16.1 million? i never hear it mentioned. i always hear 17.4 million. yes. but 16.1 million are also british citizens who voted to stay. they haven’t disappeared. isn’t the essence of european democracy that we also respect the position of minorities in our countries? isn’t the essence of democracy that we try to build bridges and to find solutions that can be carried by most people in our society? should those not be the next steps we take in this? to be very clear: why does the commission stand so firm for the integrity of the internal market? why don’t we simply say ‘let’s have open borders’? i give you one example. if for some reason the united kingdom would decide to have a trade deal with the united states on their terms and chlorinated chicken would be coming into the united kingdom and we would not be able to check that at the european border, then we would not be able to say to european citizens that we could protect them against something they didn’t want. we could never do that. that’s why we have always to protect the integrity of the internal market. we’ve been bending over backwards and we spared no effort – and i do pay tribute to michel barnier – to try and reconcile mrs may’s red lines and her demands with our firm duty to protect the european union and the integrity of the internal market. the withdrawal agreement is the best and only possible solution to that dilemma and i hope that this is something that will be well understood. this is a position the commission defends on your behalf. the vast majority of this parliament supports this and we will continue to do that: to protect the interests of european citizens, whether they live on the continent or in the united kingdom. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their remarks and comments. i will inform the president of the european council accordingly. it is clear that brexit will be a pressing issue for leaders next week. beyond dealing with these immediate concerns, it will be important also to address those strategic challenges that will define our common future in the years ahead. in that spirit, the different topics on the leaders’ table will help to inform reflection on our next strategic agenda. the next rendezvous will be the informal summit in seville, which will be a key moment to discuss and start shaping that long-term agenda.
in writing. a quote by einstein that always amused me was: "two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity. and i'm not so sure about the first one". and defending positions of principle is the stupidest thing you can do. toyota, bmw and nissan are just the latest companies, in chronological order, to have threatened in recent days to leave the uk in the event of brexit and may and the british parliament continue to defend the seat as the titanic sinks. no more politics in the house of commons! and british politicians look after the real interests of the united kingdom. we are facilitating an agreement between the two majority groups so that something acceptable to the european union is put forward to grant an extension. we facilitate an honorable exit. this uncertainty cannot continue for us, for you and for our citizens.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, i supported this agreement between the european union and afghanistan. i believe that we must support the government of afghanistan, which is trying to stabilize the situation in that country and to calm the civil war. i say this as a czech who is proud that hundreds of czech soldiers are contributing and are part of the peacekeeping missions that are operating in afghanistan today within nato, and they are risking their lives for peace in this country. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has today adopted this agreement and i hope that it will contribute to the fact that peace and some compromise with the taliban can finally be found in this country, although i am personally sceptical and believe that it will be very difficult to reach an agreement and compromise with this organisation.
there can be no explanations of vote on the zdrojewski report because there has been no discussion. so it's not expected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the new asylum and migration fund for the period 2021-2027, with its budget of ten and a half billion, has introduced important innovations, for example by inserting the principle of solidarity in the legal basis. more specific attention is being given to integration policies beyond first reception, with minimal resources devoted to the european asylum system, integration, solidarity and also development towards third countries, but with respect for fundamental rights. but i think that the commission must now ensure that these guidelines are respected by the various governments, in particular by our government, the italian government, which is currently cutting funding for integration, for second reception, for solidarity and for municipalities and non-governmental organisations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every five seconds a person dies worldwide as a result of exposure to air pollution. over 700 people die every hour. the consequences of these climatic conditions are undeniable, since 90% of the world's population is exposed to air pollution. air pollution causes 7 million premature deaths worldwide every year, including 600 000 children aged five and under: more people die from aids than from war, murder, tuberculosis, and malaria combined. i remember the words of us president trump the day after his inauguration: when he pulled the u.s. out of the paris agreement, he said, "i have the best interests of the people of pittsburgh at heart". that's not possible. i, on the other hand, care about the interests of all those billions of people who do not pollute, but who suffer the effects of air pollution and climate change. i have a son the age of little greta and one even younger. i 'm afraid that one day they 'll say to me: "dad, your generation is even dumber than the previous one", the one with the atomic bomb, so to speak.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote is a confirmation from europe. we have seized the opportunity offered by the association negotiations with the republic of san marino and demonstrated the value of a strengthening of relations and integration with the european union. our friends in san marino have always been at the heart of european history and our partnership with the union has always been based on a set of common political and cultural values. the negotiations must continue. we will conclude a joint political declaration before the end of this mandate recommending that the commission and the european external action service conclude the negotiations as soon as possible and in any event within the next two years.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our position on this second version of ttip has not changed, but the commission's position has obviously changed, since agriculture will be included in the agreement from american sources. of course he is! we know, it's too much for the americans. but you see, we're not the ones who have to reach out to the united states. we've already done our part by importing 77% more of their soybeans and 181% more of their natural gas. now it's time for them to come to us. before we even begin negotiations, we want the u.s. administration to suspend tariffs on steel and aluminum and to cease all hostile action on our cars. shall we make a new deal? that's great! but let us cancel the old mandate, start from scratch and cancel forever the infamous ttip that has terrorized the people of europe for years. and for the love of god, we don't sell our farm.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must be very careful, because we will not allow you to circumvent the opinion of this house and the peoples it represents and thus open trade negotiations with the united states of america which are in reality a kind of 'escamotage' treaty which puts health and the environment at risk, which allows the unconditional entry of agricultural products and fisheries from the usa, for example. this is a decision which would be highly illogical, which would further undermine our fishermen and the whole fisheries sector, flooding the european market with cheap fish. a threat we will oppose with all our might. how many times have we said that trade agreements must be made, yes, but in the interests of the european citizens first and foremost and provided that they create interesting, useful markets for our producers? no matter how many times you ask us, our answer will always be the same: no to a new ttip.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, promoting investment, implementing responsible budgetary policies and well-designed reforms are the priorities identified by the commission, which a few weeks ago published the annual assessment of the economic and social situation in the member states as part of the european semester's winter package. the commission is drawing a grim picture for italy and is critical of the effects of the measures contained in the move by the conte government, which it considers a step backwards compared to previous ones: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the situation in italy has clearly deteriorated from an economic point of view. it is clear that italy (and other countries) needs a change of course and that public accounts need to be improved and reforms must be made. but i think the european commission should do more to help those countries which are not living up to their responsibilities.
member of the commission. – madam president, i take note of this resolution adopted by the european parliament. allow me to affirm that the draft commission regulation is in line with the procedural steps set out in council decision 1999/468/ec on comitology and regulation no 396/2005 and that it is therefore within the implementing powers conferred on the commission in this latter regulation. i would also like to remind you that the standing committee has given a favourable opinion on the draft act and the council has already decided not to oppose it. i find it regrettable that parliament has rejected this measure, which is based on the scientific assessment of the european food safety authority (efsa). such decisions undermine the eu’s well-established, science—based approach to food safety. that is what i wanted to declare in the name of the commission.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of non-performing loans has been widely discussed and identified as one of the problems needed to reduce risk in the european banking system. it should be noted that the main cause of the high stock of non-performing loans was the deep economic recession that hit several member states in the wake of the financial crisis, to which were added the negative effects of austerity policies. in some member states, it is also true that this main cause has been accompanied by poorly transparent credit practices, mismanagement or insufficient prudence. in this respect, several measures have already been taken, both at national and european level, and this is resulting in a significant decrease in the level of non-performing loans. the text we have agreed - and i would like to thank my colleague esther de lange for her cooperation, which has brought us to the end of such a delicate legislative procedure in record time - has two main objectives: on the one hand, to strengthen measures to prevent the excessive accumulation of non-performing loans, and on the other hand to do so by avoiding negative incentives from the point of view of the ability to support the economy or even from the point of view of debtors, who would of course be negatively affected by an excessive downward selling of non-performing loans. what are the main points of the agreement reached with the council? firstly, we have decided to apply this prudential backstop only to new claims arising from new loans, in line with the council's action plan, which called for this. this is logical, because it takes a sufficient period of time to adapt to the new rules, from an accounting and prudential point of view. the second element is that we have in the text a correct and fair balance of reserve levels for the banks. in particular, unlike the commission proposal, provisioning for secured and unsecured loans starts only after two or three years respectively, thus avoiding the risk that prudential provisions will add to the capital contraction caused by the recession, creating a procyclical effect, with negative effects on credit provisioning and the real economy. we have also eliminated the potentially negative (or perverse) incentives in the commission's proposal which would have accelerated the liquidation of firms which were only temporarily unable to repay their loans, but which were actually solvent, with negative consequences not only for the companies themselves, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, but also for economic growth and employment. last but not least, i would also like to mention an element we have introduced, namely a more favourable prudential treatment for those non-performing loans which are bought on the secondary market by other credit institutions, so as to avoid an unfair penalty for specialised operators and at the same time provide a higher level of protection for consumers, smes and all other debtors, since these institutions are subject to strict controls and regulations. in conclusion, this is a balanced text which helps us to take another important step forward in reducing the risks of the banking sector, while avoiding negative consequences for the real economy and consumers. that is why we call for support for the text.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i myself and my group are very concerned about the measures that will be applied with this package on non-performing loans, firstly because the impact study has not been done, and therefore the impacts on the housing market and the impact on consumers, businesses and european citizens are all to be checked, because incentivising the sale of non-performing loans in a short time, compared to sound management that banks could do internally, also involves a speculative mechanism. we know that there are several funds that have also advised the european central bank and the ssm during the stress tests, which are very interested in getting their hands on these packages of nonperforming loans. i would not want the houses, the real estate, the assets of the citizens to go into the hands of these speculators. and since we are talking about risk reduction, i wonder where the risk reduction on derivatives, for example, that the big european commercial banks are carrying is and when this blessed risk sharing will come. we look forward to a risk-sharing arrangement on the guarantee of joint deposits.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs on their work and dedication and the shadow rapporteurs for their support in the negotiations on this file. let me close by stressing that this legislative initiative proves that the union is indeed united on the need to take decisive action to make its banking sector stronger and more stable, with the capacity to withstand future shocks, wherever they may come from and with the capacity to lend to the real economy. this is an important ingredient in future economic prosperity and also a resilient economic and monetary union.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate has shown that we have indeed adopted a balanced text. we've heard a little propaganda from both sides. some people say that it is too harsh, and i would like to say frankly to mr valli that i am serious, because everyone knows that this is a text which has softened the commission's proposal and is more balanced than the ecb's addendum, and so to accuse us now of having made a text too harsh is propaganda. at the same time, i have to say that i agree with mrs de lange: we have not seen all these colleagues come forward to tell us that we should have done something tougher at the time of the negotiations, except of course now to say that we were too soft, too lax. so the truth is that we took the responsibility to deal with a very difficult, very sensitive issue and we were able to do it well and quickly. and this is a positive example of the capacity of this parliament to produce legislation and also to be, in some way, a subject that when something does not work well, some authorities, some trends, some positions, solutions that maybe may be good for some conferences but then produce problems and negative impact on the real economy, this parliament knows how to correct and balance the necessary reduction of risk and non-performing loans, on the one hand, with the safeguarding of financial stability, the interests of citizens, debtors, small and medium-sized enterprises and produce a regulation that i think will have a significant impact, on the other hand, in greater prudence and therefore in disincentives that can then lead to an excessive accumulation of non-performing loans, but at the same time it does so in a sustainable way, in a manageable way, without negative impact on the real economy. so i would like to thank mrs de lange, the commission and all the other members who have supported this work, and also the council, which has allowed us to make a trilogue at record speed (perhaps the fastest trilogue in history), with which we have been able to quickly incorporate this regulation into the official journal, as will be the case shortly.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we as a group cannot accept the rationale behind the establishment of this european monetary fund, which is a replica of the european stability mechanism, which is being institutionalised. in principle, what is being done is to give conditional loans which, as mr papadimoulis has rightly said, have humiliated the greek people to the extent that the european stability mechanism, the commission and the monetary fund have lent this money in return for what? of reforms, of tears and blood, of wage devaluation, of a devastating social impact: the commission's admission of guilt about this type of mechanism. you want to institutionalize this principle, thinking that making it more democratic makes it more flexible. this is a great crime. we should completely revise this type of construction and start by analysing the deep imbalances within the eurozone, because there are imbalances and we do not need these instruments. it is true that we need real democracy, but you are not demonstrating that at all by proposing this european monetary fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry, but what is the purpose of a new european monetary fund? are there any other german and french banks that need to be bailed out? no, thank you, we've already given our share. we have already had this experience with the bailout fund in 2010, where under the pretext of bailing out greece and bailing out spain, italy had to pay out 60 billion euros in three years, which went straight to the vaults and to french and german banks. the spanish and french have not seen a single euro of these figures. the new monetary fund will increase financial instability rather than reduce it, because the granting of loans in exchange for austerity is a real blackmail that france and germany are using against countries in difficulty, forcing them to restructure their economies and further deplete their political sovereignty. then we will come back here in this house in a few years' time and we will have to listen to the next president of the european commission apologising, once again, as juncker did to greece, which he destroyed together with the international monetary fund. experience has shown that austerity prescriptions have stunted the recovery and triggered the recession. so now is the time to change course and allow member states to pursue expansionary economic policies to combat unemployment, poverty and social and economic inequalities.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little funny to hear our sovereignist colleagues who claim the decision-making autonomy of their own states forget that the european monetary fund - which will not be called that, because it will continue to be called the ssm - has been used so far essentially by decisions by the member states and not by its full incorporation into community law. this report starts from this very consideration, from the difficulties which have arisen in the management which is essentially intergovernmental, and it wants the new monetary fund to have the legitimacy which it deserves. in this report i would like to stress the importance of bringing this back into community law, even if not yet satisfactorily. in any case, we must give parliament a real right of supervision and action. do you need more? yes, of course, starting with the name, which is no longer the european monetary fund, but is still called the same as before. there is certainly the usual confusion about names that our institutions always produce. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. of course: the 'sovereignist' is the one who thinks that within the european union, competences should be transferred to individual states or managed intergovernmentally. i am a federalist, and i believe that the sovereignty which the states are no longer able to manage must be transferred to the community and thus be effectively managed. the coin is certainly one of them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019 at 12.00 hours.
the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the state aid rules to the airports in question.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, we have strict and rigorous rules on fair competition within the european union to protect non-discriminatory access to services for all companies. however, we note that the same reciprocity is not always guaranteed in other countries and that it is difficult for our authorities to take compensatory measures or to monitor measures taken outside the union, even within the framework of bilateral agreements between the parties. i therefore think it is important that action is taken to review regulation (ec) no 868/2004 and to introduce more concrete and effective measures, both in terms of initiating investigations and in terms of remedial measures, especially if we consider that the existing regulation has never been used. if we want to protect the right to connectivity of our citizens and ensure fair competition for our companies and our industry, it is therefore absolutely essential to have effective and effective controls.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019 at 12.00 hours. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, history seems to be teaching us nothing, especially in nicaragua. there, in 1979, in reverse, it was the current president daniel ortega who risked his life in guerrilla clothes to oppose a dictatorship that was strangling rights and oppositions in blood. now the sandinista daniel ortega has no enemy to fight, no dictator to depose or the contras and the cia to confront. he's the dictator now. meanwhile, the country is torn apart by killings, arbitrary arrests, enforced disappearances, torture and widespread censorship, not to mention the constitutional reforms that have allowed ortega to perpetuate himself in power, far beyond the limits allowed by the constitution. i mean, there's nothing missing. it has all the ingredients of dictatorship. a dictatorship that the world cares little about, because nicaragua is one of the poorest countries on the planet. a dictatorship that relies not on the support of the people to stay in power, but on the support of snipers, who shoot at defenseless protesters and kill hundreds. in the light of these serious criticisms, i believe that the council and the commission should immediately take individual sanctions against the officials of the regime responsible for the serious human rights violations in progress.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are about to discuss certainly contains much that is shared by a country in turmoil which, many say, will be the next venezuela. but there is one omission: the fact that this regime has for decades given shelter to the worst terrorists, including the red brigades, the terrorists who have bled our country to death, is not something that everyone knows, that international public opinion knows, and that the european union has almost always tried to ignore. there is an appeal from the last chairman of the moro commission, and that is to bring back to italy, finally, after many appeals and many pressures from italy, one of the most dangerous brigadiers and one of the few still in total freedom, who has never spent a single night in prison, namely mr alessio casimirri, who lives quietly in the pack but the pack is perhaps over, we hope! is the luxury and successful restaurateur in managua. you do not mention this scandal, perhaps also because there has been another member state of the european union for a long time that has given the same hospitality. but in this case it would be time to speak up and to intervene. we are asking, together with the italian government, that europe demand the immediate extradition to italy of this criminal, of this murderer. it is time for europe to wake up and end its deadly attitude towards these terrorists, whom you have never dealt with, when the relatives of the victims of terrorism from italy are pleading for justice to be finally done. this is truly a shame. you must immediately remedy this most serious omission in the face of international public opinion, the victims of terrorism and the assassination of president moro.
in writing. the situation is evolving from hour to hour in nicaragua, in what has been called "the other crisis", compared to the perhaps more striking events in venezuela. the situation is worrying but there is a glimmer of hope: and that's what i want to focus on. the negotiations are going on at a leisurely pace and at the moment the opposition is not participating in the negotiations, but after the surprise visit of the envoy of the organization of american states, and the possibility that the oas will become a guarantor of the dialogue, i am hopeful that the situation can be unblocked and the process can resume. because we need to be clear about this: there is no other form, there is no other way and there is no alternative to dialogue. defecting from the negotiating table or using it merely as a means to buy time are not tolerable options, not when hundreds of political prisoners are still in prison. and to expel international monitors who are trying to shed light on the more than 350 deaths and 1400 injuries last year is not acceptable. it will also be our task to keep an eye on this negotiation and the situation in general, so as not to let political games become more important than people's lives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing and voting on the amendment of a very important regulation, both because it lays down uniform rules on divorce, legal separation and marriage annulment and because it deals with disputes over parental responsibility in cross-border situations. the council's text can be considered satisfactory overall. the majority of the amendments we have tabled are in line with our views and are moving in the right direction. we think it is good that cases involving children, and in particular the abduction of children, are being dealt with much more quickly and that there is a better coordination of the national central authorities. we also think it is right to encourage the use of mediation where it is obviously possible. it is absolutely unacceptable, however, that there should be a clear and glaring disparity of rights between european citizens, as is happening today. the same rights and the same legislative advances that we are highlighting here do not apply to same-sex couples or to those who have entered into a registered partnership. these persons are in fact completely excluded from the scope of this regulation and consequently will not be able to benefit from judicial cooperation in family matters. they are excluded from the scope of the main union legal instrument governing matters relating to divorce, legal separation and marriage annulment, and disputes concerning parental responsibility. we are in fact defining that there are a-class citizens and b-class citizens, and these enjoy lower rights. this is completely unacceptable. we have tabled several amendments to extend the scope of the directive, but they have been found inadmissible. we believe that this is a grave mistake and that it is wrong not to extend to all and all the same rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today there are more than 16 million families in the union with parents who are nationals of different member states. this is a positive effect of european integration, which nevertheless requires an appropriate legal framework to regulate family disputes and to better protect children when, unfortunately, families are disintegrating. the commission's most recent figures show that there are about 1 800 cases of international child abduction per year, that is, cases of children who are the subject of disputes between their parents. the recast of the brussels iia regulation updates the previous framework, simplifies procedures, including return procedures, and introduces positive innovations, in particular by imposing on the judicial authorities the obligation to hear the child, although - and this is regrettable - the provision could have been supplemented with a reference to the modalities of the hearing and to precautions to avoid interference, disturbance or trauma to the child. it is also worth noting that the judiciary is further obliged to promote family mediation to resolve conflicts between parents, also and above all in the interests of children, because children must always be protected.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s annual strategic report on the implementation and delivery of the sustainable development goals (sdgs). this comprehensive and detailed report strongly encourages the eu to lead the implementation of the 2030 agenda and ensure that sdgs guide eu action for the years to come. the report is timely. the european parliament elections are around the corner. the preparation of the eu’s strategic agenda for 2019-2024 and the institutional priority setting for the next eu policy cycle are on the horizon. the eu has fully committed itself to delivering on the sdgs and it is time to decide how we implement these global goals during the next eu policy cycle so that we can live up to our commitments. the commission published the reflection paper towards a sustainable europe by 2030 to inspire this debate. we put on the table three indicative scenarios to lead the discussion on how the implementation of the sdgs in europe could best be achieved and what the most effective division of roles would be between the eu level and the member states when moving forward. let me underline that these three scenarios all rely on a shared premise in the commission that we need enhanced commitment in europe if we are to secure a sustainable future and achieve the sdgs by 2030 and beyond. we are in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution. the question is whether we are a victim of change or whether we will embrace and guide it. it starts by diagnosing the situation and facing up to the reality, and undeniability of the facts. i want to be very clear. these facts should not instil in us worry and fear, but inspire us to act with expedience and determination. the core sustainability challenge for europe, as well as for other most developed parts of the world, is to find the way to increase our prosperity and to improve our wellbeing without destroying our natural habitat and exceeding the boundaries of our planet. we only have one planet. in order to address this challenge, we must move quickly from a linear to a circular economy. we have to put our food system onto a fully sustainable path and we have to green our energy, mobility and built environment. to do this, we also have to gear all our key enabling policies and tools towards the sdgs. these include education, science, research, innovation, digitisation. they also include finance, taxation, pricing and responsible business conduct, new business models. and our trade policy as well, obviously. any transition must be socially fair and leave no one behind. there is no sustainability without social sustainability and being who we are in europe all our actions need to fully respect the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, as well as inclusiveness, facts, evidence. let us now move forward with confidence and optimism, for europe is the best place in the world to lead the way to sustainability transition. we have it all. we have the skills, we have the brains, we have the people, we are the best connected continent and sustainability is deeply rooted in the european project. in the months ahead, we need to reach an agreement on what and how should be done specifically at the eu level in the next eu policy cycle. the european parliament’s report clearly favours the first scenario presented in the commission’s reflection paper which proposes an overarching sdg strategy to guide all actions of the eu and its member states. the member states too will have to make up their mind. this will help the next commission plotting a clear course for the development of a comprehensive eu sdg implementation strategy, a strategy that the european council has called for. i said earlier this week in the informal general affairs council that, in both the way we should organise the commission and our work, the sdgs could be a perfect framework for how we distribute the work and how we make sure that we take the right steps towards a sustainable future for europe. the collective contribution conclusion of the sdg high-level multitask platform, ranging from birdlife to business europe, has made very clear that our people are expecting ambitious action from the eu and its member states. i want to end by saying, let’s not turn this into a left–right issue. this is an issue that is important to the full political spectrum in this house, and that’s how i’ve always felt the support of this house for the sdgs and this is the way forward. i strongly believe in that.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great contradiction between this house (in which we are so few) and the squares throughout europe, where tomorrow thousands of young people will go out to strike, to protest, to draw our attention to the climate, to climate change which threatens our future and to the inequalities which continue to have a devastating effect on the cohesion and well-being of european society. they understood that the fight for environmental justice goes hand in hand with the fight for social justice. this house and politics must live up to the demands of greta thunberg and those young people. what it takes to implement the 2030 sustainable development goals are three things, which i don't see in here yet: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we would need a big green new deal of investment to be able to accompany the ecological transition that is so essential to our economy. it is not just about saving the planet, but also about creating quality and quantity jobs, because the two must go together. since we were in new york for the adoption of the sustainable development agenda, we have been calling - and we are calling in today's report - for a european strategy to implement the sustainable development goals, with a mechanism for coordination between the member states and adequate monitoring of the achievement of these goals. the commission has missed the opportunity to take a step forward with the reflection paper by indicating this kind of direction and by limiting itself to presenting three scenarios as if they were all the same. if we really want to keep our commitments, we're running out of time, we've got to finally have this strategy. the eu should lead the implementation of these objectives at the global level and demonstrate consistency in its internal and external policies, starting with the budget, the multiannual financial framework and also in the context of the economic semester. we have a huge responsibility towards the young people who have been in the streets tomorrow and in recent months. we can't be any less.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainability and the transition to a climate-neutral, circular and socially inclusive economy are fundamental to ensuring the long-term growth and competitiveness of the european union. the 2030 agenda has the potential to do just that, by setting ambitious, global, indivisible and interconnected universal goals. however, the commission has not yet defined a comprehensive strategy for the implementation of the 2030 agenda covering the internal and external policy areas of the european union with detailed timelines up to 2030, nor has it included the sustainable development goals as a general framework in the revised 2017 guidelines. more efforts are needed from the member states and the commission. we need a comprehensive strategy that spans all policies and a multi-level approach to governance. the instruments currently available are not sufficient: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive. the revenue of the next multiannual financial framework will have to be more oriented towards the sustainable development objectives. the road ahead is not easy, but we must do it for the new generations.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank the european parliament, the committee on international trade (inta), the rapporteur, mr christofer fjellner, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the attention, work and time that you have invested into this report on the implementation of the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) regulation. it is a welcome initiative, as it comes at a moment when we are assessing the impact and effectiveness of the current gsp regulation and what possible improvements we can bring to a successor gsp scheme. the eu has had the gsp scheme since 1971. the primary objective, as set out in the wto enabling clause, has always been to assist vulnerable developing countries in their efforts to reduce poverty and integrate into the world economy. the european union’s gsp has undergone several transformations over the decades. a major reform of the gsp took place in 2012, with three main objectives: first, to contribute to poverty eradication by expanding exports from the countries most in need. this was done by substantially reducing the number of beneficiaries and focusing gsp preferences on the most vulnerable economies. secondly, to promote sustainable development and good governance. we increased the attractiveness of gsp+ and enhanced the gsp+ monitoring of effective implementation of core international conventions related to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and good governance. thirdly, to better protect the eu’s financial and economic interests. in this respect, the safeguard mechanism was overhauled to make it more accessible to eu industry. we are now five years into the implementation of the gsp regulation and i am pleased to note that overall, the european parliament and the commission share the assessment that the gsp regulation is successful in meeting its objectives. exports from the more vulnerable economies have expanded substantially, which can contribute to poverty eradication. gsp, and in particular gsp+, is also contributing positively to furthering human and labour rights in beneficiary countries. we agree with your view that trade policy, including gsp, must also be part of eu efforts to fight for values enshrined in the eu treaties, such as democracy, rule of law and human rights. trade policy does not and cannot do this on its own or in isolation. we take great care to ensure coherence between all eu external policies. for example, we ensure that gsp+ dialogues and bilateral human rights dialogues with beneficiary countries reinforce each other, thus increasing the eu’s leverage to push for progress. as the commission’s biannual reports on gsp+ implementation attest, we are seeing progress in all beneficiary countries. however, many problematic issues remain and we will continue to engage closely and firmly with beneficiary countries. i would like to touch on an issue that is very important to us, namely, transparency in trade policy. in the implementation of the gsp regulation, we make considerable efforts to ensure a transparent and inclusive process. we consult civil society in the european union and in beneficiary countries on a very regular basis and we are always open to their input, which we greatly value. we do not always share their views on what course of action should be taken at a specific point in time, but this should not be taken to mean that we do not listen to civil society. let me be very clear: the commission will not hesitate to take its responsibilities when it comes to warranted cases of serious and systematic violation of fundamental rights. our actions in relation to cambodia and myanmar clearly demonstrate this. in this respect, i agree with you that withdrawing gsp must be a last-resort measure. we must now start work on the new gsp scheme that will take effect when the current one expires on 31 december 2023. as we have seen in the mid—term evaluation of the gsp regulation, it is working well overall and this should be the starting point. your report and resolution contains several proposals that we will examine carefully. the next immediate step in this process is to launch an impact assessment to help guide our work on a new gsp regulation. this will include a wide-ranging public consultation. we count on working closely with you on this important endeavour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights and democracy cannot be taken for granted, but must be strengthened by all means at our disposal. the european union is the world's leading promoter of human rights and its trade policies must ensure that they are upheld. through gsp+, the eu allows vulnerable countries to export to europe duty-free. in return, it requires the respect of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour and the environment. i believe that this trade scheme is an important lever for supporting democracy and improving the human rights situation in the beneficiary countries. in some cases, however, despite serious violations, the european union has not suspended preferential treatment. it is therefore necessary to intensify the consultation process on the regular monitoring by the european union of the beneficiary states and to clearly define the red lines of the scheme which, if exceeded, lead to the suspension of the gsp.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to use trade to help developing countries, but we must also protect european sensibilities and prevent a new case like the one of asian rice. it is not acceptable to use poor countries as huge agricultural plantations. we must diversify and create local jobs, developing services and industry. we also need social clauses, because we can no longer allow european multinationals to relocate outside europe to produce where workers are exploited for a few euros a day. i therefore support the idea of safeguard measures not only for agricultural or industrial products but also for the respect of social and environmental rights. but we must ensure that safeguards are activated immediately. in the case of rice, it took five years. in future we will have to be much, much faster, or the europeans will also pay the price.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gsps represent a tariff reduction for developing countries, aid which is granted in return for commitments to standards of human rights and sustainable development, which are often ignored. the serious shortcomings of the environmental management mechanisms for waste from the manufacturing sector, especially the textile sector, in these countries are well known. i would also like to stress the damage and distortion that the european union market can suffer from the recognition of these benefits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i am reminded of the case of rice from myanmar and cambodia, where this procedure cost italy damage and very long labour: 5 years. the procedures for changing the list of countries benefiting from these preferences, by adding or removing them, are also very complex and not very transparent. if europe is really going to improve the conditions of its partners near and far and to support their development, it needs to find coherence. we cannot impose ever stricter and more punitive rules on our companies and reward those who do not respect even the minimum environmental standards and civil rights outside the borders of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, kazakhstan is not only one of the largest countries in the world, but also one of the richest in culture, history and traditions. certainly the peaceful coexistence of different ethnic and religious communities makes this country a model from which to learn. today, however, all this cultural diversity and richness is under great threat from outdated laws and repressive actions against anyone who thinks differently from the government's line. more and more activists, members of the lgbti community, journalists and trade unionists are being targeted without any justification. think of the 2016 protests, when a thousand people were arrested just for peacefully participating in the march. i am thinking of the violence perpetrated by the authorities on 10 may against a group of protesters during a visit by a delegation from the european parliament. think of ardak ashim, the blogger who is currently detained in a psychiatric hospital for inciting discord through her posts, based on article 174 of the criminal code, an article that has not yet been reformed. so i ask you: what is the point of having an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement which puts the emphasis on democracy and the rule of law, if the most important part, respect for freedom and fundamental rights, is increasingly neglected?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nasrin sotoudeh has been sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes. nasrin is a wonderful woman, sakharov prize winner, and she perfectly embodies the definition of a human rights defender. his incarceration occurred just as he was carrying out this activity, with an arrest last june. this verdict, as well as the entire process that led to nasrin's arrest and subsequent conviction, are unacceptable and can only be explained in light of the ongoing harassment of journalists, lawyers, activists and human rights defenders, who have been convicted just for daring to speak out against the government. i urge iran to immediately release nasrin, as well as all those imprisoned for political reasons. ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, with iran we have important political work to do, including defending the nuclear agreement, which was worked out with great difficulty. but in the face of such flagrant violations of human rights, it is imperative that we sound the alarm. the need for high-level political cooperation with tehran must not prevent us from saying loud and clear that certain violations cannot and must not be tolerated.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy and the rule of law are under attack in guatemala. on the one hand, human rights defenders continue to be persecuted, both physically and through new restrictive laws and sham trials, and often it is the interests of multinational corporations that are manoeuvring these vile attacks, and on the other hand we have - or rather, we had - the international commission against impunity in guatemala, which is leading a crucial work in fighting corruption and strengthening the rule of law. unfortunately, however, after submitting new investigations into the illegal financing of the ruling party's election campaign, the commission has also come under attack and been exhausted. perfect timing . right after the election. to add insult to injury, congress is passing legislation that would extend amnesty for crimes such as genocide and torture committed during armed conflict. if congress passes this bill, war criminals would immediately return to sowing violence across the country, not to mention retaliation. it is therefore our task to use the means in our power to dissuade congress from adopting this amnesty act, to ensure that the commission against impunity is reinstated and to protect human rights defenders from attacks by multinational corporations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since her adolescence, maría magdalena cuc choc, now 39, has been fighting for the defence of el estor, a magical place, the land of the maya q'eqchi community. for many years it has been the scene of intense conflict between oil and mining companies and the indigenous population for control of natural resources. like the case of el estor, many others are conflicts over natural resources in guatemala, where human rights defenders are always paying with their lives: 26 killed in 2018 alone, a 136% increase over 2017. further destabilizing the country was the government's unilateral announcement of the termination of the mandate of the international commission against impunity, which was established by an agreement with the united nations in 2006. and above all the absurd proposal to amend the national reconciliation act, which would extend amnesty to all crimes committed by government authorities, including those against humanity. in the light of these events, the risk of a situation breaking out is very high, especially in view of the presidential elections this summer. i call on the guatemalan government to immediately stop the abuses against activists and indigenous communities and on the european union to demand respect for the human rights clause in the association agreement, otherwise we will never be credible to the guatemalan people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say to you, however, that you are also doing your office as president of the house a disservice at the moment, because the gravity of what happened yesterday goes far beyond the mere mention of a european parliament regulation. i would just like to remind you that the fascist regime in italy made its debut with the famous 'bivacco' speech, in which it said it wanted to turn parliament into a bivacco of manipulators. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am speaking on the basis of article 21 and i ask you to allow me to speak because president tajani is an italian and yesterday he offended the people of europe and the people of italy! (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to remind you that the fascist regime in italy has left...
rapporteur. – mr president, the text adopted in the committee has been voted for by a very broad majority. we were accused, the last time i discussed this with mr giegold, of producing a text that is too soft and not sufficiently strong on npls. now we have the opposite accusation. the reality is that this is a very balanced text that would prevent precisely those things about which concern has been raised. so i would encourage the house to vote as the committee did and adopt it by a broad majority.
rapporteur. – mr president i could easily say that in the vote we just had on the resolution, with 407 members against and 114 for, we already decided on the issue that sven giegold proposed – i.e. to postpone. why did such a broad majority decide not to postpone the vote? because postponing the vote, in my view, is the wrong answer to the right issue, because the issue you are signalling is absolutely right. and then the reason why we, in this resolution, have defined an action plan to increase the number of women in top financial positions, and that's the reason why we have been engaging with the council and the commission to have answers, letters and clear commitments for the future on our questions. but, if you look to the specific requests that mr giegold is asking, they are wrong, and i can explain to you why if you just give me five seconds. why should we postpone the appointment of mr laviola, which has been adopted by 88% of the members of this committee? he is qualified. he is a member of a body chaired by a woman and in all the election procedure of this body, women have been on the shortlist.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent scientific studies have shown that fish are sentient animals: they have a complex nature and a rich sensory world and they can experience emotions, but not only that, they also have important cognitive abilities. unfortunately, however, perhaps because of their complexity and mystery, fish have always been underestimated, often ignored and excluded from the protection afforded to other categories of animals. fish are also the most exploited and used animal species. to give you an idea of the phenomenon, some estimates put the total catch at 111 billion fish and the total aquaculture fish at 1.7 billion. these data relate to the european union only. i personally find it almost difficult to assimilate and rationalize the magnitude of these figures. in view of this, we have a strong responsibility towards them, the same as we have towards other animals. however, fish welfare legislation is minimal, and we are far from implementing the measures needed to ensure compliance with international and european animal welfare standards. this is confirmed by the numerous efsa opinions (scientific opinions drawn up by our agency), the repeated evidence of the inadequacy of the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the transport of live animals and of regulation (ec) no 1099/2009 on the protection of animals at the time of slaughter, and also a study by the european commission itself carried out last year. in view of the above, the commission's inaction is no longer justifiable. we need objective, science-based standards, we need high european standards. the possibility of setting minimum requirements through voluntary measures at member state level and on the initiative of industry itself has so far led to very little progress and the little that has been done at times is also disappointing. on the basis of these considerations, we therefore call on the european commission to introduce uniform standards on the animal welfare of fish and to ensure that european legislation is actually respected and implemented.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take the floor again, this time on behalf of my political group and the five star movement. i am reporting on the views of european citizens, because 79% of the citizens want fish to be better protected than they are at present and to be extended to at least the level of protection we already guarantee to other animals that many of them eat. in addition, nine out of ten people believe that painless slaughter is an essential aspect of fish welfare and so these seem to me to be unequivocal figures that the commission can no longer ignore. secondly, there are other things that should not be ignored: there are public health considerations. animals that are kept in unsatisfactory conditions in overcrowded facilities are stressed animals, they get sick more easily, and all of this leads to more use of chemicals, antibiotics, to deal with and contain disease outbreaks. thirdly, the lack of animal welfare standards also has a number of environmental consequences. i am referring, for example, to the algal blooms, the creation of so-called dead zones, real dead zones near aquaculture sites, with possible effects on natural fish resources and biodiversity. i mean, it's time to get active. i think the european commission should do more. the commissioner's answer is unsatisfactory. there are many things that can be done, apart from of course introducing stricter standards and enforcing existing ones: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new directive on the protection of the environment. in conclusion, i cannot but be very dissatisfied and saddened that this house has decided not to make a political resolution to put in writing what we are saying to you today.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we open this debate on the situation of european citizens of african descent by taking the opportunity to highlight the specific form of social exclusion they face. in this introductory speech, it is my task to explain to the president of our assembly, to the members of the commission to which the question is addressed, to the members present and to the citizens the full meaning of the question itself and the way in which the subject should be included in our future parliamentary work. in this connection, mr president, i would like to emphasize the good atmosphere that prevailed in the libe committee when it came to agreeing on the final version of the resolution which will be tabled in plenary during the next part-session. thanks to the effective and competent mediation of claude moraes, we have broadly agreed to the content of the resolution, with convincing participation, in particular, of the alde, gue, greens/efa and ppe groups. of course, there has been controversy. official recognition of the specific history of afro-descendants, the possibility of instituting reparations, the issue of public apologies, but also that of the return of artistic assets to african countries once plundered by european colonizing nations, as well as the issue of declassification of colonial archives would merit the establishment of a european commission unit specifically dealing with these issues and the promotion of full citizenship of afro-descendant europeans. these were, in a broad sense, the questions which animated our discussion in committee, and we can be quite satisfied with the final version of the resolution, the result of serious and competent mediation. it is now necessary to return to the general importance of the question, to reaffirm some of the principles which have led us to treat it. the equal social integration of european citizens of african descent must, in my view, be framed within the requirements of respect for fundamental human rights. the whole point is to guarantee to those who bear diversity the integrity of the human dignity of which they are the undisputed holders. these statements, which start at the very foundations of our political thinking, are motivated by the fact that in europe today, despite centuries of theorizing about rationality and social evolution, there are still values that undermine the lives of people of african descent. often it is said in the middle because it seems unthinkable: however, a specific study by the european agency for fundamental rights has given us evidence of the existence, within european society, of recurrent phenomena of anti-black racism. in addition, in several member states, the daily news is often dominated by incidents of racism and xenophobia, which affect european citizens of african descent indifferently and tend to push them to the margins of society. the scale of the phenomenon is such that no sector of society can be considered immune. the rights to housing, access to decent work and the right to education appear to be particularly violated. in some european countries we have even seen the attempted return of apartheid, with the discriminatory exclusion of children of african descent from school canteens and the attempt to set up separate classes for them. when i referred to the debates in the libe committee, i referred to the question of the historical relations between the european countries, now members of the union, and the african countries, the ultimate place of origin of afro-europeans. this historical relationship has seen, among other things, the post-medieval explorations, the black slave trade, colonization, the total economic exploitation of africa and the thinly veiled forms of neo-colonialism that are in force in our times. the question of migration, which is an essential part of globalisation, has often been the subject of intense debate in this house and in our societies, and has also sharpened our differences of opinion. i believe that the question of full citizenship for black europeans of african descent must be included in this complex of issues, in order to understand its depth, but also to be able to remedy it. often, even among ourselves, i have seen some of our colleagues surprised to hear me say that racism exists in europe, thinking it to be an almost exclusively american phenomenon. yet, in the cradle of humanistic culture, not only are racist and xenophobic acts rife, but in some contexts, they become part of a theory of government... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to remind you that it is the sole responsibility of the institution to remind you that racism is prohibited. i'm going to start here with a concept that very often crosses our society. it is the presumption of guilt, and that is the horrible name for a fact which is spreading like a pandemic in our european society, finding in the existence of stereotypes the reasons for its maintenance. the presumption of guilt exposes many european citizens of african descent to abuse and ill-treatment. sometimes it's hard to talk about it in person, for those who suffer from racism and xenophobia. it is difficult to talk about this because, precisely because of the presumption of guilt, the accusations of victimhood and simulation have been quickly dropped. yet, mr president, there is not a single european of african descent who cannot admit that he has often felt excluded, or simply targeted, because of the obvious difference in his skin. it may also be a collective illusion, but it affects black europeans selectively and exposes them to discriminatory profiles, even by the police. institutional racism, as we have heard; to be rejected for rental housing without anyone having first examined the application. to give you an idea of the depth of the issue, consider that it often happens that during routine police checks, a european citizen of african descent, holding a regular identity card clearly mentioning his nationality, is asked the unexpected question: "where's the residence permit?" there are many such incidents. but i must thank this parliament for the forward-looking regulation we have against verbal racism by elected officials. it is a good practice which must be spread throughout europe and the world, in order to protect the humanity of all men and women.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. my question is very short. i would like the honourable member to say that black people of african descent are not part of europe, that europe does not recognise them. if that's the way it is, then they have a right to be part of this debate. i'd like to hear your answer.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 march 2019.
ladies and gentlemen, before we resume our work, i would like to remember the victims of the vile attack last monday in utrecht, the netherlands, which killed three people and injured five others. i have already expressed our condolences to the dutch prime minister, mark rutte, at the european council meeting last week. today i take this opportunity to express the condolences of the entire house to the dutch people and to the families of the victims of this terrible attack which deeply grieves us. we must also remember the victims of the christchurch massacre in new zealand, in which 50 people were brutally murdered while they were praying in two mosques. these incidents remind us once again that we must not let down our guard in the face of racial and religious hatred: if we are to defend our values and our freedom from this barbarism, we must redouble our efforts against all forms of violence and racial discrimination. we also express our solidarity and closeness to the victims of typhoon idai, which struck zimbabwe, malawi and, above all, mozambique, where it caused many victims and terrible devastation. finally, today marks the 70th anniversary of the mass deportation from the baltic countries, which began on 25 march 1949: in a few days, 32,000 lithuanians, 42,000 latvians and 21,000 estonians, mostly women and children, were deported to siberian prison camps. operation priboi was a terrible crime against humanity, as established by the european court of human rights. and since we are once again forced to remember so many innocent victims, i invite you, as requested by some members, and i share their request, to observe a minute's silence for the victims of these tragic events. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the minutes of the sitting of 14 march and the texts adopted were distributed. are there any comments?
i asked if there were any comments on the minutes. declaration approving the minutes of the meeting of 14 march 2019.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on 21 march 2019, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: the alde group has asked that the debate on the oral question on the situation of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the union, in particular in malta and slovakia, be concluded by a resolution from the libe committee to be voted on thursday.
i think that the alde group is not in favour of holding the debate and therefore postponing the vote. so let us proceed to the vote and it will be up to the house to decide whether, as the alde group proposes, we should have a debate on the rule of law and corruption in malta and slovakia with a vote on thursday. (parliament adopted the resolution) tuesdayin accordance with rule 113 (6) of the rules of procedure, the enf and gue groups have tabled an objection to the report by mrs hilde vautmans on the decision establishing a european peace facility. the deadline for tabling amendments is 1 p.m. on tuesday and the vote will take place on thursday. i propose that the debate be held on wednesday as the last item on the agenda. are there any objections? (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections granted to tercas by the state. the sitting would therefore start at 8.30 a.m.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have explained, we ask that the commission should come to this house on this important issue and decision, which has had a devastating impact in terms of the burning of savings and the effect on confidence in the italian and european banking system. there are hundreds of thousands of citizens who are waiting for an answer, after four years, after suffering the ill effects of this commission decision, which the court of justice has just declared unlawful. we expect a discussion and a response and it is necessary that in a comparison with the house the responsibilities which have led to this debacle should also emerge. i ask that the motion be put to the vote by roll call.
does anyone want to speak against the enf group's proposal? we now proceed to the vote on the request to insert a debate that is scheduled to begin at 8.30 on tuesday on the judgment of the general court annulling the 2015 commission decision on the state aid granted by italy to banca tercas. (parliament rejected the request) wednesday there will now be requests for the mobility package. before the requests, i should like to inform you that, following the decision of the conference of presidents to set a deadline for tabling amendments by 1 p.m. on friday, the plenary services, legal linguists and translators worked day and night throughout the weekend to ensure that almost a thousand amendments were published and the votes were prepared. i would like to inform you that all amendments should be available on the website by 5.30 p.m. today in english. the other languages will be available tomorrow afternoon. the voting lists will be available this evening.
as regards the selmayr question, i have asked the services to check whether the amendments are admissible or inadmissible. the answers i have received and have shared have led me to decide in favour of the admissibility of the amendment concerning the request for the resignation of the secretary-general of the commission, because this is a political request by the authors of the amendment. then the sovereign house will decide what to do. the other amendment directly linked the suicide of a poor civil servant. (sighs of denial by mr eickhout) then what amendment are you referring to?
the amendment to which you refer is directly related to the amendment on suicide, which is why the services i have asked to carry out a check told me that they considered it to be an inadmissible amendment and so i also considered it inadmissible. then, on the political vote - and i repeat, on the political vote - on the resignation of the secretary-general, the house will be voting. ***a group of meps reaching at least the low threshold and the ecr and efdd groups have asked that the debate on the mobility package, comprising three reports by ismail ertug, merja kyllönen and wim van de camp, be taken off the agenda.
the house is sovereign. i also mentioned the problem of translation and how it would be solved. parliament then votes by roll call and it is up to the house, i repeat, to decide what to do. the epp group has asked for a statement by the commission on the security threats arising from the rapid spread of terrorist content online to be added to wednesday's agenda.
i put to the vote the request by the ppe group to add a statement by the commission on the security threats arising from the rapid spread of terrorist content online on wednesday afternoon. (parliament rejected the request of the ppe group)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance has delivered its final report without compromise: europe has a serious problem of money laundering and tax fraud. the eu member states have not done enough to close the gaps in tax rules: in fact, many governments have shown a lack of will to tackle tax evasion and financial crime, blocking legislation aimed at a common tax base and digital levying. the european commission itself has avoided proposing a reform that would have ended the veto power of governments in tax matters, so that seven member states, luxembourg, belgium, cyprus, hungary, ireland, malta and the netherlands, are de facto acting as tax havens and this is a situation that cannot last any longer. europol has too limited powers: the commission is currently coordinating the work of national forces, when they are willing to cooperate. a european financial police force with investigative powers is needed.
in writing. tax evasion, tax avoidance and financial crime have serious consequences for the european budget, unduly draining resources intended to provide services to citizens. moreover, financial crime and money laundering, in addition to depriving states of tax revenues, distort fair competition between businesses and are sometimes exploited by terrorist networks and organised crime groups to fund their illicit activities. i therefore believe that in order to counter these serious threats, member states must further strengthen the exchange of information between national authorities, as well as give full effect to the existing european anti-money laundering directives. in fact, today, technological developments facilitate the mobility of capital by allowing large sums of money to be moved from one country to another in a very short time. i therefore believe that it is essential to strengthen cooperation between national fius and law enforcement authorities by setting up a european fiu to coordinate the flow of information. with a view to strengthening supervision at european level, i also believe that the powers of the european banking authority (eba) should be extended in the fight against money laundering, and that a genuine financial police with investigative powers should be set up within europol.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the resolution we are discussing is one of many contributions by parliament to this subject. the monitoring, however, presupposes that our role is neutral, never electoral, careful to avoid double standards and punitive attitudes, and that the aim is to strengthen national antibodies, without pretending to replace them totally, presuppositions which i do not think are entirely satisfied in the resolution. i'm not asking you to abdicate our role, but to make it unimpeachable. otherwise, the risk is that the european institutions will increasingly be seen as an orwellian power and the rule of law will be perceived as an external imposition to be resisted.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's persistent inability to counter phenomena that threaten the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in some member states, including malta and slovakia, has been repeatedly highlighted by parliament, without the other european institutions having taken appropriate action. we have been advocating for years the need to set up a european monitoring mechanism to prevent and combat certain violations. but once again we are asking the commission what measures it intends to take to address the shortcomings in the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the safety of journalists and media freedom. for example, a phenomenon not confined to malta concerns the golden visa programmes and their impact on the acquisition of eu citizenship, the rights of entry and residence, which have become a bargaining chip to obtain substantial investments from foreign nationals, not always subject to strict control and transparency rules. we need to have precise rules on this, to protect the european union's borders from criminal activities. the fight against corruption must be supported in europe by filling the legislative gaps in preventing and combating the phenomenon and that is why we expect in europe measures such as those contained in the "spazzacorrotti" law approved in italy, which provides, among other things, for the daspo to corrupt in the public administration, undercover agents and total transparency in party funding.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regret to say that i disagree with this proposal for a number of reasons. firstly, there is a lack of an adequate and necessary impact assessment by the european commission, indicating the negative effects that the change in the time schedule would have on people's lives, their productivity and the environment. in addition, this directive would have effects which are currently not estimated and unclear on a number of cross-cutting sectors such as agriculture, trade, where there could be distortions of competition, and energy, which could see an exponential increase in annual consumption. the adoption of summertime in the union will result in considerable savings in terms of electricity used each year and the adoption of this draft law could be extremely harmful in this respect. another unacceptable element is the discretion left to the member states to decide on the timetable they consider most appropriate, since a harmonised framework at european level is desirable both internally and in relations with third countries. in conclusion, i would like to stress that there is no sound scientific basis for saying that the change in time has a negative impact on people's health and safety and that the consultations with citizens have been conducted in an inadequate manner and without a real debate in the different states.
as regards the catch-the-eye procedure, we have made an exception because blue-card questions between members of the same group should not be used. however, because the discussion was particularly engaging, an exception was made. catch the eye procedure
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have listened very carefully to this very passionate debate. before i comment further, please allow me to clarify one very important point. it is a national prerogative to decide on the time zone – today, already, it exists. as it was pointed out today, we have three times already in the eu and this does not represent any disturbance to the internal market. i would very much appreciate it if you take this into consideration when you are commenting on this topic. while i am still noticing some resistance in your comments, i see that after a long and thorough examination, you are ready to adopt your final position in line with the original proposal that was made last year. this is a very important message to european citizens because the response to the questionnaire about the time change was almost ten times bigger than the response to any other questionnaire and any other any other consultation we ever had at eu level. so people do care. we are obliged to respond. this issue can be seen as more complicated than one would expect at first sight. this is mainly due to the division of competences between member states and the union, and that is today. this is not something that the commission came up with for the purpose of this file. it is really important to recognise this division and respect it while making decisions. as i already said, the commission will ensure, within its powers, a close monitoring of the implementation of this directive and we will work together to avoid any transitional disruptions for european citizens and economic operators. i am personally very confident that each of the member states is equally aware of this and they will make well-considered and coordinated choices in the months to come. but it is their choice. all the commission has in its power is to make sure that we all make decisions at the same time. this is something we will exercise. i even encourage member states, in order to be sure which time to choose, to do the national consultations and i believe that the time that you envisioned will be sufficient time to carry them out in a democratic, open and transparent way. at the end, let me thank you, one more time, all of you – rapporteur and members – that you dedicated your time to this file, and by adopting your position, this house will be ready to start the negotiations with the council after the recess. i am sure this will lead to a swift outcome, most likely already under the finnish presidency. good luck tomorrow and thank you very much for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the internal market in electricity (com ((2016) 0864 - c8-0495/2016 - 2016/0380 ((cod)) (a8-0044/2018), the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the internal market in electricity (com ((2016) 0861 - c8-0492/2016 - 2016/0379 ((cod)) (a8-0042/2018)), the report by morten helveg petersen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european parliament (com ((2016) 0493 - c8-049848/2016)), the report by the committee on industry, research and energy (com (2016) 04938)), and the report by the committee on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the european parliament and the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european union agency for the national energy regulatory agency for research and the regulation of the regulation of the regulatory affairs of the energy union agency for the european union agency for the european union agency for the european union agency for the european energy and the research agency for the national energy and research agency for the research agency for the research agency for energy (agency) (a8-0048/2016-0086/2016)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we took the first steps on this crucial package of proposals for the energy union, many months ago, we knew that the road ahead would not be easy. there were and are many interests at stake and many obstacles to the integration of energy markets. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in the field of risk management in the electricity sector, the result i am proud to claim is a reward for the work of this parliament on all the substantive aspects of the proposal. let's remember the theme: today, when there is a sudden interruption in the supply of electricity - and this can be due to a dramatic event, a climatic event, a terrorist event, a particular overload, a breakdown - the member states are left to themselves and to the good hearted - i would like to hear this expression - of the neighbouring countries, where interconnections allow it. the dynamics, as demonstrated by the crisis in winter 2017 in south-east europe, affects european citizens by impacting on the availability of services, energy prices, household financial equilibrium and industrial production. the question was, and is, how to facilitate - in the context of an energy crisis - the movement of energy under certain conditions to where it is most needed in the union, regardless of national political boundaries. as a parliament, we therefore had a task above all others, namely to ensure that the criteria for mutual cooperation in the event of an energy crisis were sufficiently stringent, both in terms of the methodologies for assessing scenarios between countries, and therefore the principle of interoperability, and in terms of the criteria for mutual assistance. i must acknowledge the determination of the council in defending its demands, without however neglecting its readiness to dialogue towards compromise, and the commission's very valuable mediation work at some decisive stages of the negotiations, without whose contribution we would not have reached a framework agreement so quickly. the text for the vote in this house is therefore in the direction desired by parliament. the methodologies for defining country-specific crisis scenarios and subsequently for crisis intervention should be homogeneous, drawn up in accordance with a single model and free from bias by non-institutional market players. the principle of mutual assistance is reaffirmed in even stricter terms, by specifying that the only element of the mutual assistance obligations of the member states is to be recognised only if the infrastructure is not in place and the interconnections permit it. the member states have a duty to assist each other. more detailed guidelines are also provided for the definition of compensation criteria, the nature of which is however left to the discretion of the respective national authorities. we ran the risk that this negotiation would become the instrument for changing the balance in the negotiations on the other files in the package, a danger of which we were - and i was - well aware but which i believe we have overcome, also thanks to the fruitful cooperation with the other rapporteurs. i would like to thank very much president busek, who has given a wise coordination in the negotiations, the shadow rapporteurs for a really excellent cooperation at all stages of this dossier, and commissioner cañete, who has worked with us very well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new electricity market reform package will make it possible to empower customers, simplify the crossborder electricity market, ensure security of supply and facilitate climate-friendly electricity generation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, such as solar panels, wind turbines, solar panels, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, wind turbines, however, i do not think the agreement is ambitious enough in terms of the transition to clean energy and self-production with self-consumption, which should be strengthened even further. the european package should enable the transition from a fossil and centralised model to a decarbonised and decentralised one, with a big step forward for instant self-consumption. the objective, that is, should be to facilitate those who want to do self-production with simultaneous self-consumption within a decarbonised model.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me close by thanking you again for your excellent cooperation and for being such a reliable partner in the course of the negotiations on these dossiers. you have supported and strengthened the level of ambition in the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ proposals, and europe can be fully satisfied with the results. i trust that in your vote tomorrow you will maintain your ambitious approach and thereby remain such an important player in defining our future energy policy fit for the 21st century. this is an example of a key area where europe is moving forward. this is an example of promises made to citizens five years ago that are delivered, and this is an example where the role of the european parliament was decisive in bringing the priorities of our citizens from words to action. for sure, implementation will be decisive, and we will use governmental relations for facilitating the need in the context of national plans for energy and climate. now that the young europeans have taken to the streets, asking governments to take action, and now that the european parliament electoral campaign is going to start, i encourage all of you – european political parties and their spitzenkanditaten – to explain what you have done and to define and develop in your electoral programmes the vision on these vital issues, seeking the views, the engagement and the support of our citizens.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have not much to add to what i have said before, because i agree with what commissioner cañete said and i agree with most of the contributions of my colleagues in parliament who have spoken on the various points. as regards the few critical remarks which have come from one part of this house, although i have listened to them carefully, i would point out that they do not concern the debate which is under way, but the question of whether it is appropriate to create a single energy market, with all the consequences that this entails and with the objectives we have set ourselves. we're discussing how to do this kind of operation because we're convinced. so the debate is moving on to a subject which is completely different and which is not the single energy market. i am pleased to be able to thank my president, mr buzek, again. i would also like to thank commissioner cañete and i saw that the director-general, dominique ristori, has arrived in the chamber. i want to thank him very much because he was one of the people who contributed a lot to the discussion and also allowed me to understand some of the mechanisms better. thank you . we work to implement the things we decide in the next session.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two years after our committee of inquiry tried to shed light on the dieselgate scandal, inertia and inefficiency are the words that best describe the response of the european commission, the member states and the car manufacturers to the emissions scandal. it 's true . we now have new vehicle typeapproval rules based on tighter market surveillance and we are working on european collective redress, which i hope will protect citizens from any future scandal caused by the illegal use of emission manipulation strategies. but the truth is that dieselgate weighs like a rock, because its legacy is still all to be dealt with. as long as the 43 million dirty diesel vehicles remain on the road because of the lack of mandatory recalls throughout europe, as long as the manufacturers have not paid for defrauding the citizens and for polluting the air we breathe in our cities, we cannot put an end to the emissions scandal. we therefore call on the commission and the european governments to assume their full responsibilities to the citizens who, like us, are awaiting that comprehensive answer, which never came, to the work of the emis committee of inquiry. millions of people are asking us to withdraw the most polluting vehicles and are wondering whether europe will have the courage to ask manufacturers to pay for retrofitting programmes, for example.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for tonight’s debate. i found all your questions and comments to be very pertinent. many of you have referred to the infringement procedures concerning the follow-up to dieselgate. in 2016, the commission opened 18 infringement procedures against germany, spain, luxembourg, lithuania, greece, the uk, the czech republic and italy, which had either failed to impose fines on car manufacturers for breaking european union rules or did not fully implement international legislative sanctions on car manufacturers breaking european union emission rules. in 2017 and 2018, the commission sent complementary letters of formal notice to germany, luxembourg, spain and the uk to request further information. a letter of formal notice was also sent to italy regarding the emission control strategy used by fiat 500x euro 6 diesel model. the information received from the member states so far is neither fully satisfactory nor complete, and in addition, new cases of emission irregularities are being reported. the commission will continue to follow up these cases. some of you also have referred to the recalls. our recall information platform was launched on 6 february 2018, and almost all member states are regularly updating the information on mandatory and voluntary recalls and the results of this platform are public. today, only eight member states have issued a mandatory recall for vehicles of the vw group with illegal defeat devices. those are austria, denmark, finland, france, germany, netherlands, portugal and slovenia. in the european union, the wide recall rate of the affected vw models, equipped with the ea189 engine, is at 80% as of 18 march 2019. unfortunately, in some member states, there are still recall rates below 50%. our overall objective is to reach a 100% recall rate and as our first step, as announced in craiova (romania) in the roadmap towards clean vehicles, a minimum european union-wide recall rate of 90% should be reached by the end of 2019. you can be sure that the commission is committed to making sure that we get to the bottom of dieselgate. the member states and industry must take all measures still necessary in order to be able to close the dieselgate chapter. we will continue working on the implementing rules for the type-approval framework. we will make sure that the emission rules continue to be fit for purpose. we will also be vigilant regarding the implementation of the new rules and offer all the support the member states need to put new market surveillance rules in place. but it has to be stressed that implementation and enforcement is primarily the responsibility of the member states themselves, as is the recalling of non-compliant cars from circulation and fixing them. so yes, there is still work to be done and we expect all the parties – member states and industry – to work together in order to be able to turn the page. we count on the continued support and engagement of the european parliament to achieve this goal.
in writing. "nearly two years after the work of the european parliament's dieselgate inquiry committee (emis) was completed, not enough has been done to get millions of diesel cars off the road, which pollute more than manufacturers and approval authorities claim". the court of auditors made this clear in its reflection paper last february entitled 'the eu's response to the dieselgate scandal'. following the commission's decision to open infringement proceedings against germany, luxembourg, the united kingdom and italy, there has been no progress beyond the first stage of the procedure, since the member states have decided not to cooperate sincerely with the commission and it is not understood why, despite the high number of highly polluting vehicles on the road, the recall campaigns of the member states only concern a limited number of cars manufactured by the following brands: volkswagen, renault, daimler, opel and suzuki. the world's eyes are on the european union as a world leader in the fight against climate change. our credibility depends on the answers we can give.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the dramatic situation caused by the xylella fastidiosa on the old olive trees in apulia, the european commission, although it must monitor the eradication delayed by the uncontrolled action of improvised experts, cannot and must not limit itself to allocating funds to farmers and their trade organizations. that's not enough. there is a need for preferential channels dedicated to the financing of field trials of practices which have already proved their effectiveness in vitro or, even better, in the plant health field. there are, for example, practices such as those tried on california vines which could be immediately tested on olive trees. i have just presented a pilot project on this subject and i expect the commission to respond positively to the needs of a devastated sector and territory. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the newly-established system of aid for the coal industry is not used to the detriment of the coal industry.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is quite clear that there was a need for a european copyright reform in the light of the digital revolution. this directive affirms principles that parliament has endorsed several times over the years, in particular the responsibility of platforms and a better balance with the economic environment in which they operate. the media bombardment of the last few days has again tried to divert attention from the real meaning of today's vote. this directive will not lead to censorship or to the limitation of the freedom of the net, which we defend and guarantee. it will not affect small and medium-sized enterprises, nor will it concern the non-profit dissemination of knowledge, such as free encyclopedias on the web. behind the fake news these days are the specific interests of those who want the internet to remain a far west dominated by a few and large platforms. on the contrary, the new rules aim to ensure fair remuneration for authors and creators, who have always been the backbone of european culture and also represent an important part of our economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr axel voss, for the excellent work he has done so far. i think that this can be considered one of the most important battles of the whole mandate we are about to conclude, because europe is creativity, it is work and it is art, and the reason why this battle is the battle to defend the europe that europeans love is because it defends precisely all of this. i would ask those of you who are against this directive to make a careful assessment: if web platforms want to make billions of dollars from ad revenue, they need to recognize the value of the work of those who allow them to make that revenue. so they fight, maybe, to avoid advertising on google: that would balance and make this whole discussion more democratic. and, dear colleague reda, you were talking about young people. among those young people are kids who are now being paid three euros a piece for the great journalism they do, precisely because, at the origin of the supply chain, the platform does not pay copyright. if you want to defend them, defend the copyright.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans must have great ambition with this directive, to make the world understand that even the actors of the digital ecosystem cannot trample on the rights, violate the dignity of people, exploit and underpay the work of others, ignore the effort to invest in skills and professionalism and launch defamation and intimidation campaigns against the representatives of european citizens. we know that today they are trying to protect their billionaire business interests: and if you think about it, the three largest platforms in the united states are raking in 80 percent of the ad revenue and not paying back the rightful owners, the authors and the journalists. we've explained this to the big platforms in silicon valley: it is a battle for freedom, for civility and for responsibility, because it is freedom and cultural diversity that are at stake. it is a battle to protect cultural diversity, the value of intellectual and creative work, the pluralism of news outlets and quality journalism. we're defending millions of jobs for people in the arts, in music, in film, in audio-visual, in publishing, and the survival of free and informed journalism. we responded to a huge fake news that we were restricting access to culture... it's not true! we have extended access and mandatory exceptions to the whole of europe for non-commercial purposes. wikipedia is also deceiving the people of the web.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that i have spoken in the house on the copyright directive. the first time i spoke i was in favour of returning the text to committee, seeking a better balance between the freedom of the net and the rights of those who produce a work of genius, which has been done. the copyright directive is necessary to ensure fair remuneration for copyright in the digital world. my e-mail inbox is clogged up these days with emails from european citizens invited by online platforms, who are opposing with all the strength of their lobbies to preserve the privileges of laws written in 2000, when the internet was something else. the internet is constantly evolving and, even if you want to, because it operates in a virtual world and therefore by definition is boundless, it can never be limited. the agreement reached in the trilogue does not provide for any censorship: on the contrary, it defends the freedom of the net, affirming the principle of responsibility for online platforms and for what they publish.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is it, we are delivering a good text to the next parliament and to the work of the trilogue with the commission and the council with tomorrow's vote. the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund remain the main instruments of european public investment for the period 2021-2027, despite the budget cuts presented by the commission, which remain unacceptable to us in parliament. it is therefore neither a luxury nor a waste of public resources. regional policy supports job creation, competitiveness between businesses, economic growth, sustainable development and the improvement of the quality of life of citizens in all regions and cities of the union. they are the essential tool in the fight against territorial and social inequalities, working to leave no one behind, whether it is a person or a territory, a city or a peripheral community. it was the case with greece, portugal, ireland; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's cultural heritage is protected, and that the european union's cultural heritage is protected. despite the last ten years of austerity, which have reduced the development policies and massive strategic investment for our countries - a dramatic reduction - regional policy has become increasingly important in this context, without which public investment in the less developed member states would have been halved. so we're at the new regulation. five are the priorities: firstly, innovative, smart and inclusive development; a greener, low-carbon, resilient europe that can meet the challenge of the energy transition; a more interconnected europe, improving the mobility of people; a more social and inclusive europe, implementing the european pillar of social rights, for a new welfare, for a new pact between european citizens and europe; a europe closer to the citizens, promoting sustainable development and integrating cities and non-urban areas through local initiatives. the following are the choices at the heart of the new erdf and cohesion policy regulation: we have established a thematic concentration, which provides for all categories of regions to allocate at least 30% of the resources of the objective relating to the environmental challenge; we have introduced elements of flexibility to allow for more local development-oriented policies in those regions that need it. we have increased the minimum ceiling for urban areas and large cities to 10% and at the same time introduced a completely new 5% for small municipalities and disadvantaged areas such as those in the mountains. we have introduced the possibility of financing programmes to strengthen public administrations; we have obtained important instruments under the cpr to allow for ad hoc flexibility to co-finance strategic investments with the structural funds. i mean, i think we did a great job. i really want to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this important effort. it is now our turn, it is time for debate, it is time for a vote, for the debate we shall have in this house and for the vote tomorrow. i know that there are still open questions, particularly on environmental issues, which concern the practical interests of citizens' lives: we'll discuss it and vote. but i appeal to all of you: we must keep the vote on this instrument tightly closed and hand over to the next parliament a truly innovative instrument capable of generating development and growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and all the other members who have worked very positively in committee on a fundamental text. i would just like to make a few quick remarks. the first is to share the negative opinion expressed in the preamble by a number of colleagues on the subject of cuts, which certainly do not give the perspective we imagined we could work towards, even in the past. but let us also make a very quick assessment of three basic issues. the first, which is related to the subject of speed of action: the objective of the approval is to be able to commit resources from 2021. the second consideration is that this regulation must overcome the delays which have characterized the past in terms of commitment and expenditure and, above all, avoid that these delays may affect and have consequences on the situation of the administrative capacity of the different regions. the third and final point is that of flexibility in order to make the best use of these resources at national level, as opposed to the issues of resource depletion.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ... (inaudible) ... in our legislature, namely the adoption and closure of the first reading of the regulation on the european regional development fund. i will speak about the two major criticisms that have been found. first, the share co-financed by the member state is deducted from the deficit calculated in the stability pact. second, the end of fossil fuel funding. how can we present ourselves to our citizens and say that this institution has, for the umpteenth time, rejected fundamental requests for the finances of local and regional authorities? how can we support greta thunberg's fantastic initiative and also the climate strike of our young people, when this house, by introducing dangerous exceptions, actually makes it possible to use the only really redistributive policy of the european union for investments in fossil fuels? for today, for the future, i ask all members to support the amendments on the stability pact and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund are the main instruments for investment in employment, infrastructure and economic growth in support of the regions. in recent years we have worked in the interests of these regions - i am taking my own sicily as an example - which would have no future without the structural funds, and to combat the obstacles which still prevent them from being used, by aiming at simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucracy, but also at levels of cofinancing which would encourage projects to take off and ensure that the threat of macroeconomic conditionality does not kill the territorial dimension. we have a duty to put the states and regions in a position to use european resources, and to do this we must look at the territorial reality which, as experience shows, is now far from parameters which do not take account of real inequalities and territorial specificities such as those of the islands. a reform of the technical assistance mechanism for capacity building of public administrations and citizen services is now indispensable. only then will we reconcile the citizens of europe with the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are speaking here today about something extremely important. we are speaking about the next budget, the next cohesion policy, and the next european development fund and cohesion fund. at the same time, we are speaking not only about money, we are also speaking about the policy, which is based on solidarity. the policy is meant to help the regions where convergence is not yet ‘finished business’, to increase gdp and employment and many other important things. this is not ‘just’ about the money, but rather ‘also’ about the money. we know that in the next programming period there will be less money in cohesion policy, and whenever we face such a situation, we have to think about how to invest the money. the debate here was mainly about this topic. we are all aware that we want to do more with less money, and we need to do more. the value for money principle has to be maintained. it must not be spending; it must be smart and sustainable investment. there will always be the people who see plastic castles. i have always seen thousands, or tens of thousands, of new jobs, investments, growth of european industry, cleaner air, cleaner rivers and many other very visible results of the previous investments from european cohesion policy. it has to be kept, and that’s why when we try to have better value for money so that the investments are to the benefit of the citizens, we need to have that thematic concentration and a clear added value of the investments. i would like to thank parliament for all the good work that hopefully, by the end of tomorrow, will result in a first reading position on the entire cohesion policy legislative package. it paves the way to restart the legislative process on all fronts as soon as possible in october. if we want to avoid delays in launching the post-2020 programmes, not only do the regulations have to be adopted this year, but the programming documents in member states and regions also have to be prepared and adopted in a timely manner. the commission cannot agree to any proposals that jeopardise the efficiency and added value of cohesion policy projects. i have a final comment, coming back to the question of smarter cities or smarter villages. for decades, european cohesion policy has tried to balance fairly the development of urban areas and rural areas, and this should remain in the future cohesion policy. the common provisions regulation introduces a new dedicated policy objective – a europe closer to citizens – by fostering the sustainable and integrated development of urban, rural and coastal areas through local initiatives, which should allow for a well-integrated, multi-sectoral approach to urban development. the strategies are expected to further improve coherence in interventions and strategic planning. the involvement of urban authorities will improve ownership.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that tomorrow's vote will be satisfactory, firstly, because of the broad consensus that the debate has produced and, secondly, because of the criticisms that have emerged from the debate and the amendments tabled. i would like to say this at the end of the debate. on the subject of thematic concentration, we have been in line with the indications given to us by the commission but we have strengthened, as was right, the regional dimension, otherwise it would have been a vain concentration from this point of view, as, i would say to those who have raised the environmental issue, never has a programme concentrated so many resources for the next few years to deal with environmental challenges at local, territorial and regional level: we are over 30% of the resources. in addition, the principle we have adopted in the cpr and the flexibility regulation is very important in order to strengthen cofinancing, free up annual resources and give more power to strategic investment through cohesion policy. finally, i think that a significant result, as all the speakers and speeches have noted, is that we are focusing again on the realities that have suffered the most in recent years, where there have been clear demographic declines but also a progressive deterioration in the role of the state and europe, fewer services, fewer opportunities. we have been there and we want to be there with cohesion policy to bring millions of citizens back to the centre of european politics. that is the effort we are making and i hope that tomorrow's vote will consolidate this trend and allow us, especially with the next parliament, to have a solid report which can open up an important period of development and growth for our europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, e-commerce needs the confidence of consumers to grow, who need to feel protected when buying online as well as in traditional shops, whether they are buying physical or digital goods. these two directives improve the existing protection and make it more accessible to consumers. we also do not add onerous tasks for vendors, especially if they are smes and micro-enterprises. thus, if a defect of conformity is found, the buyer can ask the seller to repair or replace the goods and then have the right to a price reduction or to terminate the contract. on this front, however, we must also strengthen the protection of small retailers and smes vis-à-vis producers. indeed, the costs incurred by the dealers for the repair or replacement may be very onerous and disproportionate to the profits. in addition, in terms of protection, it is now written in black and white that those who buy a digital good will have the same protections as those who buy a physical good. so if you buy music or movies online, you'll have the same protections as if you bought a cd or dvd. for example, if the download fails or the service is of poor quality, you will be entitled to replacement and refund, and this with a future-proof approach, because it will also apply to social media, video and audio sharing platforms and instant messaging services. this is an important result because consumers must have the highest possible level of protection, whatever technology they use.
the court is in session.
i would inform you that, in accordance with rule 187, a group of members equal to at least the low threshold will be submitting a question for a preliminary ruling on the admissibility of the following two reports tomorrow at the beginning of the debate on the mobility package: the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2006/22/ec as regards implementing requirements and laying down specific rules as regards directive 96/71/ec and directive 2014/67/eu on the posting of drivers in the field of road transport (kyllönen report); the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 as regards minimum requirements for maximum daily and weekly driving times, minimum daily and weekly breaks and rest periods and regulation (eu) no 165/2014 as regards positioning by means of tachographs (van de camp report). i repeat that the matter will be raised tomorrow at the beginning of the debate on the mobility package. this is a question of admissibility of the two reports under article 187.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
i was publicly asked last night and again this morning not to interfere with the work of members of parliament.
mr gill, please, we have understood what you are saying. thank you, but there are women group presidents, there's the on. ska keller, there's the one. gabriele zimmer, who are presidents.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we started with the right aim of reforming the copyright directive, updating it, since it is now almost 20 years old, and instead we ended up approving a text that jeopardises internet freedom and fundamental rights. not a great achievement, then, for those, especially like me, who care about the freedom of the net and freedom of expression, the cornerstones of any system that claims to be democratic. the agreement reached in the trilogue is not satisfactory because, while there are some articles that can be shared and which introduce the right changes in the light of technological progress and the advent of digital technology, the other is the presence of the two former articles 11 and 13, which spoil the whole of the directive, because they risk endangering the network and curbing freedom of expression on the internet. that is unacceptable and we could only vote against it. the network must remain free and the five star movement will always fight for this.
mr president, for the first time europe recognizes this odious form of racism against people of african descent, which is unfortunately becoming more and more widespread in europe. this resolution is only the first step towards a more inclusive, multicultural, equitable and respectful society, a society where there is no more room for racial hatred.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and the commission, the court of auditors and the eib for the information they have provided, which has been very useful in the preparation of this report. the european union's action to promote development in third countries is fundamental and important. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. i would like to start by addressing one of the most important issues, namely the fact that the court of auditors, in its annual report, has stressed that the estimated error rate for payments made in 2017 is 4.5%. this is a very worrying fact, which we have been keen to stress in the report. the operations with the highest number of errors were those relating to budget programmes, grants, grant agreements with international organisations and delegation agreements with member states' comparison agencies. the commission should therefore improve contract management, selection procedures and the contract management system. in this context, dg devco should improve the monitoring and evaluation of key performance and outcome indicators by collecting clear and comprehensive information. i would also like to recall that in 2017, some eur 860 million was disbursed under the european development funds through budget support operations. there is a need for quantifiable progress in the development of the countries benefiting from this instrument and this type of aid must be linked in a clear way to concrete actions to combat corruption and fraud. the risk in these operations is high: the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would now like to mention the union's trust funds, to which the european development fund has so far contributed some eur 3 billion out of a total of eur 4. trust funds, while being flexible and useful tools for dealing with critical situations, require, precisely because of their flexibility, strict control both in the definition of the objectives to be achieved and in their implementation. i also believe that it is of paramount importance to increase the traceability of relations with ngos and international organisations. cooperation is important, but i would remind you that the disbursement of funds must be subject to strict and timely control mechanisms. i would remind you that the court of auditors recently published a special report to analyse the traceability of eu funding, which is the responsibility of ngos. the special report stresses that the commission has not been sufficiently effective and that weaknesses have been found both in the implementation of management procedures and in the collection of information on subcontracts. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the court of auditors, the commission and the eib.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it’s a pleasure for me to participate today in this debate on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2017, in the context of the annual discharge procedure, as foreseen in article 319 of the treaty. the council attaches great importance to the discharge exercise. it is important that eu funds are used according to the rules and that expenditure respects the principles of sound financial management. on 20 february, my colleague ms luminița odobescu, the permanent representative of romania to the european union, had the honour of presenting to the committee on budgetary control (cont) the council’s recommendation to grant discharge to the commission. this plenary will hold a vote today and, i believe, will confirm the vote of the committee on budgetary control and grant discharge to the commission. on the one hand, the council welcomes the fact that, for the second time in a row, the court gives a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of payments. additionally, the council welcomes the gradual reduction of the overall estimated level of error, as reported by the court over the last years. on the other hand, the council regrets that the overall estimated level of error for 2017 payments – at 2.4 % – is still above the benchmark of 2 %. the council, therefore, reiterates its wish to see further improvements in the financial management systems and in the estimated level of errors across all policy areas. the year 2017 was a special one, not only because it sits in the middle of the period covered by the multiannual financial framework, but also because of the changes in the control and assurance framework. this was particularly important in the area of cohesion, where the court has introduced a new approach: for the first time, it checked assurance packages submitted by member states for the current programming period. having that in mind, a sustained improvement has been observed in the management of the eu budget over the past few years. the overall error rate for payments decreased in 2017 for the fourth year in a row. the member states and the commission have been able to improve their management and their control systems. this good work has to be kept up. there is, of course, room for improvement, especially in reimbursement—based payments, which still account for the highest proportion of errors. the rules are still very complicated, both for beneficiaries to follow and for authorities to check. a simpler, more transparent and more predictable regulatory framework is essential to ensure the effective and correct management of eu funds. in the same approach, the council takes note of the court’s recommendation concerning the simplification and streamlining of the strategic frameworks that govern the implementation of the eu budget. this is also about making sure that the budget delivers results connected to the objectives of the union. european taxpayers must see that their money is not wasted and, furthermore, is spent on what matters to them and makes a difference. this is why the council supports the court’s recommendation to streamline indicators on the performance of the eu budget and to improve the alignment between high-level general objectives and specific programme and policy objectives, thereby reinforcing accountability for results and increasing clarity and transparency for all stakeholders. increasing focus on performance measurement, however, should not prevent the court from continuing its essential work on the annual reports and providing the estimated level of error for all spending areas both in the current and in the next multiannual financial framework. this is particularly important in headings 3 (security and citizenship) and 4 (global europe), where expenditure is of increasing political significance. going back to the way the budget and the finances of the eu are managed, the council found some important elements of concern. there is a significant level of outstanding budgetary commitments and the budget is also exposed to contingent liabilities. the council would like the commission to improve the payment estimates and to follow the court’s recommendation to provide more information about the situation of liabilities and about the use of financial instruments. this is an absolute must to ensure the transparency and predictability of eu funding. the european parliament and the council seem, in general, to share the same approach. we welcome the improvements that are there for all to see, and we want to see the good work of member states’ authorities, of the commission and of the court, sustained and further improved. we have to send a clear signal to european citizens and taxpayers that eu funds are used in a responsible and accountable manner.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the european court of auditors, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this constructive discharge procedure, in particular mrs ayala sender and her colleagues on the committee on budgetary control. i find your draft report very readable, factual and competent. i would also like to thank the european court of auditors, which has always been a constructive and critical adviser to us, whose advice has been a guide for us, which we have generally followed, and which has also given us a fairer assessment of our work. we have in the 2017 budget year the last year whose discharge has to be decided in this parliament, in this period before the election. i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control and mrs gräßle, who has always been very, very active in this house, for the last five years. let me take a quick look at the situation after five years. we have made substantial improvements in our budgetary management in recent years - operationally the commission, but strategically and with critical proposals parliament, council and court of auditors in equal measure. we've put more emphasis on performance. we have looked at how best to meet common priorities and create added value with our limited resources. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. we have done a lot to simplify the rules and make life easier for all final beneficiaries in applying, implementing and billing projects by using simplified cost options. the adoption of the new financial regulation was a milestone, marked by the leading role played by mrs gräßle in the discussions. this is the basis for simplified programmes in the next multiannual financial framework. we have improved the management of the budget and its efficiency. the error rate has almost halved in the five years and now stands at 2.4%. we will do everything to develop this value further and thus to serve the interests of our taxpayers. we have increased the protection of our budget and created an increasingly robust framework for prevention and for corrections. we have improved the management and control systems. we have also done a great deal to develop the administrations of the member states so that their work can be the basis for our work. the fact that the court of auditors has not delivered a negative judgment in the last two years, but a limited one, is a sign of this general improvement. we've also evolved our coverage. with the integrated financial reporting package, which combines documents with key information on programme performance and budget management and budget protection, we provide you with a comprehensive overview of the discharge procedure. their demands and the court's recommendations have been taken into account in the commission's proposals for the next budgetary framework. ensuring that taxpayers' money is used properly and that value is created for citizens will remain our focus. the current negotiations for the next mff are a decisive step in this direction. specifically for the financial year 2017: the report, ladies and gentlemen, gives a clear picture of the developments, mostly positive developments, in the budgetary management of the european union. we want to make it even clearer to the public what added value a european budget can bring to each of us on a daily basis. the budget is relatively small, but it is very effective because we are creating added value, achieving results which a member state alone could not achieve or could only achieve at a higher cost. a cross-border infrastructure network for rail, road, energy, digital infrastructure, jobs for young people, energy security, the internal market and the digital single market, research in the field of large-scale research, support for smes - all these are keywords where added value can be achieved in a european way, in the team of europe. the report also identifies areas for improvement. i'm not here to make a statement. the first key point is the use of european funds. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the implementation of the financial corrections. this has improved markedly in the last year. we have reached full speed, a planned rhythm, this year. we want to do everything we can to avoid or at least to reduce this trend in 2021 and 2022 by simplifying and adopting the budgetary framework earlier. secondly, we want taxpayers' money to be well spent, and the budget's performance framework is relatively well developed. this is something that we are regularly told by the oecd. we propose further steps with our proposals for the mff. our aim must be to draw on performance data and thereby make the added value demonstrable. thirdly, the error rate. we want to do everything we can to make sure that the error rate is lower. after the programme has been implemented and all the checks have been carried out, we have a residual error rate of less than 2%. we achieved this in 2017 and we want to continue to make this the basis for our budget implementation work. the fourth point is conflicts of interest. i would like to pay tribute to parliament, particularly the committee on budgetary control, for supporting, and even for bringing about, the tightening of the rules on conflicts of interest. we are now taking steps to assist member states in applying the conflict of interest provisions in the new financial regulation and we will monitor and also monitor adequacy in the context of verification activities at member state level. we have therefore called for a major conference with the authorities of the member states on 10 april to discuss concrete measures to be taken in the event of conflicts of interest and to exchange best practice. parliament is very much invited to make an active contribution to this. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is examining very intensively and carefully the complaint brought to its attention concerning alleged conflicts of interest concerning the czech republic. i would point out that it is important to distinguish between acts which may have taken place in the member states before the entry into force of the new financial regulation on 2 august last year and subsequent acts since 2 august. but we are looking at both periods, the present period since 2 august and the periods of the years before. we started carrying out audits with experts from different directorates-general at the beginning of january. these audits are ongoing. we want to see whether payments to agrofert companies fully comply with the conflict of interest rules. it covers the period from 2012 to 2018. as regards the period after 2 august last year, we have asked the czech prime minister to inform us in writing of the specific measures he and his government are taking to avoid conflicts of interest in the first place and to take appropriate remedial measures. we are currently analysing the response received, focusing on the measures the government intends to take to remedy situations that could objectively be perceived as a conflict of interest. in his reply, the prime minister informed us in writing that he was withdrawing from the esi fund council and would not participate in the decision-making or communication on the funds. on the basis of this analysis, the commission will draw its conclusions shortly. i would remind you that as a precautionary measure, the commission is not currently making any payments from the european structural and investment funds to agrofert or related beneficiaries for projects in the czech republic until the situation is fully clarified. the czech authorities are informed and are required to carefully examine the eligibility of expenditure. this is a proactive measure to protect the european budget. it is important to be consistent, but also to be objective and not to prejudge the analysis of the czech authorities' reply or the question of whether expenditure incurred should be corrected. as with all commission audits, we must take due account of the right of the audited entities to an adversarial procedure on the preliminary findings of the audit. if it is found that the applicable rules have not been complied with, we will take appropriate measures to protect the budget, including corrective measures for the past where this is envisaged and possible. we will inform the house of lords, the parliament, in due course. as announced at the plenary session last december, i will appear before the committee on budgetary control in april, and i am prepared to do so after the election, and i offer to give you first of all, in july, september and october, further reports on all our audits and the conclusions and actions taken. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. representatives of the eu institutions were able to explain how they carry out their procedures and compare how this is done best practice. the aim of all the institutions, i believe, is to recruit, appoint and promote competent staff on the basis of ability, performance, qualifications and experience. the appointment of the secretary-general of the commission is a point of particular interest to you in this report. since the appointment, parliament has made several statements and many questions have been asked, including by the ombudsman. we have cooperated fully here as the commission, and have endeavoured to answer all questions in detail, comprehensively and correctly, and to provide access to all the files. my position and ours remains that the appointment was made in accordance with the statute, the case law and all applicable regulations. the secretary-general is exercising his office in accordance with our rules and will continue to do so. the president and all the commissioners have full confidence in him. the secretary-general shall have all the qualifications and experience necessary for this task. we have no intention of revising our decision. it is not possible either, as was recognised here in the house in april last year. an appointment cannot be revoked. i can understand some of your questions. the principles of transparency, fairness and equal opportunities are important to me as well. in this spirit, i shall propose to my colleagues in a few days' time to list a number of openings at the upper and top management levels. i am confident that the commission's current procedures, based on the statute and applicable law, provide a robust framework necessary to ensure that our principles are respected in the selection and appointment of senior and senior management. a final sentence on the img case, which was briefly mentioned by mrs ayala sender. the commission has cooperated with img in the past to implement projects in the field of development policy. as you know from the discussions in the committee on budgetary control in recent years, the commission has challenged the status of img as an international organisation. in recent case law, the arbitral tribunal and the ecj have not followed the commission's position. the commission will therefore of course follow up these decisions accordingly. we will make the outstanding payments to img and will examine the possibility of any further future cooperation with img legally and objectively. ladies and gentlemen, all of you have contributed successfully and concretely to the implementation of the budget you have adopted during the parliament's term of office, in terms of performance, compliance with the rules and also in the fight against fraud. the draft report before us today contains specific demands. we in the commission take this very seriously. i will report to the committee on budgetary control in detail in the autumn on the commission's follow-up to this. your work has been intense and bearing fruit. thank you for this and for your constructive cooperation! i would like to thank you all for the very fair and collegial cooperation which i consider to have been shown with regard to me, as this is the last opportunity to discuss discharge.
president of the european court of auditors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner oettinger, and the president of the council, as this is the last opportunity for the court of auditors to speak before the end of the parliamentary term, i would like to thank all the partners of the court present here today - the committee on budgetary control, its chairman ingeborg gräßle, its rapporteurs, commissioner oettinger and his staff, the presidency of the council and its working party - for the excellent cooperation throughout the parliamentary term and also during this year's discharge procedure. its control activities may not always be as visible as its legislative activities, which are sometimes at the centre of the public interest. but i am sure that for many of our citizens it is equally important that eu law is applied correctly and that taxpayers' money is well spent. the decisions on discharge which parliament will adopt immediately after this debate are never a 'blank cheque' but rather part of a process of cooperation over a longer period. the treaties clearly state that the commission is legally obliged to take all appropriate measures to comply with the parliament's observations in the discharge decision and also with the council's explanations. i think by now you're familiar with the findings of our 2017 annual report and special reports. as in 2016, we delivered a limited and not a failed audit opinion on eu spending, which we see as a 'glass half full' and a confirmation of a positive development in the way the commission and the member states manage european finances. i would therefore like to focus on four points today. firstly, as regards our feasibility studies, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament for the broadly positive reception they have given to the recommendations in our special reports. this is the way to contribute to improving the policies and programmes of the european union. i would also like to emphasise that we the members of the court and our staff are at your disposal and that of your committees once our reports have been published. please contact us if you need further explanations or additional information. we are here to support you in your work as a member of parliament. secondly, as regards the commitments still to be settled, the so-called rals, reste à liquider, we note that parliament shares our concern: when i was with you last october, i promised you that this problem would be further investigated in depth. i am therefore pleased that we have now completed our analysis in this regard, which examines the underlying causes of the record level of eur 267 billion of commitments to be settled in 2017. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, as regards your request to the commission to use a methodology for calculating error rates similar to that of the court and to the request that both institutions agree on this: let me repeat that we are in full agreement on this point. without prejudice to our independence, we are in close contact with the various commission services to see to what extent and by when this could happen. mr oettinger may wish to comment on this later, but let me thank him and his team for the first positive contacts on this matter. we look forward to the progress we will make gradually over the coming weeks and months, as expected. this is also in our massive interest. i would also like to take this opportunity to comment on some of the points raised by the council in its recommendation. of course, our aim is also to provide the highest possible level of information and detail, particularly where it matters most, and to do so at a reasonable cost. as things stand today, we already need almost half our resources for our annual report - that's a high percentage. and, as a side note, the closer we get to the materiality limit, the greater the effort to be able to produce any useful results in the calculation of the error rate. in recent years we have improved our risk analysis and tend to focus our efforts on the areas which present the highest risks. at the same time, we want to create the conditions for us to be able to confirm the detailed information already provided by other verifiers. we are currently working to ensure that this information is of appropriate quality. one example is our approach to cohesion, which was changed in 2017. the main innovation was that we reviewed and understood audits and controls previously carried out by the bodies responsible for expenditure and then took these results into account in our evaluation. this new approach is designed to provide you in parliament with more comprehensive information on how eu funds are managed and to give the management responsible for this more responsibility for its reporting. we also aim to provide you with better geographical and fund-specific insights for the whole of the european union. we intend to apply this approach to all those areas of the eu budget where it can be implemented in a cost-effective manner and where the results are reliable. fourthly, and lastly, a comment on cooperation with the european central bank, which is also mentioned in your resolution: as regards access to ecb documents which we need to carry out our audit tasks, the atmospheric conditions have improved lately. the ecb now seems seriously willing to engage with us in an interinstitutional dialogue on the draft memorandum of understanding which we sent to the ecb over a year ago. i think that this development is due in particular to the support we have received from your house on this matter. we intend to start the talks now and to complete the process as soon as possible, before the summer break. i would urge you to continue to pursue this matter and, if necessary, to take legislative action in the next parliamentary term if the dialogue with the ecb does not lead to a satisfactory outcome in due time, and also to address the fundamental problem of the limitation of our mandate in the area of banking supervision. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that, as the campaign for the european elections is due to begin in at least 27 member states in just a few weeks' time - and this may well be the most important election of its kind to date - i would urge all members of the european parliament to have free access to our independent audit work, which we offer as an objective reference. we look ahead in our many opinions, which we summarized in a summary with comments in february of this year, in which we set out our thoughts on the future mff and the associated programmes. however, the court also looks back in its annual report and a large number of special reports, which highlight many criticisms, but also many success stories and good practices. as auditors, our primary concern is not to criticize or to measure. we want to contribute constructively to improving things where we think it is necessary and useful.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has the exclusive right to approve the implementation of the budget and, as an institution directly elected by the citizens, exercises democratic control to ensure that the european union institutions and agencies manage the funds made available properly. as regards the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017 for the european maritime safety agency, the european aviation safety agency, the european union agency for railways, the joint undertaking for air traffic management research in the single european sky (sesar) and the shift2rail joint undertaking, i have based my work mainly on the annual reports of the european court of auditors, which found that the three agencies and the two joint undertakings, which were the subject of the opinions i drafted on behalf of the tran committee, have managed their budgets in a lawful and regular manner. i therefore proposed that discharge be granted and that these bodies continue to pursue the path of sound budgetary management, transparency and the fight against corruption.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any person of good sense, any good father of a family, any good mother of a family, would look at the cost of this landfill and see that there is a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot of waste. it is a waste of time, which, of course, would not be worth a plenary session. i shall merely mention a few of them, to remind you of them, and to hope that a little common sense will enter the heads of those who run this institution, so that this waste will be reduced. the strasbourg headquarters is used for 48 days a year, and is empty for 302 days. it costs more than 200 million, almost one billion euros over five years. we are forcing tirs to go from strasbourg to brussels, from brussels to strasbourg, with an increase in pollution of 15 000 tonnes of co2. there is much talk of europe's ambition to reduce pollution by 40% by 2030; however, i fear that this is contributing to it. we have 9 million for the house of european history: 200 people a day visit it, so for 200 people, 9 million. 500 million for the old ema headquarters, because someone forgot to provide for the withdrawal clause. we'll have to hold an empty seat until 2039 because there's no waiver clause. 500 million wasted. the new european budget provides for an additional 16 billion for administrative expenditure. but that's not enough! you think you're going to spend 33 million euros on the campaign, and you think you're going to hide the waste of this car. but it is clear that in the past some people were convinced that it was the peoples of europe who were leaving. today the people of europe are reacting and are ready to invite you with the relocation box, with the eviction box, to tell you to leave this parliament and to stop ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the excellent work they have done on the 2017 discharge and i would like to speak briefly about the justice and home affairs agencies, all of which are at the forefront of tackling the constantly evolving challenges facing the european union in the areas of justice and security, migration and the protection of fundamental rights. for example, eurojust, which already plays a role in the fight against the most serious transnational crimes and which will become a key partner of the european public prosecutor's office in the near future, has shown improved performance and a positive administrative reorganisation in anticipation of the governance reform introduced by the new regulation. i therefore strongly support the discharge to these agencies, because the correctness and transparency of the budgets is, in my view, fundamental to european policies and is a duty towards the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise one point very clearly, namely the european medicines agency. after a highly questionable political choice, which resulted in the drawing of a coin, of the new headquarters in amsterdam, the netherlands, we now have a rented headquarters in amsterdam and a building under construction in the same city, while there was a ready-made headquarters in milan, which could be occupied and used immediately. but here's what happened: we'll see how this plays out in the appeals. the most incredible story is the decision of the high court of justice in london which ordered the agency to pay a rent of 465 million euros until 2039. i have tabled an amendment to this effect: these responsibilities must be ascertained. it is inconceivable that there should be no clear and decisive intervention on a matter of such high profile and seriousness, which is an offence to the taxpayers of europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the constructive debate we have had. the committee on budgetary control gives important suggestions every year on how to manage the eu budget better. however, there are still many general waste, starting with this parliament, with the double seat, with the many privileges of members and even commissioners, which we could manage better, as well as the many administrative expenditure which is so much in dispute, on which action could be taken more firmly. i would also like to make a political clarification: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, greenhouse gas emissions in europe increased as well as the average co2 emissions of new cars, due to the consumption of oil in road transport. furthermore, although sales of diesel cars are declining, and those of hybrid and electric vehicles are growing rapidly, in 2019 there are less than 20 electric models available from european dealers and therefore their spread is clearly limited everywhere. all of this tells us how important the regulation we are adopting is, because it will drive the decarbonisation of the automotive sector, which is needed now more than ever, and transform the car and van market into a sustainable one, stimulating the spread of zero- and low-emission vehicles. i am proud to have worked for the five star movement on this regulation and to have also helped to contain the attacks of those who would like to anchor the european car to a fossil fuel future, at the expense of the environment and the health of our fellow citizens. instead, they should be invested in renewables and hydrogen, which are five times more labour-intensive than oil, and support the creation of the estimated 200 000 new permanent jobs in the sectors related to electromobility by 2030, so that the transition is truly fair and no one is left behind. i also sincerely thank mrs dalli for her work.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the co2 emission reduction targets contained in this proposal are totally unrealistic: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the text is not technologically neutral, it is a force for the electric solution, it does not benefit the competitiveness of the sector, but rather makes europe dependent on raw materials rare earths for batteries which come largely from one country china with the aggravating fact that the vast majority of patents for batteries are held in asia, not to mention the lack of charging infrastructure and that a large part of electricity in europe still comes from coal and lignite power stations. the inclusion of a clause which could, hypothetically, open up a revision of the targets by 2023 is not sufficient to rebalance this regulation. sectors such as the automotive industry need medium and long-term industrial plans: legislative acts like this are irrational and irresponsible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is a movement. europe is moving towards the new development model, a low- and zero-carbon economy, a virtuous alliance between growth and the environment, production and industry, with less energy waste and pollution. in europe, the movement of people is expected to increase by 40% and that of goods by 60%. transport currently contributes 25% of emissions and over 70% is accounted for by road transport. today, the transport sector accounts for 5% of european gdp, a wealth that we spend largely on medicine and hospitals to deal with the pollution in our cities and to repair the damage caused by climate change. we have to change! this regulation sets binding and ambitious targets for the emissions and fuel economy of cars and vans. he says no more lab tests that don't reflect real emissions and he wants data in real driving conditions. we are now working together, all of us, to encourage the public and private investment needed to convert europe's motor industry, which is still 94% dependent on oil. we now accompany and support workers in their retraining and updating of their skills. we must change and this regulation is a step in the right direction towards a different way of life, one that is more respectful of people and the environment.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are going to vote on the new instrument for neighbourhood, development and international cooperation. this is a very important procedure as it will determine how the european union's assistance to third countries will be extended over the period 2021-2027. this is a value of almost 90 billion euros. the text is the result of a long process of negotiation and compromise between all the political groups; we have reached a position which i consider to be balanced on the merger of the various existing financial instruments, so as to ensure greater direction and control by the european parliament. that is the first point i think it is necessary to stress, namely governance. the commission proposal only provides for implementing acts and comitology for the adoption of programming documents: this means that parliament can only challenge these acts on legal grounds, i.e. if the commission has exceeded its implementing powers, and not on the basis of the political decisions which gave rise to them. this is clearly not enough and we are therefore introducing delegated acts, a more meaningful and regular strategic dialogue that precedes the programming decisions. in this way, therefore, all important policy choices would be subject to parliament's scrutiny and objection. a second element is the neighbourhood policy, which is one of the priority areas and a key element of the european union's external action. including the neighbourhood policy in the single instrument provides greater flexibility for easy and rapid mobilisation of additional funding and to support special relations with our neighbours. the budget foreseen of eur 22 billion represents an increase of 24% in this sector compared with the current multiannual financial framework. as far as sub-saharan africa is concerned, we are increasing its financial allocation and are planning a programme for the acp countries so that they can meet the possible needs arising from a future post-cotonou agreement. we have included in the objectives of the regulation a reference to the eradication of poverty and, as regards official development aid, we have increased the percentage of projects financed meeting these criteria from 92 to 95%. on migration, we stress the need for a holistic and long-term approach and address the root causes of regular, irregular and forced migration, including a reference to climate refugees. so let's talk about the need for human rights-based policies to facilitate safe, orderly and regular migration. we also consider it important to tackle climate change, also in relation to the agreements reached, including the paris agreement, and the percentage of expenditure on climate change has been increased to 45% in the regulation objectives, an ambitious target compared to the one proposed by the commission. the priority is the intervention we make in the field of human rights. we have introduced a clause to suspend aid to a particular country in the event of persistent non-compliance with these principles. finally, as regards the part of the instrument dealing with peace and stability, we would like to emphasize clearly that the funds in this area must be used to create conditions for ensuring sustainable development and cannot be used for the purchase of arms and ammunition or for operations with military or defence implications. it is important work that has taken many months and for this reason i naturally thank all three of my co-rapporteurs and the undersigned for the work they have done and i hope that this proposal will be fully adopted.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the instrument in question is a geopolitical rather than a development instrument. the mantra is: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. everything must be done to ensure that migration flows cease to be irregular and become - and i quote - "regular, safe and responsible". the migrant coward is born not only illegal, but irresponsible. the classic development policy is merging with foreign policy and even with military agreements, against previous opinions of parliament and outside its control. the western wars of regime change, which generate misery and mass displacement, are completely silenced. there is no shortage of references to poverty and human rights. i fear both vice and virtue pay homage.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee on the proposal for a regulation we are discussing, a task which i have very much welcomed, having worked very closely with ngos, associations and international cooperation networks during this parliamentary term. i must say that i have been faced with questions similar to those raised by the rapporteur in her opinion on libe: the text, which was supposed to promote the fundamental principles of the european union, such as gender equality, human rights, respect for the environment and cultures, is in its most legislative part an attempt to allocate funds to manage migration flows, to define 'legal' and 'illegal' human beings and to fortify european borders. despite the positive results achieved in the negotiation of the femm opinion, i can only note with regret that the final text backs up not only the femm opinion but also the european commission's gender action plan: i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs. i would like to say that the new single fund for external action, which brings together the cooperation and neighbourhood funds, certainly must not represent a confusion of policies, objectives and a loss of specificity, but it does signal a new focus on a decisive turning point in order to give substance to a stronger cooperation and partnership in the field of education and culture. i therefore see a strong call for the new strategy launched by the european union for international cultural relations, which are now essential if europe is to be a global player. i was the rapporteur, and i welcome it. for the first time, the european instrument for international policies and relations provides for the possibility of using the funds to support erasmus mundus activities, for example, with third countries, something that has been requested with particular insistence by young people in africa and the neighbouring countries. in addition, the rapporteurs have taken up the proposal of my committee and our rapporteur to strengthen bilateral international relations between the union and third countries in all bilateral agreements, also in the light of the new european cultural agenda. i believe that this is an important element in promoting cooperation, intercultural and interreligious dialogue and the role of those working in this field, who can bring the various civil societies closer together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to combine the instruments for neighbourhood, development and cooperation and for the promotion of fundamental rights, which are so important for our external action, could have caused some concern, but thanks to the work of parliament, the text seems to me to have been greatly improved. the increase in resources planned is in line with our demands. i am also particularly pleased to see the priorities expressed by the afet working group on external financial instruments, of which i am a member, included. for example, the role of parliament and democratic control over expenditure decisions, for greater flexibility and simplification of procedures. it is important that a specific chapter be devoted to the neighbourhood policy, with human rights conditionality as a guiding principle of the union's financial support to our partner countries. the union needs to regain credibility in its external action, remaining true to its values even when pursuing its own national and strategic interests. it is time to take a step forward together to play a stronger and more constructive role in the development of a peaceful neighbourhood, also countering forms of neo-colonialism that come from other parts of the planet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the eradication of poverty is the main objective of development cooperation. the union's external action is in line with major global challenges, in particular the achievement of the objectives of the 2030 agenda. with the adoption of the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, we are taking a further step forward in the fight against poverty, both economically and democratically, socially and environmentally. the new and ambitious instrument will enable greater strength and unity in action in respect of the universal rights of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, socioeconomic integration and environmental protection. i would like to stress that unity does not mean lack of diversification: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. the innovative unity of the instrument will lead the union to have even greater influence on the international scene, where only a firm and holistic response will be effective.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you so much for this very useful debate. let me congratulate you again for your determination and success in concluding parliament’s first—reading position in a timely manner. this will allow us to start negotiations as soon as the council is ready. we in the european commission are fully and unanimously convinced that establishing a coherent and more responsive neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) is a paramount step in promoting and delivering on our objectives and commitments made in the context of the eu global strategy, the european consensus on development and the global 2030 agenda. i insist that this will be best done within the proposed ndici architecture by safeguarding and ring—fencing the specific measures and the political importance of each geographical and thematic policy, including human rights and democracy. in our view, any amendment that might undermine – let alone dismantle – a coherent structure of the ndici instrument, as supported by the report, would only contribute to inconsistency and contradictions between our policy goals and our financial capacity to carry them forward. in that context, i am confident that the existence of any self—standing financial instrument does not add more significance to any particular eu policy. on the contrary, the best way of overcoming policy silos is building true policy coherence, including funding coherence of our financial instruments. i would also like to draw to your attention that the financing instruments as proposed by the commission are fully in line with our development priorities – our development substance that is set in the european consensus on development. therefore, a human—rights—based approach, eradicating poverty, and a rule—based democratic approach to all of our partner countries are – and will be – important and a prevailing part of the implementation policy of our financial instruments. also, to all those honourable members that tabled their concerns on the possible diversion of development funding towards military goals, i would like to point towards revisiting the founding treaties of the european union, under which any military action funded by the european budget is actually impossible, and this will definitely not be part and parcel of our development policy. also, let me stress again that the dac-ability target and the spending targets as proposed by the commission strike the right balance. they balance the level of our political ambition in each different policy and geographic area and the flexibility needed for implementing those commitments in the most effective way. finally, let me reassure you again of our commitment to an open dialogue with you to find a fair and balanced solution in order to enhance parliament’s role of oversight and political steering. thank you once again, and we all look forward to the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ability to take a global view and to maintain geographical and sectoral objectives: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must not be afraid of the challenges this instrument poses to us all. and then let's be honest, because in the course of the discussion of these months, those who seem so committed to the neighborhood, were actually ready to sacrifice the southern neighborhood to look only and exclusively to the east. so we were right to incorporate the toolkit. the second question: governance. the choice we made is essential: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. question number three: i find the reading by some people that the instrument seems almost set up to stop immigration to be forced. we must not allow political polemics to blind us to the real and important issues of an instrument which seeks to give a global dimension to the european union's activities. finally, i would like to say to the commission: it is quite clear that the european parliament's efforts, which have not been without problems, should be matched by a qualitative leap forward in both the european union's foreign and development policy, showing here a great deal of coherence and a capacity for intervention and leadership that has been somewhat lacking in recent years.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the critical attention in the debate on the rule of law and fundamental rights has been focused on the case of turkey. but i would like to raise another case, on the basis of which we must weigh and also judge the policy of pre-accession assistance, as well as its effects and its shortcomings. how can we fail to see the big beam in the eye of this european union, the very serious situation of discrimination suffered by the serbian minority, which was already a victim of the pogroms of 1999 and 2004 in kosovo? it is not possible to suspend pre-accession assistance to this state, which, as we all know, is ruled by former kla leaders. it's worse here! how can we fail to see the objective incompatibility of the values affirmed by the european union with the discriminatory policy, now also denounced by a report of the united states department of state, a policy, that of kosovo, which forces serbs to live surrounded, victims of violence, deprived of their freedom of movement, of the right to live in their own homes and even of receiving the help and support of the religious solidarity associations of the orthodox church. this is very serious!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, einstein said that perfection of means and confusion of ends seem to be the hallmarks of our age. i think that is particularly appropriate for today's debate. i personally do not find it particularly exciting to go over the technical specifications of the ipa iii instrument: i find the debate, which i will share with you, about its use, its purpose, its underlying political vision, much more interesting. ultimately, all we ask of a tool is that it be fit for purpose and do well what it is designed to do. we therefore ask that ipa iii, as compared with its processor, be better adapted to the changed political circumstances of the union and its partners. i think i can say that thanks to the excellent work done by mr salafranca and mr fleckenstein, whom i thank, that is indeed the case with the proposal. i believe that very important steps have been taken to strengthen parliament's prerogatives in the design, programming, monitoring and evaluation of the action of the instrument and to ensure political and democratic control of the european funds used. i also find it extremely positive, indeed necessary, that the proposed strengthening of conditionality and the allocation of funds on the basis of the performance of countries and clear benchmarks and, above all, the possibility, this time codified in the instrument, of partially or totally suspending assistance in the event of a candidate falling short of the copenhagen criteria or of respecting the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. we must have the courage to use these benchmarks, to use this instrument, starting with turkey, or we will lose our credibility. the accession policy is and will continue to be one of the defining features of the eu. its centrality is also evident in the decision to have a separate instrument, even at a time of unification, such as the one proposed by the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici). but, as we shall be voting on a valid proposal tomorrow, we shall need bolder decisions and clearer ideas for the accession policy itself, which have sometimes been lacking in recent years. with the approval of the new generation of instruments, we will have a very sharp chisel at our disposal. it is up to the hand that will wield it, and therefore also to us, to use it well and most effectively.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing the albanian authorities. we cannot accept, we cannot stand by while europe provides resources for good neighbourliness and pre-accession, and yet there are families in albania, albanian families, who threaten our fellow citizens. we cannot accept extortion, we cannot accept threats, and i am referring to the threats made in recent days by an albanian family to francesco sicignano, who shot and killed an albanian thief in vaprio d'adda. so the family lost an albanian thief and now that family is thinking of extorting resources and money from sicignano or even threatening her. we call on the albanian authorities to intervene in these allegations and this crime and we make it clear once and for all that from today, as you can see in this poster: "attention, self-defence is in force!" that is, from today we have in italy a state that stands between the thief and the citizen, with the citizen; between the thief and the good citizen, the state chooses the good citizen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrations are taking place all the time in algeria: these are massive and peaceful demonstrations, which leave no doubt in the minds of most algerians. the protests, initially against bouteflika's fifth term, are now calling for the transition to be swiftly closed. in essence, what is being avoided is that we go from a call for elections without bouteflika to a stay of bouteflika without elections. it is therefore essential that we show the way to a reasonable transition, because it is absolutely essential that algeria can be assured of a framework of stability in which democracy, rights and reforms are central. i hope that the activation of article 102 of the algerian constitution will be a first step, although it is not enough. finally, the european union and its foreign policy must take a more determined approach to this country, because the future of the whole region depends on its balanced transition.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the five-year unlawful occupation of crimea by the russian federation (2019/2671 ((rsp))
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr brando benifei, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on 'after the arab spring: future prospects for the middle east and north africa' (2018/2160(ini)) (a8-0077/2019)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eight years ago thousands of women and men, especially young people, took to the streets across the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean to demand more democracy, respect for their rights, fundamental freedoms, work and social inclusion. eight years after those protests, which marked a break with the patterns of the past, it is time to take stock of the transformations that have taken place in the region and especially of the action of the european union. while what is commonly called the 'arab spring', which was in fact a series of stages, led individual countries to take different paths, from greater democratization to new regimes, if not to a situation of civil war, europe first tried to accompany the democratic impulses that had emerged. however, following the growing terrorist threat of daesh and the outbreak of the refugee crisis, europe has been led to focus more on stabilising our partner countries, security and immigration containment. in short, we have once again repeated the mistakes of the past, not realizing that this would continue the vicious circle from which the people of this complicated region are trying to break free. we are still witnessing this today in algeria, which risks becoming a new syria if the situation is underestimated once again. the union would have many means at its disposal for a more effective foreign policy, but a renewed action must necessarily start from a coordinated approach and greater unity. if the member states continue to pursue their own interests in a very short-term perspective, sometimes in conflict with each other, we will continue to be unable to influence the complex processes that are going on in the region, and will therefore increasingly play the role of payers and not actors, as has happened in syria. we must therefore rethink our policy towards this important part of our neighbourhood, taking up our basic principles as the north star. as outlined in the global strategy for the common foreign and security policy, we need to invest more in the resilience of these societies rather than in mere stabilisation: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is increasingly recognised. instead, a long-term approach is needed, focusing on people and their aspirations, democracy, human rights, social inclusion and socioeconomic development. in the end, what has emerged from the arab spring is first and foremost a major crisis of confidence on the part of citizens in their institutions, which requires the construction of a new social contract, which the union must encourage and support. the report therefore proposes an approach which takes account of the views of the populations concerned: a constant and structured dialogue with civil society, including its smaller and local components; an approach that gives a strong voice to young people, who are an important and dynamic but also vulnerable part of these societies. we therefore propose the establishment of permanent advisory councils for young people in the union's delegations and a programme of study and work exchange on the model of erasmus euro-mediterranean, with dedicated resources. we also call, among the many points raised, on the member states to put an end to the sale of arms and equipment used for internal repression against regimes which do not respect human rights. we also stress that greater cooperation cannot be separated from investigative and judicial cooperation, even in cases involving young europeans, such as the notorious case of giulio regeni, for which we are still awaiting the truth. we therefore need, in conclusion, a paradigm shift and we believe that this report points the way towards a path which is more in line with the aspirations of dialogue, growth and cooperation with our southern and mediterranean neighbours.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first i would like to thank the entire house for all its contributions. i think it was a fruitful debate and many interesting points were raised. this report calls for improved cooperation between the eu member states and our southern neighbours towards a partnership focused on human rights, sustainable socio-economic development and democracy, which we see as a priority. we will consider carefully the house’s concerns and proposals and will continue to do our utmost to make the mediterranean a place of enhanced dialogue and cooperation for the benefit of its two shores. but i would also like to respond to mr brok, who has already left us. i think it is also about inter-regional cooperation amongst the countries in the south, where a lot of potential is still untapped. thank you again for this report. it is a huge backing for our work in the region.
before i give the floor to mr brando benifei, i should like to say that i would have been very happy to take part in this debate, but i had to replace a colleague on an urgent basis. i wanted to compliment him on his work, though.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that is all the more true of what you have just said. i would also like to thank commissioner hahn for his valuable contribution to this debate, and i would also like to thank all the other members for their contribution, which i believe has enriched our prospects as well. i am sure, referring again to the commissioner, that he will take account in his work on the southern neighbourhood of the observations made in the report and also in this debate. i would also like to mention the role of the femm committee and the rapporteur, maria arena, who was not present but who presented a very useful opinion, which is a fundamental addition to our report on the role of women in building the resilience of societies in this region. the current neighbourhood policy, as revised in 2015, has certainly had the merit of introducing the concepts of differentiation, necessary to take account of the specific realities of each country, and of contiguity, which puts the eu and partner countries on an equal footing in terms of identifying priorities, putting an end to policies perceived as falling from above. i would like to stress, however, that, as this report shows, we believe that this should not necessarily mean a reduced capacity to influence the partner countries. we also expressly ask in the report that the criterion of conditionality be applied more strictly and that the views of the authorities alone are not taken into account. the civil society perspective is needed more strongly to build real resilience and i am also pleased with the commitment to syria in this regard, as the commissioner has mentioned. a civil society that must be the real protagonist for our action, with particular attention to human rights defenders, who risk their lives every day for the rights of vulnerable groups and minorities. i am therefore convinced, in conclusion, that the text we will adopt tomorrow will be an important legacy of the european parliament for the new legislature and for the continuation of the policies of the european union in one of the most strategic areas for our external action.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 27 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) i believe that it is time to take stock of the past five years as far as eu policies in the mediterranean are concerned. at a time as surely complex as the present, almost ten years after the arab spring, i would like to ask my colleagues: where are we now? and, more importantly, where are we headed? unfortunately, and this is clear to all, no great progress has been made. in egypt, we are back to square one with a new military regime that puts stability before human rights. we don't even talk about it in libya. the only example of a "successful arab spring" remains tunisia, even though the young democracy is under constant attack. in algeria, we have seen in recent days the protests of young people against the old ruling class, the desire for change, social mobility and concrete reforms for the country. but the future scenario remains uncertain. it is now up to europe to do its part: i call for greater coherence but above all for a long-term approach that genuinely takes into account the needs of citizens and tackles the root causes of radicalisation, through policies that focus on people and young people.
before moving on to the item on the agenda concerning the council statement, i would like to inform the house that, in view of the situation with regard to the mobility package, on which 1 224 amendments have been tabled and an equal number of requests for separate votes and for separate parts, i have decided, after consulting the chairman of the tran committee, to apply rule 175 of the rules of procedure and to refer the matter back to the tran committee, with the task of carrying out the preparatory work necessary to enable the house to vote efficiently, in full knowledge of the facts and in a clear manner. this is a decision i have taken taking into account all the different requirements, including the need to avoid misuse of amendments, but also to ensure a clear and explicit vote on the key points. i have therefore decided, also out of respect for the members of this house, that i do not believe they can be forced to vote for long hours on amendments which they have not had the opportunity to examine and on which, judging by the majority recorded on monday, the margin of error and the margin of error would be very high. i therefore ask the tran committee, pursuant to rule 206 (1) of the rules of procedure, to meet urgently, for example on monday, tuesday and wednesday morning, and to present the results of its work to the house in good time so that we can vote on them at the next part-session in brussels next week. as provided for in rule 175, amendments or requests for separate or split votes which do not receive the support of at least one third of the members of the committee at this stage shall not be put to the vote in the chamber. furthermore, no further amendments or requests for separate or split votes will be possible. i am confident that the tran committee will be up to the task assigned to it. i also inform the house that, in the light of my decision to refer the matter back to the tran committee to resolve the problem of amendments, the request made by a low threshold of members, under rule 187, has become obsolete. as for the debate, if there are no objections, it will take place as scheduled.
as required by the rules of procedure, i consulted the chairman of the tran committee, who told me that i was able to do this.
mr president, we are closing the debate because we must not open a debate on this. i inform you of the decision taken, as provided for in the rules, after having heard and consulted the chairman of the tran committee. the problem is the number of amendments and the number of requests for separate votes. there are elements which may indicate filibustering, but there are also elements which show that some of those amendments have important content, so it is not filibustering but a real intention to intervene on the text. in view of the complicated situation, in order to avoid voting four thousand times, it is better to accept the availability of the tran committee and then, next week, if there are no solutions, we vote on all the amendments. i am trying to give members a chance to vote in a serious way, given what happened the other day. it was decided by a two-vote majority, and if we are re-elected with 3,000 votes in the chamber, we are voting on things that nobody knows. i have tried to combine the amendments before: the ecr group has asked for a vote on all the amendments, and therefore against the merger, as it is in its right, in addition to requests for votes on separate parts. i do not think it is right for this house to sit for hours and not know what to vote on, so let us conclude, let us proceed with the debate, the tran committee will do its work and we shall see at the next session in brussels on 1 april whether we shall vote and if there is to be a vote six thousand times, we shall vote six thousand times! it is clear that i cannot change the agenda; i am making an attempt to get the members to vote seriously. so today, if there are no objections, we shall proceed to the debate and at the next part-session - i am convinced because mr delli has assured me that he will be able to do a good job - we shall vote on the work done by the tran committee. if the tran committee again submits six thousand amendments, we shall vote on six thousand amendments: that's what you can do.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 21 and 22 march 2019 (2018/2977 ((rsp)). i apologise to donald tusk and jean-claude juncker for the delay, but as you know, the mobility package is the subject of intense debate and a lot of divisions, so in the common interest of the council and the commission, i have been obliged to inform the house of my decisions.
madam president, we are now only two days from the date when brexit was supposed to happen and we still do not know when, how and even if brexit will happen. this says a lot about the way the uk government has conducted the process. however, it also says a lot about the lies and fantasies the brexiteers sold before the referendum. these have now come crashing down against the reality and trade—offs that leaving the eu was always going to entail. these realities are all too clear to the million uk citizens who took to the streets of london this weekend demanding a people’s vote and a better future for their country. what is also clear is the solution to this deadlock is in london, not here in strasbourg, nor in brussels. monday’s vote in the house of commons gave a glimmer of hope for a way out of this incredible deadlock. the uk parliament decided to step in and take back control of the brexit process. we now need to see what they do with this control. we have always said that the political declaration can be reviewed to pave the way for a closer relationship between the eu and the uk. we can do this quickly, and this is not only possible but is something we would welcome. on the contrary, if the house of commons does not provide a clear cross—party majority for a customs union or the single market nor adopts the current deal, then serious choices must be made. if the uk decides to ask for a long extension, of course this cannot be to renegotiate the withdrawal agreement, which is closed and will not be re-opened. but if the uk asks for a longer extension to rethink brexit to offer a closer relationship or to provide for election or a referendum then, of course, we will support it. president tusk, our group has always been clear on this, because we have the sense of historical proportions. guy, you said you want them back but not now. we have always respected the referendum. but if the uk does not leave we shall celebrate and we will never do anything to prevent this possibility from happening now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of immigrants and taxes, the europe of juncker, merkel and macron, is at the end of the line. on 26 may the italians will send you, president juncker, and commissioners like mrs vestager, who have ruined italian savers, home. we, with our leader matteo salvini, are ready to change this europe, which is enslaved by the banks and the power lobbies, from top to bottom. we want to build a new europe. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. mr juncker and other european bureaucrats, you have been plotting disasters and humiliating the italian people and the european peoples and the italians, and with great pride, in a few weeks they will finally send you home. we of the league will be the first party in europe, because the vote of the italian people will be a real revolution of democracy and freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to talk about brexit, but about the climate. the appeal of greta and of millions of young people protesting for their future all over the world has been fully accepted by this house but largely ignored by the european council. of course, there has been recognition of the need to step up global efforts to tackle climate change. but, beyond the programmes, the european summit has not succeeded in drawing up a clear line on supporting decarbonisation by 2050, an objective that is not even mentioned but only subordinated to industrial competitiveness and to that obscure specificity of the member states which in reality conceals the sovereign prerogative of each country to choose its own energy mix and thus, in certain cases, to preserve the role of coal and the most polluting fossil sources in the economy. according to some scientific hypotheses, man has already become extinct on earth six times, and it is not hard to believe. the house is burning, but we keep thinking it's someone else's problem.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the road transport sector needs important and urgent answers to a number of problems. we are witnessing daily what is a real slavery, involving drivers all over europe: they are forced to spend their lives in transportation, eating, sleeping, without the possibility of returning home and spending time with their loved ones. in addition to the problem of social dumping, there is the problem of unfair competition. we must allow firms to compete on the same basis. we must combat the phenomenon of relocation, and encourage unequal tax and wage systems. we have to do this because this is happening. in recent years we have seen a trend towards ever lower social standards and wage levels, a trend which must now be rebalanced. it is our responsibility, the responsibility of this legislature, of this parliament! we can 't escape . so let's try to finish, and we'll see you next week at the tran committee. we try to give rules and social rights to our drivers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to say that we should change the name of the package, because from 'mobility package' we should perhaps change to 'immobility package'. for months now we have been witnessing a continuous back and forth between the tran committee and the plenary and vice versa and today, by the way, we should have voted and instead we are still, unfortunately, in the debate. i think we 've done a good job so far . compromise was reached on cabotage, detachment, driving and rest periods. i have some reservations about crossborder cabotage, because i think it is open to circumvention. but overall i think we have made real progress and we must absolutely get ahead of the application of the smart tachograph, because only then will we be able to control these standards. i therefore ask, i appeal, that a vote be taken before the end of this term, because only then can we say that we have done a good job for citizens and businesses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility package is a painstaking effort by the committees responsible to bring some order to a sector characterized by fierce competition, which not only creates unacceptable living conditions for drivers but also puts the lives of all european citizens on the road at risk and contributes powerfully to co2 emissions. until the availability of a strong and fast rail freight transport, thanks to tnt, reduces co2 emissions on our roads, i believe it is essential to reach a reasonable agreement to modernise the sector and guarantee the safety and quality of work for drivers. in particular, the very early introduction of the smart tachograph will make it possible to carry out effective checks and to ensure compliance with the rules. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must have the courage to go to the polls and to see whether this parliament is capable of taking a decision on such an important matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility package must be approved because it brings benefits and competitiveness to the sector. i am thinking, for example, of the cooling off to avoid systematic cabotage, the posting on international transport and the switch to the second generation intelligent tachograph from 2022 onwards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the alternative is to find ourselves in chaos, with different laws in each member state: i am not saying that we should be looking for a new europe, but rather for a new europe, a new single market. however, i think that more flexibility is needed in terms of driving times and rest periods to be safer on the road. an unbalanced distribution of driving and rest times leads to situations which have direct consequences on working conditions. it means more fatigue, less concentration, more difficulty in recovery. it means less safety for workers and all road users.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
i am not going to go into that. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, vice-commissioner, plastic has a negative impact on marine biological resources and the environments that host them, because it also harms fisheries and poses a risk to human health, since this waste, fragmenting, ends up back in the food chain and therefore also on our tables. a recent report by the ocean cleanup highlighted that the pacific island of plastic, and unfortunately it's not the only one, is getting bigger and bigger, covering an area of 80,000 tons, three times the size of france. yet, there are still those who deny the evidence. i believe that fishermen have a key role to play in tackling the plastic problem, both as prevention and as potential guardian of the sea, as demonstrated by many initiatives, including the fishing for litter commission. i would like to conclude with greta's words, which say that 'we need hope, but even more than hope we need action. when we start to act, we will find reasons for hope everywhere". it is from immediate action that we must start, because there is not much time left.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work we have done together. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that by voting in a few hours' time on a single-use plastic directive, we are taking a major step forward: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the use of fossil fuels, new design rules, more information for consumers, more separate collection, more responsibility for producers. i think we should be proud of a vote that takes us two important steps forward: first, to combat a wrong throwaway culture, waste of raw materials, unbridled consumerism; second, to defend the oceans, one of the earth's fundamental lungs. in short, to affirm new production and consumption models based on reuse and recycling. i know that it is not just europe's responsibility, but i believe that europe's ambition is a first step, an example that is already being followed and that can lead us to take further steps forward. i've heard the wrong things these hours, these days: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, we believe that we can take a step forward to stimulate technological innovation and change consumption patterns. in short, the way to produce more, better and have new employment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it was an impossible goal, but we achieved it in a short time and with a very large majority in parliament and in european society. i think that's the point of this vote. with our vote at the end of this term, we are sending a clear signal that the transition to a circular economy is not only urgent but possible.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, something good has finally come out of this european union which is so often hated and opposed by its citizens. finally, something that meets the needs and demands of the citizens, a directive that will allow us to clean up our seas and also to avoid, for example, that in 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in our seas. finally, those plastic containers in the supermarkets for food, the plastic plates, the plastic glasses, the cutlery, all those products that already have a single-use alternative without plastic, will disappear. this is a great goal. cigarette butts will also disappear from our beaches, because we have finally succeeded in making the tobacco industry bear the costs of collecting, transporting and treating cigarette butts. i think it is scandalous that we have not succeeded in imposing a binding target in this directive to reduce plastic bottles once and for all. i would like to remind you that the european union produces 50 billion plastic bottles a year, and this plastic does not dissolve over time, so it is easy to calculate: in 20 years, a trillion plastic bottles are accumulated. this has a terrible impact on our environment and our seas. it is also scandalous that some members of parliament have blocked innovative solutions based on biodegradable and compostable plastics simply because they are based on an innovation that is as italian as it is. i believe that these members and the political forces which have supported these positions must bear a great responsibility, because they have prevented us from making progress towards a better future and a safer environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought i had a minute and a half. i think it is clear that there is a misunderstanding here because if, as mr pedicini said, we have eliminated single-use plastic products but there will be single-use products of any other material, i would like to understand what the environment gains from this. i'm not going to argue that 95 percent of the plastic in the oceans -- un studies -- comes from eight asian rivers and two african rivers. we must set the example. but this is too much! on a matter that should have been done calmly, an electoral "spanner" was made, dear vice-president timmermans you who will be the socialist spitzenkandidat an electoral spanner that i hope you will wear badly, because you cannot make the flag on the skin of italians, because you have eliminated and i would like to know what it has to do with the circular economy and banned only products made in italy. and of course, all the other countries said, "how cool, we do a free ad and italy pays the bill!" but i don't think it's only italy that will pay for it, because here we are making fun of ourselves! i repeat: some good things are there but some big mistakes were made! nor have they taken into account studies by the universities of california and ulster, which show that the removal of these single-use products will increase contamination, even serious contamination, with associated hospital admissions. so, i say, a missed opportunity! but you don't get married with figs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to tackle the problem of single-use plastic pollution in the oceans and seas, we must act where we can have a positive and virtuous leverage effect. the only significant and lasting solution is to impose separate collection of this waste in the asian and african countries, the real polluters of the sea. what is the point of europe, as is happening, concluding free trade agreements with countries which do not share our environmental protection policy? it is almost as if we did not know that geographical boundaries do not stop the pollution of the seas, the air and the land. paradoxically, these trade agreements encourage low-cost production, which is not environmentally sustainable, and unfair competition towards our companies. i mean, horned and beaten. the ideological thrust of directives like this, which are apparently environmentalist and have a legislative dimension, will undoubtedly have repercussions on the workers and companies of our countries who will pay the price for these shortsighted choices. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the european community data shows that 95% of plastic pollution of the seas and oceans comes from asian and african countries, the same countries with which we are concluding trade agreements, without thinking at all about the environmental aspect, as well as human rights, as well as women's rights, as well as the prohibition of child labour. and that seems to me to be a great inconsistency on the part of this european community. this was the thing that needed to be emphasized: it's not the environment, it's the way this community works that's not working.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the young people who have taken to the streets all over the world in recent weeks have asked us to act urgently, to do something quickly for sustainable development. europe is taking action and is making another point in favour of the environment and the fight against plastic pollution, especially in our seas, not only in the oceans but also in the mediterranean sea, where entire islands of waste have been created. with this new directive we are banning single-use plastic products such as cotton wool, dishes and cutlery, which are among the main causes of marine pollution, for which there are already alternatives available on the market, which are recyclable and have the potential to last longer. at the same time, we are also encouraging the use of recycled plastic in products, by setting a minimum content for, for example, beverage bottles. in short, today we are taking an important step forward in the transition to a circular economy, which we in europe have understood firsthand and immediately, and the importance of maintaining a high level of growth and well-being for our citizens, protecting the environment and remaining competitive in the world. it's going to be a long process, because we're going to have to change our patterns of production and consumption, but i think that's the only way forward.
in writing. the proposal aims to reduce plastic waste and fishing nets, which account for as much as 70% of the waste deposited on our beaches. i welcome the elimination of the use of oxide-degradable plastic composite products and expanded polystyrene food and drink containers, as well as plastic plates and cutlery, cotton sticks, straws. this is a first step towards a sea change that will allow us to gradually abolish plastic and end the pollution of our land. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is important and appropriate to raise consumer awareness also by labelling the hazardous chemicals present in the various products. finally, i welcome the intention to increase the recycling and separate collection of plastic bottles by setting targets and deadlines.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am very pleased that we have worked here with the necessary time, we have taken all the time we needed and we have achieved a good result. i think this is an example of how patience leads to good advice and good results, because we have done something very important here: we have opened up the single market to many very small and mediumsized enterprises, which were previously excluded from the single market, such as organic, organominerals, biostimulants, specialties and so on, and we have done so with great attention to the environment, even putting limits, especially on cadmium - how difficult it was - which was not there before! i want to stress this: and the approved level is by far the lowest in the world, because the lowest is twice ours, at 60 milligrams, then we find one at 120. i thank all my colleagues for their passion and commitment, including bas eickhout, and i thank him this time, and i think we have done a very good job. as an italian, let me say a few words about small and mediumsized enterprises in italy, which are truly excellent and have in some ways also preceded the circular economy before you in the commission thought of it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, quality fertilising products are and will be increasingly important for the development of more productive and at the same time sustainable agricultural models, which in the future will have to respond to the pressing challenge of access to food, producing more but using less inputs and polluting less. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mr marc tarabella, for the excellent work he has done, together with the rapporteur, mr țurcanu, in harmonizing the production and labelling of fertilisers at european level, setting ambitious limits on polluting products and encouraging research to further reduce them, in the interests of our farmers but above all of all our european citizens. the outcome of the negotiations demonstrates that the union is a global leader in sustainable development, creating the conditions for the ever-increasing diffusion of innovative, effective and environmentally friendly products, in full coherence with the circular economy model.
colleague, thank you for your observation. i regret to inform you that, under the rules of procedure, the vote on the amendments does not alter the outcome of the vote. the amendments which follow the vote are therefore possible, as you know, and are then recorded and published, but they cannot change the final result of the vote. i shall therefore forward your request to the president; but i must tell you right away that the rules of procedure are unfortunately very clear on this point.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, by the final vote on this directive we are establishing that the european parliament has had a very high ambition in protecting workers in the european union. we have protected, by introducing more than 30 new cases of carcinogens, over a million workers over the next few years. my thanks go to my colleagues on the empl committee, in particular marita ulvskog and claude rolin, who were rapporteurs with me on the two previous directives, but also to all the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committee, who have shown that this parliament has great zeal and ambition when it decides to protect citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the various groups, who have always been very cooperative during the long gestation of this directive. the text, which was broadly approved by the tran committee, is a key step in the mobility package, which aims to decongest europe's roads and facilitate the shift of goods to other more environmentally sustainable transport modes. in the face of european citizens who are now demanding more than ever protection and respect for the environment, parliament's commitment to more sustainable mobility is both necessary and desirable. i hope, therefore, that you will support the text today as it was approved in the committee responsible.
that concludes the voting. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda includes the report by tanja fajon, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 adopting the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (kosovo*) (com (2016) 0277 - c8-0177/2016 - 2016/0139 (cod)) (a8-0261/2016).
colleagues, please respect the time. 20 more seconds is a long time. i try not to cut interventions, but please don't make me.
i shall report to the bureau on your report and of course we shall reply to your point. catch the eye procedure
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 28 march 2019.
the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this decision.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that democracy rightly comes at a cost. the problem is not the cost of democracy, but the waste that democracy sometimes generates, and in this parliament, over the last five years, i have highlighted a number of such waste, starting with the funds that are given every year to european foundations and parties: the budget for next year is almost eur 63 million. we are talking about 370 million euros that have been given to the parties during the whole of this parliamentary term. the total budget has risen from 1 737 000 000 in 2014 to over 2 050 000 000 in 2014. you can see that it is difficult to campaign for the people, saying that we are saving money, when in fact the budget has increased in recent years and even for next year, in the event of brexit, with about 50 fewer members, this parliament continues to increase expenditure and waste. unfortunately, there is no future for this parliament in this direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that it seems to me unfortunately rather inappropriate, if not unseemly, to see a further increase in the budget for next year, particularly in a year like this, the year of a possible brexit, in which this institution could lose as many as 46 representatives. despite this, unfortunately, we see a projected increase in expenditure. as a member of the bureau i have spoken out on several occasions against certain initiatives which i consider to be excessive. i am talking about the opening of new european parliament buildings which are too expensive or other solutions which have been exhausted, including the refurbishment of the phs building. it is also worth recalling the enormous costs of our triple headquarters, which continue to be a symbol of disrespect for those countries which are constantly being asked to do more austerity, more rigour and more sacrifice. a billion over the next five years, it's gonna cost us triple headquarters. i want to close with the most unacceptable expense: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while in italy water as a common good is back at the centre of the political debate thanks to the five star movement, which is bringing the public water bill to the chamber of deputies eight years after the referendum in 2011, europe is not living up to citizens' expectations on the drinking water issue. in fact, because of the governments of half of europe, which for months have been opposing in the council any reference to access to water in the new drinking water directive, we are about to vote again on the text already approved by this parliament last october, to hand it over to the next legislature as a suggestion for the negotiations to come. but we think that is a bad suggestion because colleagues in the large conservative majority in this house have blocked the way to significant improvements in access to water as a right for all and as demanded by almost two million citizens through the european citizens' initiative 'right2water'. but not only that, ladies and gentlemen: you are also responsible for refusing to bring the thresholds for perfluoroalkyl substances, pfas, which are currently excluded from the scope of the directive in force, which dates back to 1998. and you have shamelessly introduced dangerous differentiations for the chemical compounds in this family, as if to say that certain pfas might be tolerated and therefore not covered by the new drinking water directive. but the reality is quite different. and what is happening in veneto is there to testify, in a very clear way, that none of these toxic substances should ever be in drinking water, let alone accumulating in the blood of our children. in the interests of the italian and european citizens, i hope, however, that the answers to the question of access to water will soon be forthcoming and that the review of the parameters to ensure quality at the point of consumption will be carried out in a rigorous manner, without yielding to industry pressure and including a thorough examination of the emerging pressures on the quality of drinking water. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against the dantin report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, it has even managed to make matters worse. the objective was simple: align the european institutions with the demands of the european citizens' initiative 'right2water', i.e. as the un also points out, make access to drinking water and sanitation a universal human right, free from the logic of the market and profit. we are only dealing with a series of soft recommendations to the member states. in addition, the report did not adopt sufficient parameters to contain water contamination by dangerous substances of industrial origin, such as pfas. i shall vote against this report: i owe it to the millions of italian citizens who voted for a referendum on public water, i owe it to the mothers who voted "no pfas", i owe it to the citizens who signed the "right2water" initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to confirm our vote on this important directive on the right to drinking water, which the european commission has decided to update after more than 20 years, in order to better respond to the new challenges of climate change and to ensure a proper transition to a circular economy, to reduce water waste and the production of plastic waste. these are the same european citizens - almost 2 million - who have asked us, through their initiative, to guarantee to everyone, everyone, the right to universal access to drinking water, a basic human right which, i repeat, must be guaranteed and not just promoted. it is also essential to make the choice, which we support, of greater transparency and easier access for consumers to precise and clear information on the water coming out of their tap. and speaking of transparency and health, one cannot ignore the serious pfas pollution that took place in italy, in the veneto region, and that affected almost half a million citizens who now have levels of these endocrine disruptors in their blood hundreds of times higher than normal. the existing directive did not provide for limits for these substances, but now they have been introduced, but the limits are still too high! we must get to values close to zero, as the citizens of venice are asking us to do, also in the light of the recent efsa opinion, which has lowered the level of the tolerable daily dose in the blood. we hope that the next parliament and the italian government in the council, which will be called upon to take a final decision, will choose to set limits close to zero.
member of the commission. – mr president, i very much welcome the messages from parliament, confirming that the european union should respond and act in the interests of our citizens and that everybody supports the sustainable development goal 6 and better access to water. i am hoping to see this reflected in the first reading position so that parliament comes to trilogues with an ambitious position when it comes to the quality of our water, health protection and access to water. i would like to reiterate that the commission stands ready to help the co—legislators reach an agreement that will support the objectives we all share and will ensure that our citizens benefit from the highest health protection for decades to come. i wish you success for the vote, and thank you again for your commitment to this fight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 28 march 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the report by nuno melo, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the interoperability of eu information systems (judicial and police cooperation, asylum and migration) and amending [regulation (eu) 2018/xx [eurodac regulation], regulation (eu) 2018/xx [sis regulation in the field of law enforcement], regulation (eu) 2018/xx [ecris-tcn regulation] and regulation (eu) 2018/xx [lisa regulation] (com (2018) 804 - c8293/2018 - 2017/0235 (cod)) (a8348/2018) and by lena jeners on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the interoperability of eu information systems (judicial and police cooperation, asylum and migration) and amending [regulation (eu) 2018/xxxxxx [eurodac regulation], regulation (eu) 2018/xxxx [regulation on sis in the field of law enforcement activities], regulation (eu) 2018/xxxx [ec] and regulation (eu) 2018/xxxxxxxx [ec] (regulation (eu) 2018/xxxxxxxxx regulation in the field of law enforcement activities) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (eu) (
i thank commissioner king for his presence in the chamber this evening.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative package is of great importance: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. since the paris terrorist attacks, we have been waiting for interventions to address the structural deficiencies in the current information management, making the current information systems interoperable, that is, capable of exchanging data and sharing and integrating information. interoperability, by allowing better communication between databases, will then be a valuable support for national authorities in the fields of security, borders and visa procedures. facilitating checks and making controls more effective in all member states will make it easier to identify a threat, to counter identity fraud, and to prevent, investigate or prosecute serious crime. this can be achieved not only by having relevant information but also by better managing and sharing it at european level. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs, mr lenaers and mr melo, for their excellent work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, at a time when the economic and social effects of the long crisis we are experiencing have not yet been fully felt, it is very appropriate to put in place all possible legal means to enable companies to embark on restructuring measures, which will allow them to save economic activity first and then be helped by formal measures of insolvency and then liquidation, thus trying to avoid the loss of jobs and, with it, the dramatic social consequences which this often entails. the text we are about to vote on is the result of long negotiations involving parliament first and parliament and the council second. but for this reason, which has enabled us to deal with the most sensitive points, as my colleagues have pointed out previously, we cannot regard it as negative. we must not, however, hide the fact that we have lost an important opportunity, in our view, to ensure strong protection for the most vulnerable in this dramatic phase, in some areas, of business restructuring, which has involved the large european companies but, very often, also the weakest, medium and small ones. a restructuring plan normally does not concern only financial issues, which are the most obvious in many circumstances, but restructuring inevitably extends to issues concerning the organization of the company, not only because the organization, when it is deficient, produces difficulties but also because to get out of these difficulties it is necessary to change the organizational model that is the cause of the crisis. the process therefore also concerns the remuneration of workers and employment conditions, meaning by conditions both the number of people involved and the extent and character, including cultural, of the work that is lost in many circumstances. we have therefore worked to recognise and formalise the need for the preventive involvement and full information of workers, as well as all other actors and stakeholders who are in contact with the company. we have indeed made considerable progress in this respect, as has been said, and for this we must thank, and i do so gladly, the rapporteur's efforts, especially during the very long trilogue. it would have been appropriate to add a few more steps, however, and it is particularly important to include the obligation to confirm workers for all those elements of the plan which concern the organizational aspects of the enterprise, including, of course, dismissals, economic conditions, working hours and material conditions. the absence of this point represents for us one of those missed opportunities for good legislation and real progress for the weakest. another point on which i think we have missed an opportunity concerns, again, the workers. this time, however, not as a workforce, but as part of the company's organization, but as possible creditors of a company in crisis. we believe that creditors cannot all be treated equally and that it would be useful and necessary to provide greater protection for the weakest creditors, namely the workers. in particular, we believe that the provision of a specific class for claims of employees cannot be a matter for the member states but should be mandatory. furthermore, it would have been appropriate to grant preferential rights and additional protections to this class in comparison with all other classes. we 'll stop here . we are satisfied with what has been achieved, but we hope that this directive will be adopted tomorrow, but we anticipate what we think and we will therefore continue to work so that what has been a missed opportunity today will be, in the future and above all for the new parliament which will be elected by the european citizens in the coming weeks, an opportunity to return to the subject and to ensure real progress for the benefit of all, both the company and the workforce.
in writing. the agreement reached in the trilogue represents a small improvement on the status quo. in this connection, we must look at how more could and should have been done, and how we could have reached a much more ambitious compromise. the internet and the change it has brought are not to be seen with suspicion, but rather as an opportunity to be seized. the creation of the digital single market was one of the political priorities of the juncker commission, which considered it a key element in the recovery of the european economy and that of its member states. the text is a very small step in this direction and there will be a lot of work to be done in the future. only when the digital single market is fully realised will citizens and businesses, especially smes, be able to derive tangible benefits from such a market. a market, that is, in which consumers and businesses are free to make their own choices without discrimination on grounds of nationality and regardless of the member state of residence and of connection, and where free competition is able to develop freely. more ambition was needed: the directive is therefore a small first step in the right direction. but there is still a long way to go.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me first welcome, on behalf of the high representative, your broad support for her proposal to establish a european peace facility. this reflects the need, repeatedly emphasised by this house, for funding in this area that is more flexible and efficient and which better embodies solidarity. let me extend, on behalf of the high representative and other colleagues, our thanks to the rapporteur, ms vautmans, as well as the co-rapporteurs, for their engagement and their constructive and pragmatic approach. as you rightly recall in your report, the union’s ambition is to be a global security provider, something which is obviously in our collective strategic interest. given the growing and evolving threat picture which we face, we need to have the capacity to respond to a variety of security challenges. that was clearly acknowledged in the global strategy in 2016. the idea of the peace facility was born out of our experience, as the rapporteur was just setting out. the eu is active on the ground, but there are strong limitations to what we can achieve currently. for example, we’ve had difficulties in financing the training of soldiers in somalia and we have not always been able to provide the central african republic with the equipment it needs, as was recalled, to complete its transformation from civil war to a functioning modern democracy. the cost of eu military operations fall too much on the countries which are contributing troops, and that acts as a deterrent to others when it comes to participation and deployments. this new facility, when adopted by the council, will make a real difference. it will provide the union with the ability to finance all operational actions under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) with military or defence implications in a flexible, responsive manner. in particular there are three main strands of action that the peace facility will support. first, it will cover the common costs of eu military missions and operations. indeed, more costs should be funded in common to better meet operational needs and to facilitate deployments. second, it will enable the eu to contribute to military peace operations led by other international actors. and third, it will allow the eu to support the armed forces of our partner countries with infrastructure, equipment or military assistance when the council so decides. the nature, scope and limits of these actions will be defined by the council, but the proposal makes very clear that any support to our partners would be subject to strict controls such as respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights. the high representative’s proposal benefits from the support of the commission, in accordance with article 31. this support will help to facilitate synergies with our other financial instruments and to underpin sound financial management. in conclusion, let me underline that this is a key part of the work that we’re doing collectively to make our citizens more secure, to better support our partners around the world and to contribute to our most precious common good, which is, of course, peace and security. so let me thank you again for your support for this important initiative. i look forward to our discussion and support tomorrow.
the instrument for financing european military operations is a further step towards ever closer cooperation between the member states in the field of the common security and defence policy, as well as a mechanism to rationalise existing mechanisms. as a parliament we make a significant contribution to the high representative's proposal, first and foremost, the clear requirement that military actions financed through this instrument be in accordance with the principles and values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and international law. we also call for strict control by parliament itself, which must be kept informed and have access to all the documents relating to operations financed under the instrument. the transfer or sale of military equipment or materiel to third countries must be in accordance with the eu's common position on arms export controls and the dual-use control regime, while a detailed list of supplied materials must also be made available, safeguards necessary because security and defence policy cannot be without coherence with the values of peace and respect for human rights, which are at the heart of the european project. i am also particularly pleased that, on my proposal, reference has been made to non-proliferation and disarmament and to the european union's leading role in the fight to ban nuclear weapons. in times of increasing uncertainty, when only a few civil society organisations seem to be genuinely committed to these objectives, the nuclear threat is no longer a ghost of the past but a real danger, to be actively combated through international law and multilateralism, of which the union is a world leader.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable cooperation and for having enriched my report and voted it by a very large majority in the cult committee. the new creative europe programme is set in a completely different context from seven years ago, both because of the digital revolution and the need to respond to a major crisis of identity and belonging to europe and its project. i consider it a great achievement of this legislature that we have taken a strong initiative to finally achieve a european framework for cultural policies, starting with the year of cultural heritage, the strengthening of cultural and creative enterprises, the strategy for international cultural relations and intercultural dialogue, which are now fully integrated into the new agenda for culture. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the audiovisual sector, which will be part of the digital economy, a digital ecosystem, where the audiovisual media services directive and the directive on copyright, which was adopted on tuesday, will create new rules and also greater financial resources for the sector. as rapporteur, i am pleased with the new elements in the text, starting with the doubling of the budget from 1.4 to 2.8 proposed to parliament, and i hope that our nomination will be supported by the future parliament and accepted by the council of ministers and that it will not be reversed. we have added important innovations to the three sections of the programme - culture, media and cross-sectoral - starting from a new general objective, alongside that of cooperation and competitiveness, namely the recognition of the intrinsic value of culture and the central role of artists and cultural professionals. we have reintroduced the article on european added value, encouraging also a narrative of the common european roots, unity and diversity, and we have provided for structured action, including with european centres of excellence, for the definition, finally, of qualitative and quantitative indicators of the impact of cultural policies. i am also pleased that my proposal, as former rapporteur for the previous creative europe programme, to include a new european and international mobility programme for artists and cultural workers has been accepted. the cultural sector is now finally strengthened and divided into four specific areas, which will become dedicated financial lines: the world's most important cultural heritage is music, heritage, architecture, publishing and design. the media sector will support transnational actions to strengthen curriculum competences in the audiovisual and digital fields, independent production, european co-productions, european networks of cinemas and video on demand (vod) operators, sales abroad, promotion of new production models and audience engagement. we pay particular attention to fiction, documentaries, children's and animated films, as well as interactive works including high-quality narrative video games and multimedia content. it is interesting to note that the programme will support the development of artistic and craft talents and, above all, for the first time, it includes a specific reference to the promotion of the recognition of the role of women in the cultural and artistic field. there are still too few women on the boards of cultural institutions. we have introduced a new media literacy policy, an important action against fake news to support the quality of journalism, and, alongside project co-financing grants, we have developed important synergies, both with the new investeu programme, while maintaining the specificity and conditions of the existing guarantee instrument for the sector, and with the regional development funds and the new external action financial instrument. but above all, we want the programme to be more accessible and more engaging for young people. i'll just give you two final examples. the new line of support - which i wanted to include and which all my colleagues have supported, and i am very happy about it - for university radio and media networks that tell europe to young people, in memory of antonio megalizzi and bartek orent-niedzielski, the two young journalists from europhonica who were brutally murdered in the bombing in strasbourg last december. and the second example: we have planned a direct support object, next to the important european film academy in berlin, the european union youth orchestra, founded 40 years ago by the maestro claudio abbado and lionel bryer. we continue to support the europe of culture.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, creative europe is the only programme that supports people who want to do business in the field of culture and creativity. most often these are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises or independent creators and artists. they are the real backbone of europe's cultural diversity, able to innovate, take initiative and tell the stories and traditions of local territories. the european union must concentrate its efforts and resources on them. i am therefore particularly pleased that my proposals have been approved to include specific support for small independent audiovisual productions, as well as for young emerging musical artists, who will be able to access specific funding. i want to remind you that culture is such if it is open to all: it is crucial that we have included funding for the adaptation into accessible formats of books and films or for people with disabilities, as i proposed. it is a concrete action that allows everyone to enjoy the fundamental right of access to culture. in times of economic crisis, surplus is cut and, unfortunately, culture is considered superfluous. the creative europe programme, through our work, represents a first step towards making the most of europe's immense heritage and enabling all citizens to enjoy it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. yes, i objected because there was a shift in the budget, so we were shifting a part of the budget from creative europe to this other programme and when there is a shift in the budget i never think it's a good thing. if we really believed and if the committee believed in the project, it should have added funding, not moved it from something that already lacked sufficient funding. and then i argued because i saw this project as a lot of communication rather than substance, and, alas, i'm a person who prefers substance and concreteness over appearance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the creative europe framework programme for the period 2021-2027 will continue, strengthened, to promote and safeguard european linguistic and cultural diversity and to increase the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors. transnational cooperation projects, networks to support the cultural and creative sectors, literary translation, cultural operators' platforms, funds for co-productions of films, fiction, documentaries, children's films, subtitling and dubbing, interactive video games, film festivals, as well as european capitals of culture and the european heritage label, european prizes for literature, architecture, heritage protection, cinema and music: this is a 'creative europe', a true european peculiarity. but to prevent too many projects from being unable to be implemented because of lack of funds, it is imperative to double the budgetary allocation, in line with the interim report of the multiannual financial framework. it is equally important that the programme, over the next seven years, ensures greater accessibility to cultural goods and services in practice for all european citizens. to my colleague and friend costa, a big round of applause for a job well done!
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this good discussion, which clearly shows how important culture and creativity are for our societies, for our personal lives, for our relations with each other and, not least, for the european project and its values. thank you also for your support in making the new programme even more ambitious and innovative. we intend to consolidate and build on the current success and we plan to experiment with novel ideas, responding in an innovative way to the emerging needs of the cultural and creative sectors. let me stress once again that the commission is ready to engage in interinstitutional negotiations as quickly as possible to ensure a smooth transition to the new programme in 2020.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner thyssen, i would like to respond immediately to the commissioner's opening remarks by saying that i appreciate her contribution to our report and the great cooperation we have had. we think that, precisely because this new programme is so ambitious - and we share this ambition - and proposes so many new lines of financing, spending and action, it is absolutely necessary to accompany the negotiation with knowledge and the ability to assess the available resources. that is why we think it was important to have a first reading, to have it approved today in parliament, to have a final text which will form the basis of the next negotiations. however, without knowing what resources will be available, the negotiations risk being somewhat in the dark and would also reduce the possibility of developing all the actions planned. since this is an underfunded programme, with a project success rate of 15% in culture and 40% on average, we risk raising expectations without having the resources to do so. we therefore believe that the next council and the next parliament must ensure that this is the case. i shall give very brief answers on the subject of resources. i am not going to mention all my colleagues, but i thank them very much for their intervention, which was also very kind to me, but i think we did a very good job together. first of all: the resources. some say they're too many, some say they're too few: it's interesting, though. it is certainly too few, but i would say that we have done something, because there is now a stronger and more certain synergy with other programmes: i am talking about the structural funds, i am talking about international cooperation policy, also with the seal of excellence, and then we finally have a greater capacity also in the field of investment, with the european guarantee provided for by investeu. the other note concerns the fact that we wanted to keep together - we know this is a great challenge - freedom and cultural diversity, not by replacing them, but by promoting them and also by supporting a european cultural space, of comparison, dialogue and partnerships. we also wanted to reinforce - and i say this in reference to the statement by my colleague that there is no longer, and perhaps you have not read the text - a third objective, alongside cooperation and competitiveness, which does not refer to a commercial approach but rather to the intrinsic value of culture, art and the society of artists. so i reject that kind of comment. we therefore have to keep together the cultural and artistic aspects, the design of a shared cultural space and also, of course, the cultural, artistic and audiovisual industry, which must also be strengthened through the copyright directive, which we have mentioned earlier. i would like to conclude by saying that we really have this great responsibility, which has been recognised by many colleagues, in particular that of making this programme an instrument which today has greater centrality, but it is not a solitary instrument, but it is part of a cultural strategy whose development in recent years is to be attributed to the cult committee which today sees a greater centrality of culture and the cultural dimension in all european policies. this is the great novelty which i hope the new parliament, the new council and the new commission will have to face and on which i hope no steps will be taken backwards.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner thyssen, i am glad that at the end of my term i can speak about erasmus, because ten years ago i had the opportunity to participate myself and to spend a year studying in galicia, spain. it was definitely one of the best years of my life. those who have had the opportunity to do erasmus have had a truly extraordinary experience. in a european union which is perceived as opaque and distant from its citizens, the erasmus programme is probably the most successful, the best experiment in european citizenship. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. so welcome more funds for erasmus!
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, erasmus is the european union's most successful programme and for over 30 years it has offered young people and others the opportunity to study and work abroad, and many organisations the opportunity to network and carry out projects. the text adopted by the cult committee further strengthens the commission's proposal, as it increases both the budget and the number of beneficiaries. i am very pleased that my proposals to involve adults more in educational pathways have been accepted. in fact, adults will be able to participate in individual mobility actions, and teachers will be able to receive training and professional updating opportunities. the inclusion of the following has also been done very well: we do not want participation in the erasmus programme to remain an elitist experience reserved for a privileged few. this is a unique opportunity for growth which must be made accessible to all, including those with fewer opportunities. for this reason, and also because of my proposals, the programme provides for specific financial support measures, in synergy with other european programmes, to give everyone the same chance: no one should be left behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than thirty years, erasmus is still the greatest success of the european union, the most significant experience of european citizenship, not only for the younger generation but also for adult education, sport and youth associations. that is why we want the new erasmus+ to grow, tripling its resources and becoming more accessible, but we also want it to become increasingly the pillar of the new european education area, which should start from 2025, with the automatic and mutual recognition of diplomas, periods of study abroad and formal and informal skills. the parliament's proposals make erasmus+ more accessible to disadvantaged people, including those with a migrant background, and provide for the mobility of high school students and teachers in schools and vocational training, as well as youth associations. we want to see more partnerships between universities, including with cultural institutions, and more joint master's degrees, including through the new network of european universities and centres of excellence. we are laying the foundations for a true student statute, with the student ecard, a proposal of mine that has finally been incorporated into the programme and will start in 2021. let me say just one last word in conclusion, remembering in this house the 13 erasmus students who, in march three years ago, lost their lives in a terrible accident in spain: i think we all have a great responsibility and a great commitment to ensure that the boys and girls who are doing this important experience do so in conditions of safety and quality of service.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus+ will be an essential tool for improving the quality of vocational education and training throughout the union, through mobility experiences and the knowledge of good practice. the inclusion of education and vocational training in the programme will allow it to reach a heterogeneity of citizens and young people, promoting equal opportunities and social inclusion for all young people, including those with fewer opportunities. in line with the european pillar of social rights, the new erasmus+ programme also positively emphasises the key role that education plays in the fight against poverty, promoting inclusive, equitable and quality education and placing a clear focus on the objective of enhancing the capacity to reach out to those with fewer opportunities, such as those from socially disadvantaged groups. i therefore believe that the european social fund, which has always been the fund for the support of disadvantaged people, can complement the erasmus mobility programmes by sharing common objectives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus is certainly the best known and most successful european programme, with thousands of young people each year deciding to take part, actively and progressively building an important part of the european identity. the increase in resources we have agreed is fundamental. but in recent years, despite all the rhetoric about the erasmus generation, too few young people have had this opportunity. among others, the many young people who do not attend university. i am therefore particularly proud to have personally contributed to the creation of erasmus pro, which was set up as a pilot project by us meps with the aim of extending the erasmus mobility logic to young people in vocational training by creating 50 000 mobility opportunities for apprentices, lasting between six and twelve months, to develop their transversal professional skills. erasmus pro enables many young people entering the world of work to experience europe, to learn a new language and to enrich their personal and professional experience by gaining valuable experience in completing their training in another country. a more inclusive erasmus means a better europe for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the erasmus programme is an important instrument for developing a common sense of european belonging through education and culture and has enabled millions of young citizens to come into contact with the society, language and educational system of another member state, promoting the acquisition of skills but above all offering opportunities for personal growth and openness to multiculturalism and integration. i therefore want to express my support for the new erasmus+ programme which, in parliament's proposal, is even more inclusive and accessible to the most disadvantaged young people. in this respect, i welcome the attention paid to new technologies, for example by introducing virtual learning mobility as a complementary and complementary tool to physical mobility. i hope that the new erasmus+ will be adequately supported to enable an increasing number of young people to have new opportunities for growth and to stimulate their increased participation in society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked on this dossier. erasmus is certainly the programme that makes us all proud at european level, it is the real european programme. this is the great challenge that we have been working on together, from slightly different positions, but all with one goal: erasmus brings us to education, training and sport. i too believe that the budget should be tripled, because this is the most important instrument we will have in the coming years. we will work on this programme with the objective in mind, not so much the investment, as the latter is secondary. that is why we think it is appropriate to work on this programme as the 'europe programme', the programme which will have to bring us together regardless of the conflicts that exist. this will be the programme that will help us to bring together the europe we want and the europe we will seek for the future.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of climate change, and for a new approach to the problem of the environment. we talk, but it's not enough to talk. to move to action, you need resources, you need investment: to invest in the conversion of our industries, to train workers in new skills, to build innovative and sustainable infrastructure, such as mobility and digital infrastructure. there is a european investment gap in all these areas. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the financial support for the development of the european union's energy infrastructure. resources that cannot be met by public finances alone. this regulation can also be used to guide the private financial market. the decision-makers, whether individual citizens or large investors, must have reliable and transparent information on the environmental impact and sustainability of the economic activities on which financial products are based. this is almost impossible today, given the lack of a recognised and recognisable classification system throughout europe. today we are voting on a text which has been the subject of months of passionate and - i must say - heated debate. i would urge everyone to strengthen it by supporting the amendments tabled on the extension of the scope of application to all financial products, not just those already green, and on the need to decline sustainability in both dimensions: the social and environmental. we must not lose the opportunity to show that this parliament has the courage to face new challenges, not only in words but also in deeds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this political premise is useful for understanding and therefore sharing, not only the exquisitely regulatory steps, the subject which we are passionate about and discussing today. a political overview that the regulation, with the specifications it contains, can offer to european citizens, to the business system, to that large part of public opinion which we perceive as being close to the idea that the development compass must be sustainable and, therefore, also inclusive. in the background, reading what has been the work of these years. the password: to regenerate the places of life in use to human capital, within the renewed focus on sustainability, to counter any form of insult to the ecosystem and to the health of people, to affirm the idea that poverty must be countered, precisely, with choices of vision. it seems to us therefore necessary to link the most important political choices of recent years: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a good one. that is the europe of rights and equal opportunities. that is why it is important for us to start now to plant firm roots for a social taxonomy. i think that one of the most relevant indicators should be the exclusion from investment of activities focused on the generation of energy from fossil fuels. so there is a new awareness in the field among citizens, in the business system and among workers. this is the time for a new social responsibility of the production and financial chains, which is equally ethically responsible. there's a cultural shift going on. it needs to be encouraged and supported.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to refer to the rules of procedure to verify the vote on amendment no 9, because i am not sure whether we voted for it or not.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have adopted the regulation on the european regional development fund. we have succeeded in passing a regulation which is environmentally fair, which allows thematic concentration at regional rather than national level. of course, we were not brave enough to be able to dissociate from the deficit calculation the national cofinancing calculated in the stability pact. i am sure that in the next european parliament and in the next legislature this battle will be reopened. the greatest satisfaction is with article 6, because we have finally prevented public money from being invested in fossil fuels: we have also proposed financing coal and methane power stations and, therefore, indirectly financing the landfill business. i therefore thank the members who have listened to the citizens, who have been alerted by us through a genuine popular petition. finally, the european regional development fund will be used for environmentally sustainable development and employment.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 28 march 2019.
ladies and gentlemen, we have learned, not without some dismay, that the european parliament's candidate for the post of european chief prosecutor, mrs laura codruta kövesi, has been placed by the romanian authorities under judicial control, which involves the restriction of her personal freedom, the prohibition on leaving the country without authorization, the obligation to report regularly to the police and the prohibition on making statements to the press. in the interests of the principle of non-interference and non-interference in the activities of the judicial authorities and in full respect of the presumption of innocence, i wish to express the european parliament's concern at the situation and to reiterate clearly that mrs kövesi remains our candidate and enjoys our confidence and support. (applause) i would like to thank i therefore ask the romanian authorities to respect the principle of sincere cooperation between member states and institutions and not to impede the candidate's participation in all stages of the selection procedure for the post of european chief prosecutor. i shall write a letter to the romanian authorities today to that effect, as decided this morning by the conference of presidents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for the whole world. as you and your colleagues will know, the death penalty by stoning has been reintroduced in brunei for homosexuals and for those of other religions than the muslim religion. i think this parliament must commit itself - you will certainly do so and our vice-president mogherini will do so - but this parliament must absolutely speak out against this. you know that for years now christmas has been banned in brunei, and therefore christian traditions cannot be respected. before trade agreements, before financial agreements with brunei, with saudi arabia, with turkey, with russia, with chechnya, human rights come first. europe must be a beacon in the world of human rights. please say a word about that, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
mr viotti, i can only reaffirm the firm commitment of the european parliament, which represents half a billion european citizens living on a continent, the only continent in the world without capital punishment, and its total opposition to the introduction of the death penalty in any country in the world for any reason. there is no justification in the world for taking someone's life. and i think that's the feeling of this whole house. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 28 march 2019. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda. wednesday the report by mr grapini on the establishment of the customs cooperation programme and the report by mr pospíšil on the establishment of the financial support instrument for customs control equipment under the integrated border management fund will be put to the vote at the april ii part-session. thursday mr arthuis's recommendation on the implementation of the financing of the general budget of the union for 2019 in relation to the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, which was put directly to the vote, has not yet been approved by the committee on budgets. it is therefore withdrawn from the agenda. so we're changing the agenda. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights also approved three reports by mr dzhambazki on three requests for waiver of immunity. in accordance with rule 9 (9) of the rules of procedure, these three reports will be put to the vote on thursday. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by introducing a new directive on the protection of the environment. i give the floor to mr preda to present his group's request.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i give the floor to mr novakov to present the request on behalf of the group of members who reach the lower threshold.
in view of the length of the voting period, i therefore propose that the sitting be moved forward to 8.30 a.m. so that voting can begin at 11 a.m. do you agree? as regards the mobility package, following the vote in the committee on transport - unfortunately the situation has not changed substantially - i would like to inform the house that i have decided to apply rule 174 (8) of the rules of procedure, which allows, where possible, for similar amendments to be voted on collectively. it is not a vote by blocks, as provided for in rule 174 (7), but a possibility for the person presiding over the vote to identify during the vote amendments with similar content or with the same objective to be voted on jointly. i hope that this will allow us to keep the votes within a reasonable time and to ensure a clear and explicit vote on the key points. the efdd group asked for the debate on the report by mr stanishev on the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from this requirement to be added as the first item for thursday, and the vote was taken immediately. i give the floor to mr reid, who will be presenting the request on behalf of the efdd group.
the s&d group also called for a statement by the commission on a comprehensive eu framework on endocrine disruptors to be added as a third item for thursday. the debate will conclude with a resolution to be voted on at the april part-session. i give the floor to mr andrieu to present his group's request.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (2019/2676 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after two years of negotiations, three failed meaningful votes and two rounds of indicative votes, four days after the uk was meant to leave the eu, theresa may has finally decided to sit down with the leader of the opposition to try to agree a plan on brexit. one could say ‘better late than never’. we now need to see if these talks will produce a credible way forward or if they are just another political exercise. we have always said that a closer eu—uk relationship would be beneficial for both sides and that, without touching the withdrawal agreement, the political declaration can be swiftly upgraded. so far, it has been theresa may’s red lines that have made this impossible. we will see, this afternoon or the next day, if she is now really prepared to change these red lines and whether her party is prepared to follow her approach, whoever the next leader is. talks alone are not a solution until we see a credible and viable positive majority in the house of commons before 12 april. this means that the threat of no deal has not disappeared. politicians must act responsibly and do everything possible to avoid this scenario, which would be bad for everyone but a disaster for the uk. however, if this situation was to materialise, our group would work to ensure that the rights of all eu citizens were ringfenced in any circumstances. citizens cannot pay the price for the failure of their politicians, and, if the uk parliament continues to fail to deliver a solution, then the british people deserve the right to have their final say. (applause)this is the reason why a longer extension cannot – and must not – be ruled out. if there is a request in this respect, it will have to be well motivated and the obligation of loyal cooperation should be defined and respected. but, in these circumstances, this request cannot be rejected. uk citizens are, and remain, european citizens, and their voice and their rights are not, and will not go, unheard in this house. but why do we have this deadlock? why do we have this constant difficulty to deliver a solution? and why are we now seeing in the opinion polls that at an increasing number of people are signing the petition to revoke article 50? the truth is that brexit is a tragic mistake. it is a lose—lose solution built on a mountain of lies. because european citizenship is a concept full of substance, and losing it reduces, rather than increases, sovereignty. so what we can do, if brexit takes place, is minimise this reduction of rights. but we will never say, in any circumstances, that brexit is a positive solution. and whatever this group can do to avoid this outcome, we will do it. (applause)
the next item is the debate with the prime minister of sweden, stefan löfven, on the future of europe (2019/2672(rsp)). i want to thank the prime minister of the kingdom of sweden. thank you for coming to this debate with the european parliament. we want to put the european parliament at the centre of the dialogue on the future of the european union with meetings with the leaders of the member states. for us, it is important to know your position, your strategy for the future of the european union. this is not a debate on the situation in sweden. it is a debate on europe. as you know, mr prime minister, for us it is important to achieve a good solution for brexit. today, this is one of the most important point for the european parliament. it is important your work in the european council on the dublin reform is another very important point for the european parliament. we are strongly engaged against climate change. we are strongly engaged against terrorism. we want to pave the way for a better future for our citizens. youth unemployment is another problem for us. we want to work together to reduce youth unemployment. in conclusion, on the budget. we want more money for the european budget. our proposal needs to change from 1.1% of our gdp to 1.3% of our gdp, but not through more taxation coming from member states. we want to work on own resources. this is our proposal, our ideas. mr prime minister, thank you very much for coming. the floor is yours.
thank you very much mr prime minister. thank you for your speech, for your proposal on the future of the european union and your engagement. now we need to close the electronic registration for catch-the-eye.
before i turn to mr bullmann, president of the s&d group, i would like to welcome the public who always follow our debates with great attention, our visitors who come to learn more about the workings of the community institutions.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing political instability in many parts of the world, from russia to ukraine, north africa and the middle east, is forcing europe to act to overcome the critical problems of our continent's supply system. a genuine common energy policy will reduce costs for citizens and businesses, while at the same time the use of renewable energy sources will be an important input in ensuring the competitiveness of entire energy-intensive sectors. we must continue on the path started with the legislative packages for reforming the energy and gas markets and support the necessary establishment of connecting infrastructure, including alternative ones, which guarantee security of supply. the european effort should concentrate on reducing internal barriers, as my colleague mr zorrinho said, along with building up sufficient storage capacity to cope with moments of crisis. this agreement ensures - and it is important - that all gas pipelines, including offshore pipelines with third countries, are subject to the principles of european law, and the derogation scheme envisaged protects existing investments - i think in southern europe - in view of the future reform of the internal gas market.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social and economic value of the fisheries sector is not in question. i think that in all the long discussions we have had in the last few months on this matter, this has never been brought into question. the difference is how we ensure the economic and social value of this sector. we believe that the way to ensure this, and to make it safe, to maintain it over time, is to ensure that the resource that keeps this sector going is kept healthy, and then of course to keep the ecosystems and fish stocks that underpin the fishing industry healthy. we therefore believe that the emff should first of all help to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the common fisheries policy has been in place for six years now and has largely failed to achieve its objectives and is failing to do so. there are also elements in the text, in my view, in our view, which suggest that we can still increase fishing capacity at a time when, as we know, in the north-east of our seas we have over 40% of overfished fish stocks and in the mediterranean, unfortunately - we will talk about this later - well over 80%. we have managed to limit the budget for research, for data collection, for the protection of ecosystems, for the protection of biodiversity, but we have asked and were asking, at least we greens, for something much more significant and important, such as 25%. we got 10 percent, which is good, but it's not great, definitely. other points have been inserted which we do not like, and the plant in which this emff has been built does not like us, and for that reason we will vote against it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until now, amidst restrictions and red tape, the majority of small fishermen have not received a penny from the emff. today the regulation accepts our proposals based on simplification and an increase in the budget to 7.7 billion. simplifying means keeping in mind that the emff must be first and foremost a fund for fishermen. that means giving importance, yes, to environmental priorities, but when there is a reduction in fishing effort, that is where the funds must act. so it is right to reintroduce temporary detention support, the possibility of modernising vessels, regardless of the age of the beneficiary, and above all a clear rule specifying in detail the conditions and duration of the period of ineligibility according to the types of infringement, because it is absurd to punish fishermen for ridiculous infringements. we will finally be funding the protection of safety at sea and the health of workers. fishermen will have access to financial and insurance instruments in the event of accidents at sea and natural disasters, and to compensation for damage caused by protected marine birds and mammals, through simplified procedures and in advance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite all our good intentions, fishing is unfortunately one of the subjects on which the european union is most often called to account. of course, many times wrong, but often right too, if we put ourselves in the shoes of our fishermen. the powerful report by mr mato has addressed the many problems of the sector, but much remains to be done, particularly in the mediterranean, in small-scale fishing and in the simplification of complex rules which are increasingly becoming insurmountable barriers for those who make a living from fishing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the european union's financial support must be stepped up in this respect, otherwise we will only be favouring cartels, we will be abolishing small-scale fishing and we will be increasing the sense of hostility towards the union that is more than ever at this time.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with the rapporteur when she says that since this is the first mediterranean plan, any plan is more or less acceptable. in fact, precisely because the mediterranean is in the situation we know and which we have all stressed, we would need a much, much stronger plan. i would remind you that among the species covered by this plan, there are some that, according to the researchers, according to the science, are being fished four or five times over the level of maximum sustainable yield. this msy is not a definition, it's not a word. it means what stocks can give us, year by year, so that they can be maintained over time. right on msy here we have the admission of a major failure: we're going to get a year away from what should be the limit to achieve this goal and say we can't do it, we can't do it and we're going to push it back another five years. a serious and clear failure. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would prefer this weak, ineffective plan to the status quo. it is better to start from something, better to create at least a starting point and hope that this can somehow serve as an incentive in the future to try to do much, much better. that is why, although we have tried in every way to discuss this work again and even to send it back to committee before it goes to the trilogue, we are not satisfied with the way it has turned out, but that is precisely why we will vote in favour, because we are satisfied in some way and we hope that it is a first step towards something much more important in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this multiannual plan contains measures for the protection of species of biological and commercial interest, but balanced with economic and social aspects for the survival of thousands of fishing companies. the rules of procedure accept many of our amendments: we have eliminated the introduction of fishing quotas, the effort management regime will have a reduction of up to 40% over a period of five years. there will be derogations from the use of trawls, depending on the specific characteristics of our coasts and our fishing techniques. a one-size-fits-all rule would have put us at a huge disadvantage. our seabed is diverse, and our fishing has always adapted to geographical characteristics without affecting biodiversity. until now, the european union has not taken account of the characteristics of fleets in terms of navigation and technical equipment. today, however, the months of closure will be chosen by the states according to regionalisation. this is the first plan to allow the use of the emff to finance fishermen who opt for permanent cessation. the negotiations were long and arduous, and we are not entirely satisfied, but we have improved the text considerably and have given voice to the main demands of small-scale fisheries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate mrs clara aguilera garcía on her work and on the fact that she has taken the specific features of the western mediterranean into account in the proposal for a multiannual management plan. the proposal includes measures to improve the conservation of resources and the environmental sustainability of stocks. however, in order to achieve social and economic sustainability alongside environmental sustainability, it is necessary to approve the proposed changes to achieve a balance and reduce the impact on the territories. in addition to temporary cessation measures, member states should be allowed to introduce compensatory measures for the permanent cessation of fishing vessels affected by the fishing effort reduction measures proposed in the plan. the right flexibility is needed in the ban on trawling. the local fleets have adapted to the characteristics of their fishing grounds. an excessive reduction of these areas based solely on geographical or topographical criteria could therefore cause irreversible socioeconomic damage to the sector. cooperation with third countries with which stocks are shared should be developed within the framework of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, in order to ensure efficient management of fisheries activities and the effectiveness of regional management plans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. dialogue with beijing is essential, but for it to be effective we must speak with one voice. the european market is the world's largest trading place, and the resulting bargaining power is formidable. the member states must not be tempted to give in to chinese flattery in exchange for some opaque investment. how can we think of facing the growing chinese economic aggression on our own? president xi realized before we did that we are stronger together. we must stand together to ensure greater social and environmental justice against all forms of unfair competition. it is not just millions of jobs, our relevance on the global chessboard and the preservation of the environment that are at stake. we are talking about the survival of our social model, our welfare state and our liberal democratic system based on democracy, the market and respect for human rights. we therefore welcome the presentation of the new european strategy, a good synthesis between the great opportunities and the many distortions created by a statist economy. china has benefited greatly from open markets and free trade. participation in global trade has lifted about a million chinese out of poverty. this is an extraordinary figure and shows us how trade can support growth and employment. but the shift from a developing economy to a leading player in global trade comes with responsibility: you don't enjoy the privileges of belonging to a community without following its rules. it is clear that in this climate of indiscriminate opening up china has no interest in changing the status quo, but the situation is not sustainable for our companies and above all for our workers, who are forced to compete on the basis of social and environmental dumping. our aim must be one: greater reciprocity. a paradigm shift is therefore needed. to achieve this we must speak with one voice, the european voice.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that we should speak to china with one voice at the next summit, but it is equally natural that that voice should not be that of hypocrisy alone. many european governments, the commission, the popular front and the socialists have all heavily criticised the italian government for signing a memorandum with china. i have nothing against the right to criticise, but it is a pity that, as is often the case in europe, one looks at the straw in one's neighbour's eye without looking at the beam in one's own. it is not only the italian government that has signed this agreement. a further 14 european countries - most recently juncker's luxembourg - have done so. and even those who have not signed any agreements cannot pretend to do so. germany, for example, has a huge railway terminal for chinese goods, with 30 trains arriving from beijing every week. belgium has sold china the natural gas terminal in its port of zeebrugge, spain the container handling in the ports of bilbao and valencia, not to mention greece where a billion euros of chinese investment has arrived for the piraeus, hungary where 200 million euros have arrived for a railway, or croatia, portugal and many others. germany and france export nine and two times as much to china as we italians do, but of course, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is the agreement signed by my government. for years you have told us that populists destabilize the international balance, that they are dangerous for peace and democracy. it is a pity that today those you call populists are signing agreements on cooperation, investment and culture, agreements which encourage china to respect european rules, while president juncker continues to call it a competitor and a systemic rival, as if it were not already a fact that china is one of the main trading partners of all our countries. no problem, we can continue to spread lies, to sow hatred, or we can continue to work for a more united, just and cohesive world as we are doing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the structural transformation of the economy that has been taking place in recent years, but also the pressure from third countries and europe for greater reciprocity in trade, are undoubtedly putting the chinese leadership in front of the need to find a new balance between competitiveness and liberalization. consider the caution with which the chinese government has drawn up its annual report. this has undoubtedly been affected by the ongoing dispute with the united states over the trade war and the pressure on the chinese economy, which has undoubtedly had very heavy effects, especially on the chinese small and medium-sized enterprise system, as a result of the trump administration's tariff policy. but all this must not make us lose sight of a fundamental need. in my country, italy, every week a train arrives from china, near milan, at rho, full of goods and leaving empty. do you want a europe which is still being hurt by chinese competition or do you want a competitive europe, as you claim? and to compete, we must cooperate, we must work, certainly with the caution indicated by salvini, who says that we do not want to become a colony of china, and we want to protect our country from risks in the most delicate areas and thus defend national interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china is certainly a strategic partner but also a great competitor, but too often we do not play a level playing field. the next eu-china summit is a good opportunity to stand together and show that we have a strategy to protect the european fabric of production and to aim at more reciprocity in access to each other's markets. in recent years, the european union has developed more effective defence mechanisms, from anti-dumping to foreign investment screening, which help european companies operate on fairer terms. but that's not enough. this is one of the cases where more europe is needed. we cannot tolerate that some european countries are conniving with chinese interests by not carrying out adequate customs checks at the borders, paving the way for unsafe products to enter our market. nor can we simply conclude national agreements, as italy has recently done, with an agreement that puts the noose around the neck of the italian manufacturing system, or let the interlocutor in beijing be the franco-german directorate. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr danti, you speak of the european approach. i suggest you tell that to president juncker's luxembourg, which has criticised us harshly for signing a memorandum, unless it does the exact same thing the next day. and i would ask you to say the same to president macron, who is hiding behind his false europeanism, in reality, national interests, since on the same days that he was criticizing italy he was tearing up 30 billion in business with china. tell that to chancellor merkel, who travels to germany more than any other european leader, but above all tell that to her party, as gentiloni in 2017 declared in beijing that italy should be the leader of the silk road.
answer to a blue-card question. thank you, mr beghin. i really don't know how to thank you for this question because, you see, you didn't listen to my speech. i said that we need more europe and that the franco-german directory is not good either, but what you have done, selling italian ports, selling italian manufacturing and letting the chinese decide when to put the noose around the neck of italian manufacturing. you opened our ports, we worked to have stronger surveillance of the markets, to have stronger customs. where is mr beghin, who fought the battle against china from our benches? you sold out to china, mr. beghin.
in writing. the european union considers its partnership with china to be of paramount importance, but it must be made clear that the asian giant is also an economic adversary. any form of cooperation must be carried out collectively. i do not understand, for example, italy's choice to distance itself from its european partners last month by abstaining on the proposal to introduce a foreign direct investment (fdi) control instrument. the italian government was the only one not to vote in favour of this key proposal, especially considering that investment from china has increased six-fold in the last 20 years and is directed, lately, to high-tech sectors and often through state-owned companies. the member states are trying to have a fairer relationship with china through the eu, but beijing wants to deal with each country individually to increase its influence more easily. just think of the chinese initiative called 16+1, which has only 11 member states, which is divisive for the eu. we need more europe in international relations and all member states must take responsibility for acting unitedly against beijing.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you all know, in february this year the european commission proposed a revision of directive 2008/96/ec on the safety management of road infrastructure, for which i have happily taken on the role of rapporteur, especially considering that this is a matter of particular concern to me, as a member of parliament and as a mother. and that is exactly the point of view i intend to start with. according to a survey carried out by ansa europe, over 8 000 children have died in serious road accidents in the last ten years. this is a huge number which saddens me immensely and which is part of a much larger picture, which is made up of over 25 000 deaths per year in the union. this directive sets out a whole series of specific objectives to try to reduce these important figures as much as possible, in the spirit of improving road safety in the union, including through better management by the member states, making the enforcement of legislation more effective in order to achieve the objective of zero fatalities in the european union by 2050, the so-called 'vision zero', as proposed by the commission. this review is intended to be one of the focal points for achieving this objective, together with other elements such as improving the interaction of the main european infrastructures with technologically interconnected means and protecting vulnerable users. in essence, we are talking about a very important legislative proposal which has several elements, all of them essential, on which i am very proud to have been able to work with the council, which i would like to thank again for the spirit of cooperation shown during the negotiations. the main thing to remember and always keep in mind is that the previous directive applied only to roads which are part of the ten-t network, whether they are in the planning, design, construction or already open to traffic. on the contrary, the new revision takes into account all motorways and primary roads, not just those forming part of the ten-t network, and this will lead to a drastic reduction in road accidents resulting in fatalities or serious injuries. many of the initiatives proposed by this directive refer to the technological progress in mobility that we are about to experience at this very historic moment, especially with regard to the new generation of cars equipped with increasingly advanced driver assistance systems. so let us remember that to support this and to promote the prevention needed to drastically reduce accidents, we need to work towards having ever smarter and more interconnected roads with these vehicles. for example, member states will have to pay particular attention to the legibility and recognition of signage, both for drivers and for automated driving assistance systems. all this on the basis of common specifications at european level. since it is our duty in this parliament to protect all citizens, we have also made sure that the needs of vulnerable road users - i am talking about pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists - must be taken into account in the member states when implementing the procedures set out in the directive. in the same spirit, we have also provided the opportunity for citizens to submit voluntary reports on the problems they identify at the road level, thus facilitating the interaction between the infrastructure itself and those who use it. finally, we can say that another fundamental step has been taken towards improving road user safety, although i am always aware that this directive is only a piece of a larger picture, which includes prevention and a different safety culture. i am confident that this path will lead to the expected results in the designated time, avoiding that individuals or families suffer the loss of loved ones due to road accidents, events that are both tragic and avoidable if addressed in advance and in the most correct way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, more than 25 000 people died on european roads, and the death rate has remained stable for some years, despite some member states continuing to make progress on safety. paradoxically, less than 10% of fatal road accidents occur on motorways, compared with 37% in urban areas and 55% on country roads. the advantage of a road infrastructure safety management directive is the convergence towards higher standards of infrastructure safety across the union. the application of community rules on infrastructure safety should be extended to all major roads in europe. the most stringent rules, which apply only to major motorways and the transeuropean road network, must also be respected in urban and rural areas. the commission's goal of zero fatalities by 2050 cannot be achieved without the help of technology, making driver assistance and safety systems mandatory, and direct help to member states to pinpoint the most dangerous roads and make them safer. i congratulate the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not do it earlier and i apologise for that. i really thank all the shadow speakers who have followed not only with consistency but also with suggestions and support, sometimes even emotional, because there have been times when our unity, our systematic approach to achieving the common goal, has made a difference. the achievement of this result is proof that when parliament and the other institutions are able to dialogue, to reach an agreement for the common good of the citizens, great things can really be achieved. so i am very proud of this, but it is not just a victory for a few, it is a victory for the whole of parliament and it is a great achievement for all european citizens.
in writing. in order to achieve the goal of 'zero fatalities' by 2050, i welcome the commission's request to amend directive 2008/96/ec on road safety and infrastructure management. the approval of the text will extend the application of the provision to all motorways, including primary roads and those outside the ten-t network. the main innovation is the possibility of making a concrete assessment of road conditions at the network level, taking into account both the safety measures present or visually detectable and a set of other data, which can be deduced from the incidence of accidents occurring on the network, their severity and the need for inspections to resolve sensitive and dangerous situations. another important new feature is the provision for common specific provisions for vertical and horizontal signs, which allow for easy readability and recognition in connection with driver assistance devices installed on vehicles. we will finally have useful and reliable data that will allow us to identify the so-called "death trails". through constant traffic monitoring, we can precisely improve those roads and highways that are not safe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is autism awareness week, a week to bring attention back to the issue of the rights of people with autism. in these five years, i have been very much involved in autism, with various parliamentary and extra-parliamentary initiatives, but above all with a written declaration approved in september 2015 by the european parliament. i have tabled an amendment on 'after us' in the report on the implementation of the european disability strategy, which has not yet been reviewed by the commission. there's so much to do. for example, there is no clinical register of autism, a major gap that requires determination but also collaboration with autism associations, which are often ahead of the institutions. five million european citizens are waiting for concrete answers. a specific strategic response by the european union is needed and can no longer be delayed, with the aim of achieving full recognition of the rights of special people, increasing research and the exchange of best practice in this field and creating the conditions to help families of people with autism.
madam president, i am one of the members who support this motion. i would like to join him in saying that the concerns of some colleagues who fear that this product will undermine national pension systems are completely unfounded. it was clearly stated that this is a product that is complementary, that gives citizens more choice in their decision to secure money for old age, and if we expand the number of private banking products for pension insurance, then in my opinion it is only good. we're creating another way for our citizens to save for retirement. we are creating another private pension product under the third pillar, without undermining the existing national pension systems. this is something that must be borne in mind, and i therefore consider the concerns expressed by some of my colleagues to be absolutely absurd, and no one is talking about the unification of the european pension system and the elimination of national specificities. i very much welcome this proposal, it is an alarming figure to me that only about a quarter of middle-aged people in europe save in private banking pension schemes. it's a very small number because in the future, the current generation of productive fathers will not be able to secure a high enough pension through a continuous financial system. so it makes sense that we're thinking about how to empower middle-aged people to save more for retirement, and this instrument can help do that. i would like to say one thing, i would like the instrument to be more ambitious. i am a little bit critical of the commission and the council for not being able to agree on the banking and, above all, tax benefits of this product. i think if there were tax benefits that were at least competitive with national products, it would be more attractive to citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote in the house on the pepp, a pan-european third pillar pension product, which is additional and complementary to public pensions, is a vote of the utmost importance. on the financial side, pepps can offer the opportunity to channel private savings into productive investment, thereby helping to stimulate economic growth and thus making a tangible contribution to the further development of the capital markets union. on the social front, pepps can play an important role in tackling the growing pension gap that is plaguing our society. however, such new pension products need to be of high quality, highly competitive and sufficiently attractive to the public. it is good that a european instrument is finally being set up to help the growing number of workers, especially young people, who live and work in the european union outside their country of origin, thus allowing them to activate a single supplementary pension product without having to reconstitute the different contribution periods paid in the various member states. however, i must point out a serious criticism in the text of the trilogue, namely the lack of an appropriate role for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in the delicate phase of authorisation of pepp providers. so i think that in order to make this instrument work at its best, we will need to make adjustments and changes in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, whatever your idea of family, i think we can all agree on one thing: the biggest challenge for europe is not globalisation or terrorism, but to continue to create families in the future, in a word to continue to exist. demographic studies point to a collapse in europe's population by 2050, and we must do everything we can to reverse this trend. but if we do not guarantee workers' rights and protect young people, we cannot expect them to have the means to start a family. that is why i am particularly pleased about this directive, which will have a real impact on the lives of millions of european citizens, helping young people and women to obtain better employment conditions and finally reconcile work and family life. after lengthy negotiations, the directive introduces paternity leave in all european countries, setting it at a minimum of 10 days and obliging employers to pay adequately. it also introduces two months of paid, non-transferable parental leave to be divided between the couple to take care of the family, and it also helps to avoid putting the burden of everything on us mothers. we have also asked for and obtained more flexible working hours, including teleworking, to be adapted to the needs of family care, especially in the presence of non-independent, sick or disabled members. of course, we would have liked to have achieved much more, such as greater protection for the selfemployed and entrepreneurs, facilities for micro-enterprises, more incentives for the creation of childcare facilities. we also asked for forms of home care by specialised workers, who would help to reconcile working life with the need to assist children and the elderly. unfortunately, not all our requests were met, but the final result is still acceptable and satisfactory. although not perfect, this directive has the potential to change the lives of millions of citizens for the better and to reverse the demographic collapse of our continent. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, whatever your idea of the family, i invite you to vote in favour of this directive and to make your small contribution to saving our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is right to go in the strategic direction of investing in conciliation policies. the balance between professional and private life is certainly the right direction. we must invest in the value of the family, in the role of the family and in the revival of birth rates, important pillars both for the league, but also for society, for europe itself. the work-life balance helps men, it helps women, it helps the italian economy, it helps the european economy. the fight against demographic decline, against empty cradles, is certainly an important issue, and europe must therefore believe in reconciliation, continue to believe in reconciliation by also rewarding those virtuous regions, those regions such as the lombardy region, which over the years have fortunately developed excellent, cutting-edge models of work-life balance, capable of giving concrete answers to the needs of reconciling life and work, a region such as lombardy which has invested 30 million euros in recent years for kindergartens and for company welfare. i really do ask europe to invest and to believe in the role of the regions, to read the needs of proximity and to respond to the needs of proximity as the lombardy region has done in recent years. investing in the regions means investing in the right response to reconciling work and life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank david casa and agnieszka kozłowska for their commitment and for working on a text which finally deals with the subject of reconciling private and professional life. it is especially important for women, who have been marginalized simply because they have become mothers or because they have to care for dependent family members. by adapting and modernising the eu legal framework, the directive seeks to enable parents and persons with caring responsibilities to better reconcile their work and care duties. the directive builds on and strengthens existing rights, introducing them and maintaining the level of protection already afforded by the european legislation. however, the lack of paid paternity leave and the transferability of parental leave in many member states contributes to the low use of such leave by fathers. i am grateful to my colleagues for their efforts to reverse this trend. i therefore support the balanced approach that has been taken, as it does not harm the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore urge my colleagues today to support this report because it improves gender equality within the european union and, above all, it promotes support for women in their reintegration into the labour market. do it for all the mothers, for all the fathers and for all the future generations of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paradigm of the separation of roles has in fact limited, if not prevented, those traditionally assigned to care - women - from contributing their skills to socioeconomic growth. so this is the moment of responsibility, of sharing, of time, of toil, of the joys of caring, of the affections that make families, however declined, of all families, a community. the new europe is in the pages of this directive, it is the figure of a cultural and political change, because it gives value to parenting, because it calls for a new responsibility from the institutions and the business system, because reconciliation becomes an opportunity, as well as a right to be demanded, through the innovation of organizational models and by safeguarding the acquired rights of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are discussing today will make a positive contribution to closing the gender gap in employment levels by achieving a better balance between work and family life for both men and women, so that they too can develop their careers to the full. it is important that the european union finally establishes rules, albeit minimum rules, on parental leave and paternity leave, providing for adequate pay and providing for the non-transferability of part of the leave, so that the care of children is not exclusively borne by mothers. of course, to encourage full participation of women in the labour market, member states will have to provide workers with the possibility to request flexible working conditions and will have to offer access to childcare and other care facilities and services. finally, the innovative provisions for the benefit of the increasing number of workers who provide care for seriously ill family members are very important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on work-life balance is a major step forward towards a better work-life balance for all working parents. new minimum standards will be introduced for fathers, who will be able to claim at least ten days of paternity leave after the birth or adoption of a child. non-transferable parental leave will be extended to two months per parent and will be paid at least as much as sick leave. it will be for the member states to set a minimum wage. leave for the care of a disabled or seriously ill family member will be increased to five days a year and all parents with children under eight will be entitled to request greater flexibility in working. in practice, families with working parents and carers are given a genuine choice in how to reconcile work and family life. a huge step forward towards a more social europe, a new europe.
thank you, david. congratulations on your work. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken and the commissioner who was with us in the chamber. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i declare resumed the session of parliament adjourned on thursday 4 april 2019.
before we resume work, i want to express my deep concern about the 38-year prison sentence and 148 lashes handed down to iranian lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, winner of the 2012 sakharov prize. his only fault is that he fights for human rights in iran. on behalf of the european parliament, i strongly condemn this absurd ruling and i believe that all of you will agree with me in calling for nasrin's immediate release. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my condolences to the families of the 76 victims of the floods which have hit iran in recent weeks. the european union stands ready to provide humanitarian aid to cope with the emergency.
this is the last session before the european elections. i want to thank you for your work and for your engagement during my presidency. my job is to put at the centre of the political debate the european parliament.
i am very pleased to have organised several meetings with heads of state or government to demonstrate that we are playing a central role in the future of europe. i think that everyone here wants to increase the power of the european parliament and thus strengthen european politics. we worked together for two and a half years. i have tried to remain neutral and to defend your rights, aware of the importance of each and every one of you, whatever your political party or group. i have tried to respect all members and to allow each one to express his or her position. i ask you to forgive me for any mistakes i may make: working, being engaged, is always exposing oneself to making mistakes.
but i have always tried to be honest and loyal to the parliament which i have the honour of presiding over, elected by a majority of you. i have tried to enforce the rules, i have tried to listen to everyone and in these two and a half years i have had the honour of signing the results of your work 180 times. we have achieved extraordinary results, we have tried to be the protagonists, i have always tried to ensure that the european parliament is the controller of the commission, not the controlled by the commission, that it is always on top of the other institutions. i have also tried to keep all the commitments i made to you on the day of my election, when i presented my candidacy. i can assure you that it has been an extraordinary two and a half years for me, and i thank you all again for what you have done. i listened carefully to all the criticisms, all the reservations, even towards me, and for me even those who have different positions from mine gave me useful advice, and i never underestimated the criticisms, and i never underestimated positions different from mine. i've tried to be an independent president, trying to value the work of each and every one of you. we have been able to achieve this also thanks to the commitment of all the officials, all the interpreters, whom i warmly thank for their service to the european union and to the half a billion european citizens whom we represent. without them we could not achieve the objectives we are achieving, even during this last session. thank you very much.
thank you all for your work. this parliament will always be in my heart. thank you, everybody. thank you very much. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
the minutes of the sitting of 3 and 4 april 2019 were distributed. are there any comments?
is that a request or a question? i don't know what you mean.
the answer in a hurry. (the minutes of previous sittings are approved)
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 11 april 2019, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposals for amendments to the final draft agenda. - tuesday: the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 10 april 2019 on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union are moved from wednesday to tuesday morning as the first item on the agenda. are there any comments? (parliament adopted the proposal)
it is not the responsibility of the president, the secretary-general is looking into the matter, as was also said during the last conference of presidents, who will be informed as soon as the decision is taken.
if you do not let me say what it is, if you take the floor, i have to explain what the request is, because otherwise you will have to let me explain what the request is and then i will give you the floor. i'll talk first, then you. - monday: i have received a request from the ecr group to add a statement by the commission on the recognition of the genocide of the pontic greeks of 1914-1923 as the last item before the one-minute speeches. the debate should end with a resolution.
i have received another request from the gue/ngl group to add a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the situation in sudan as the third or fourth item on tuesday afternoon. i give the floor to mr joão pimenta lopes to present the request.
i have received a request from the greens/efa group to add as an item on tuesday afternoon the statements by the council and the commission on the possible extradition of julian assange. (parliament approved the request) i have received a request from the s&d group to add as the first item on wednesday morning a discussion of the report by mr balas on the coordination of social security systems, so that the sitting will start at 8.30 a.m. i give the floor to mrs maria joão rodrigues to present the request of her group.
i have received a request from the efdd group to add the council and commission statements on universal digital identity, a fundamental right for all european citizens, as the first item of the morning. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr castaldo to explain the position of his group.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i propose that we add to the agenda a debate on a fundamental right: the right to digital identity. the net is now a space in which both public activity and private life can be expressed, and it is therefore time, ladies and gentlemen, to put in place concrete safeguards for the rights of the individual. what happens on the web has direct repercussions on real life and we must therefore ensure that anyone can access it under the same conditions and with the same protections as all other citizens. net neutrality is a fundamental principle that ensures equality in the virtual world. the union must intervene and this is no longer a question to be put off. the fundamental right of access to the internet is the prerequisite for enjoying the opportunities offered by the net, but once access is obtained, every single european citizen must be protected and recognizable. that is why we want our parliament to address the issue of the fundamental right to digital identity. this is linked to a number of rights, such as the right to the protection of personal data, which is also recognised by the charter of nice as a fundamental right, and the right to be forgotten. i therefore ask this house to approve the insertion of a debate with a resolution on this point for next wednesday morning.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally adopted a directive that all of europe has been waiting for for years. it is estimated that, between tax-dodged resources and missed foreign investment, corruption costs our union as a whole some 904 billion euros a year in gross domestic product, and yet, to this day, we have no specific legislation to protect whistleblowers, the very ones who are always at the forefront of this fight. among them are the best citizens of this union, the best journalists who often go ahead with their investigations just when they feel they are about to dig into the mud and bring out the truth. these are the people we should be grateful to. we are all indebted to these people and they cannot be marginalized from society. these people must be protected, because what happened to daphne caruana galizia in 2017 and ján kuciak in 2018 can never and must never happen again. in fact, this directive consistently provides protection against any form of retaliation by the reporting persons, for the whistleblower as well as for his family, and leaves the member states the possibility of adopting a discipline even more advanced than this minimum standard. it is therefore paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that on the eve of the adoption of this directive, and we shall be discussing this tomorrow, julian assange, the founder of wikileaks, is arrested in the united kingdom, and has brought to light facts and connections of the utmost importance that we would otherwise never have known. assange must not be extradited to the us, where he faces the death penalty for his uncomfortable relationships, not to my europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as is well known, transparency in political, institutional and economic behaviour and dynamics is essential to safeguard the general interest and thus to strengthen democracy. what we are doing is a very important step in the right direction. the subject was delicate, but we have to thank these courageous people, the whistleblowers, who have exposed, over these past months and years, completely negative facts like luxleaks, the panama papers, the paradise papers, with the contradiction of working for the general interest and being persecuted because nothing was defending them. we are giving them, for the first time, a safety net that will be very important in stimulating equally positive behaviour over time. we must thank you, the rapporteur and all those who have worked with conviction. you will also have an important follow-up role, because i believe that the commission will have to monitor the implementation of what we are about to launch with the vote tomorrow, because the states that were against will not miss the opportunity to try to question what we have established. i thank you for what you have done and i hope that you will continue to give us practical help in applying it properly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, virginie rozière. i am not without emotion when i address this house for the last time, especially since it is to close the circle with the adoption of this fundamental directive for which we have also been fighting with our itco intergroup since the beginning of the mandate. we were calling for minimum standards of protection for whistleblowers throughout europe, with trustworthy channels and due protection for whistleblowers and whistleblowers, as happened in the case of luxleaks and the panama papers. they deserve full protection and not retaliation or even condemnation, because they are protecting the public interest, and i hope that tomorrow this house will give a signal of firmness and strength. i joined five years ago as a proud european federalist, and i leave even more convinced of why our union is so necessary to give the right level of answers to the challenges that our future is at stake. the most beautiful thing i have learned in these five years is that i have discovered that i and many other colleagues share the same values, the same struggles and the same problems as european citizens, and that we are trying to find practical solutions to them together. thank you so much for your cooperation over the years. good work, everybody.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a package called risk reduction within the european banking system. what i am wondering is whether we really believe that we have reduced the risks within the european banking system and the most important risks. in other words, as i have been saying for five years in this parliament, the most important risk is in the liquid securities held by the european systemic banks. liquid securities are derivatives, they are securities that have difficulty being subsequently valued by the supervisory authorities and in the event of a crisis they can lose a lot of value in a short time. and these securities by the supervisory authorities and not even by these regulations are being put under a magnifying glass, and this is a serious mistake that we will very likely pay dearly for. and the biggest mistake, which is the basis of risk reduction, is to concentrate the will to reduce risk only on the credit front. credit is the lifeblood of the european economy, of small and mediumsized enterprises, of households, of people who want to buy houses, machinery and so on. the fact that a bank is restricted to providing credit to the extent that it is asked for too many capital requirements, very often, in a way that is excessive, it is enough to think that, despite the existing requirements, with the revision of the brrd banks will be asked to place additional securities on the market to obtain more capital in the event of a bail-in and the resolution authorities may ask banks to increase these requirements as well. and i want to understand now that whoever has money in one of these banks will feel safe to keep it in there, to the extent that an authority will ask this bank to go to the market and ask for the capital requirements. what is happening is a great disaster from my point of view, the whole structure of the banking union should be clearly reviewed, because it creates great imbalances and creates great disaffection on the part of the citizens towards european policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the road to completing banking union is still very long and it requires concrete policy initiatives to prevent and limit future banking crises. member states should, for example, ensure that financial institutions absorb losses sufficiently to minimise their impact on financial stability and taxpayers. it would be important to have competent authorities with immediate powers to support financial institutions in difficulty, as would the need to create cross-border markets where all consumers can benefit from the positive effects of an integrated european banking system. finally, greater attention should be paid to the assessment of environmental and social risks, and measures should be encouraged to address these risks appropriately. the new rules are all in this direction, they will reduce risks in the financial system, while ensuring that banks play a more active role in promoting growth, development and investment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last one minute speech of this parliament, a parliament which i have lived through with great intensity, always trying to represent my country in the best possible way. i have spent many hours in this chamber and i am glad i did, as i am proud to have been among the most present and productive members. this week i will be campaigning to bring to the 1784 municipalities of southern italy the idea of europe that has been growing in me over the years. a europe of peace for all, but also the ambition of the need for a united states of europe, and i will do so in a beautiful but difficult and complex territory, a territory that deserves to be redeemed by a ruling class finally worthy of the name, a territory tired of the usual politicians who deceive the citizens with embarrassing promises to clients. i say to the voters: we must respect our land, we must raise the bar of legality in this election campaign, we must put an end to this kind of monopoly of consent, based on the concept of do ut des. long live the european union, long live italy, long live the south of italy.
dear colleagues, notre dame was the first cathedral of my life. as a former citizen of paris, as an italian, as a european, my heart is wounded, as is that of each of us. after what happened yesterday in paris, we stand with the french and france. this wound won't heal quickly. we all have to commit. i welcome the idea of a member who has suggested that we raise funds today. so we're going to put a box in front of the house, and we could put what we win today in it to send a message of solidarity and try to rebuild what can be. that would be a positive message from the european parliament. i would also like to thank, on behalf of the european parliament, all the french firefighters who fought the fire which was destroying the cathedral yesterday. i am counting on you and i believe that this message from the european parliament - as well as the support, i believe, of the european commission and the council - will do france, the french and all europeans good. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 10 april 2019 on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union (2019/2694 ((rsp)).
i would remind my colleagues that at the council meeting i insisted on the dignity of parliament, on the role of our parliament, that it cannot be used as a taxi, and that therefore the role of our institution must also be taken into account in the whole of the brexit negotiations. this is a priority for us, and i think i can speak for all our colleagues, we are the first institution in the treaty and we expect to be respected by all 28 member states. i thank mr gonzález pons for speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the number of european citizens who are employed in forms of precarious work is increasing also because of the rapid expansion of new sectors of the economy, of digital platforms. the most affected are, once again, young people and women, often trapped in so-called atypical, sometimes fraudulent forms of work, including bogus self-employment or zero-hour contracts. the directive we are voting on today is a clear improvement on existing european legislation, offering workers greater transparency and certainty about their working conditions and new rights for over 200 million workers. but more needs to be done. my political group, the socialist and democratic group, will continue to call for a framework directive on decent working conditions in all forms of employment. i am also determined to fight a fundamental battle: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the work of the european parliament. things can and must change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european creation of the european labour authority is a great success for our group in the european parliament and a first result of the adoption of the pillar of social rights. we have been fighting for this for years now, showing that our aim of a social and just europe is not just a matter of proclamations, but that it is a matter of taking concrete action to improve the lives of citizens and to help them find work. the new authority will be an important instrument in ensuring greater protection and equal dignity and rights for workers moving within the union, including across borders, in supporting member states in the fight against social dumping, undeclared work and underground work, and in ensuring greater consistency on the issue of posting of workers. i would also remind the commission that it is imperative for parliament to be involved in the choice of the seat because, like the ema, we share responsibility for its financing and therefore also share responsibility for the location. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission supports the recommendation to the european parliament to give its consent to the accession of the european union to the geneva act. on the substance, however, the commission’s position differs from the one taken by the council and the european parliament as regards the possibility for all member states to join the geneva act in view of the european union’s exclusive competence in this case. the commission would, very exceptionally, have been ready to agree that in this particular case, the seven member states that have been parties to the lisbon agreement for a long time could have been authorised to accede to the geneva act in the interest of the european union. in this respect, i would like to refer to the commission’s statement on this issue, which has been submitted to the council and to the european parliament.
the reporter. i would like to stress the importance of this recommendation because olive oil production is an important sector for the economies of mediterranean europe, including italy, and is a product of excellence for european exports, which has been badly affected, for example olive growing in salento, which has been affected by frost and by the detachment. i am in favour of parliament giving a favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement, to ensure that the european union continues to contribute actively to international cooperation on olive oil and table olives. however, i cannot but deplore the delay in the transmission of this agreement to the european parliament and the lack of timely information from other institutions during the negotiations. international agreements relating to the european union's trade policy shall be subject to parliament's consent. for this reason, i call on the council and the commission to keep parliament duly informed, in particular of any decision that may be taken in relation to article 4 of the council decision.
the reporter. thank you, mr president, with the adoption of this regulation we are adding a new element to the policy of managing the migration phenomenon. i thank the shadow rapporteurs who supported me in this process and, with a great sense of responsibility, made possible the rapid adoption of the regulation and i hope to return for the next parliamentary term, so that i can continue the work i have done in this mandate with a great sense of responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the demographic changes of recent years have led to a greater diversification of the working population. digitalisation has facilitated the creation of new forms of employment, shaping new and more flexible employment relationships. today, one in four employment contracts is atypical. the directive on the transparency of working conditions allows all workers to be informed of their rights and obligations from the beginning of their employment relationship. workers will have the right to agree with their employer on the periods they are available for and the arrangements for giving notice. call workers will no longer be able to be dismissed if they refuse a job on very short notice and employers will no longer be able to prevent workers on a zero-hour contract from accepting a further assignment from another employer. today, therefore, we are putting another brick in the social pillar, a step forward for a europe which serves the most vulnerable.
gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the war in libya will not be resolved peacefully, i ask the vice-president to speak clearly about the migrants trapped in the camps so that they do not come to us, evacuation is very limited says unhcr. so i ask you this: i want operation sofia back in the field immediately to provide us with ships to prevent shipwrecks. the mediterranean is the only way out, blocking it is a crime against humanity. the commission should recommend that the return of refugees to an increasingly insecure country be stopped immediately, that evacuation be facilitated by humanitarian corridors in war zones, and that water and food be provided to detained migrants. the european union is also calling for the release of the hostages and for the release of the hostages to be released. i'd like to know how you answer that charge.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, libya is now fighting a proxy war, and it is clear to all that saudi arabia, egypt, russia, turkey and qatar have clear political agendas. but it is much more serious that this deadly game is being played out by member states, ignoring the position of the european union and the united nations, which are trying to fuel and keep alive a peace process between the parties. the french declaration of neutrality to haftar's actions seems to be a clear case of excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. and there are some disturbing news scoops in recent days, which would testify to the french opposition to a first version of the european declaration, considered too anti-haftar, as well as the presence of french military advisers on the ground. and so, colleagues, i ask you: what game are we playing? after the aachen agreement, macron's hypocritical europeanism has for the second time denied and debased european foreign policy. i absolutely refuse to believe that these eight years of the libyan nightmare have served only to replace one dictator with another more compliant one. i denounce this hypocrisy, i ask that president macron come and answer these questions in this parliament, otherwise he will throw off his mask once and for all.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, italian intelligence reports and even sarraj's own statements speak of an impressive number of refugees and immigrants currently in libya, hundreds of thousands ready to head for the italian coast. it is a very serious problem, but i think that the commitment expressed by the high representative does not give us much hope in terms of the actual influence of the european union and the member states on a short-term solution and, above all, on preventing libya from falling into chaos immediately or in the near future. the impasse in fighting between general haftar's army and the militias defending prime minister sarraj could signal a turning point, as it could leave ample room for politics and negotiation once again. haftar has not broken through the front, he has not penetrated into the heart of the capital and in all likelihood the defection of some of the tripoli militias he counted on did not occur. so there is a budget of ten days which is still modest and to call the ongoing civil war in tripoli a civil war is certainly an exaggeration, perhaps wanted by circles that are anxious to exploit this pretext to perhaps reopen italian ports to new waves of illegal immigrants. i think that at this point it must be said that the failure of the military options raises the prices and the importance of a key country like italy, whose government seems to me to have the right cards to be able to be a co-actor in a process of rebalancing and reordering of an area very important for europe, extremely dangerous if we think of the presence of jihadists, of warriors of allah. but then i would say why, in addition to having excellent relations with both rival leaders, do we not take advantage of the position of italy, which has kept its embassy open and is confirming itself as a country ready to play a preponderant role, a very important role which seems to me to be much higher than the absolutely insignificant role of this european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is no time for divisions. the hell of libya reminds us all of our responsibilities: the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. the most urgent need is for a ceasefire, but we must all also contribute to the search for a lasting political solution, a solution which has as its long-term perspective the pacification, stabilization and reconstruction of the country. the cost in terms of lives is very high. schools, hospitals, refugee camps, still vulnerable people, many of whom are imprisoned in a situation of grave danger, have been targeted, adding to the number of women, men and children whom we cannot leave without international protection. yet, in the hell of libya, there are still those who consider it a safe landing country. there are still those who speculate on people's lives in search of easy electoral consensus. now more than ever, european governments must show responsibility and we must return to operation sophia. i ask the high representative: but is libya considered a safe country? we need an answer, and thank you for your work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this last plenary session we are again discussing the us administration's open support for the netanyahu government's violation of international law. the israeli claim to the golan heights, a disputed territory inhabited by 25,000 arab druze and 20,000 israeli settlers, dates back to the post-1967 period and we are concerned about the recognition by part of the international community of this claim and the construction of other settlements in the west bank. it is as if it had been decided that the "two peoples, two states" solution is now an intellectual chimera and not the only viable solution to stop the conflict that is now endless. my delegation is in favour of respect for international law, respect for the pre-1967 borders and recognition of the state of palestine. i saw with my own eyes, in february 2016, how entire generations of men and women live and grow up with despair in their eyes, driven from their homes and their basic rights trampled on. we thank those israelis who oppose this authoritarian and illegitimate drift, which crushes and humiliates our palestinian brothers in the so-called only democracy in the middle east. please stand up, not for yourself, not for palestine, but for the whole world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 30 years, sudan is about to turn the page, the impossible is finally possible. omar al-bashir, the dictator president wanted for years for genocide in darfur was finally deposed on april 11, but the fall of the general by the army did not stop the popular mobilization. the protesters are too keenly aware of the need to mock the formation of a military executive, albeit a provisional one. the fear of falling back into the clutches of a despotic regime like al-bashir's is too great. the protests continue and will not stop until the legitimate demands of the opposition are met: immediate transition to a civilian government, justice for protesters killed by the police and above all the handover and trial of all the leaders of the former regime for a complete eradication of bashir's "deep state". in the light of these events, i therefore welcome the approach of the high representative. only a credible and inclusive process can meet the aspirations of the sudanese people and deliver the reforms that the country needs, but to trigger this process requires an immediate transfer of power to a civilian government. europe must ensure that this transition takes place peacefully, with all our political and economic weight. we cannot allow a military government to be recognized. we cannot allow more innocent blood to be spilled.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the massive use of the internet and the digitisation of our economies have created, as many have pointed out, a new strategic emergency to ensure that all citizens and economic actors have the opportunity to grow and develop in protected virtual spaces. we need to act quickly, right at the moment when we are discussing the development of the 5g network, its possibilities and its risks, and the possible interference of russia and other actors in the upcoming elections. forty days before the election, these threats are very real. public institutions in germany, estonia, and other countries have already been the target of coordinated attacks. for this reason we have a responsibility to respond to these dangers. the commission's action, which has proposed a regulatory package on these challenges, is to be welcomed, but unfortunately the union is still behind, and we have a duty to go further. we need more investment, we need to strengthen coordination between the member states, we need to avoid unacceptable interference such as the cambridge analytica we know so well. that is the objective we must all pursue together.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate. i’m just going to respond on two points, if that’s alright. first of all there have been a number of suggestions, particularly from behind me, that in some way the work that we’re doing to tackle disinformation is against free speech, that in some way it amounts to censorship. i want to be absolutely clear about this. we have never suggested, we will not suggest, that it is the responsibility of someone, whether it is public authorities, still less private sector, to judge whether a piece of political speech or a piece of political information is true or false, good or bad. the measures that we are seeking to promote through the code are measures to promote greater transparency around political debate and political speech, greater transparency around the provenance of particular pieces of information – where does it come from? – so that we as citizens can be better equipped to assess that information and form our own judgments about it. that’s what is involved in the measures that we are promoting through the code, to have greater transparency around political adverts, sponsored content, to tackle the problems of bots and fake accounts, to use fact checkers more effectively, to have that independent scrutiny that many of you have spoken about, so that we know what is happening on these social media platforms, to have effective corrections when some piece of demonstrable disinformation has been circulated. for me, that’s the essence of defending free speech and free debate, and it is as far away as you can be from any sense of censorship. the second thing that i want to react to: the importance of our cyber resilience, protecting ourselves from cyber-attacks, cyber-enabled interference. this is absolutely crucial. it’s why the cybersecurity act that you have voted and supported is so important, the new cybersecurity agency and the role that goes with it. but as a number of you have underlined, this needs to be implemented. i can assure you that we will do everything we can from the commission side to follow up the effective implementation of the cybersecurity act, and indeed i hope that you will also support the cybersecurity competence centres and the research into cybersecurity that is going to underpin our future cybersecurity resilience. we have to protect our critical digital infrastructure, the plumbing of our digital lives, of our digital political debate. which is why it’s so important that we’ve now got these measures on foreign direct investment (fdi) screening, that we’ve got measures proposed around 5g security, so that people understand the importance not just of making judgments about digital infrastructure on the basis of price and cost, but also integrating security into those decisions. abraham lincoln said: ‘elections belong to the people. it’s their decision’. we need to make sure it stays that way.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is our duty to protect our elections, in full respect of fundamental rights such as freedom of speech, media and association. we do not want to be the ‘ministry of truth’, but we cannot be naive. these elections will not be business as usual, and our citizens have the right to vote freely. protecting elections is at the core of defending our european values. so far, the eu institutions and the member states have spared no efforts to ensure preparedness. we understood the need for working together, learning from each other with the exchange of information and best practices, and putting in contact authorities which in the past worked in silence. we put in place measures encouraging greater online transparency, accountability and integrity, ensuring the application of the general data protection regulation and enhancing cybersecurity for the european elections to preserve the integrity of their electoral systems and infrastructure, strengthening citizens’ resilience and critical thinking. we are ready for the possible challenges ahead. allow me to quote from 1984 by george orwell, who wrote: ‘power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes of your own choosing’. some may want to interfere in the free elections of our political classes, reshape the minds of our voters by micro-targeting political advertisements and disinformation attacks. it is our role to protect democracy and internet freedom from such powers. we owe it to our citizens.
the joint debate is closed. the president announced yesterday two interpretations of the rules of procedure proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. the efdd group has raised an objection to the interpretation of the second indent of the first subparagraph of article 32 (5), and this interpretation of the regulation will therefore be put to the vote tomorrow. as regards the interpretation of article 149a (2), no objections were raised within the 24-month period, and this interpretation is therefore deemed to be approved in accordance with article 226. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing horizon europe - the framework programme for research and innovation - and laying down the rules for its participation and dissemination (com ((2018) 0435 - c8-0252/2018 - 2018/0224 (cod)) (a8-0401/2018), and the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the specific programme for the implementation of horizon europe - the framework programme for research and innovation (com ((2018) 0436 - c8-0253/2018 - 2018/0225 (cod)) (a8-0410/2018).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur on both sides of the legislative aisle, i am pleased that we have struck the right balance between research and innovation, that we have pushed for a particular focus on climate change, that we have supported the transversal nature and inclusion of the social sciences and humanities in all programme activities and, moreover, that we have ensured adequate support not only for universities and research centres, for start-ups, but also for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises through a tool for small and medium-sized enterprises. we are disappointed, however, that we have not allowed free access to data, which is still heavily restricted by the defence of private commercial interests, and we are displeased with the marginal importance attributed to incremental research. as regards the structure of the decision, the areas of intervention identified in the global challenges and european industrial competitiveness pillar allow action to be taken on health, culture, safety, including natural disasters, but also on industry, climate, energy and mobility, food, natural resources, agriculture and the environment in order to improve the well-being of european citizens. the work on horizon europe will have to be completed in the next legislature, but what has been done so far contains the key elements for supporting the cornerstones needed to build and improve our future, namely research and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on horizon europe is certainly good news for the people of europe. we shall have a richer, more effective and, we hope, simpler and more transparent research programme in the future. i am sure that the commissioner will be more attentive to the economic and social consequences, as has been stressed, and more attentive to innovation, and i think that the opening of this chapter of innovation must certainly be credited to commissioner moedas. i would also like to thank mr nica and mr ehler and mrs cabezón, the shadow rapporteur, for their efforts. i think that research is one of the most successful programmes of the european union's activities and in no other field can it be said that the union is a force, that it gives us the ability to deal with very complex issues that individual countries could not even deal with. so i am personally pleased with the support given in the new programme to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are an essential part of the european and italian economies. and it is good that the sme instrument is also included in horizon europe for the future, because it has been successful. one final word on the priorities recalled: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we have heard from greta today and i think that the best way to ensure a future for young people is to commit as many resources as possible to tackling climate change and the new challenges it poses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues for the results achieved. we are quite satisfied with 35% of the activities dedicated to climate, the focus on smes, cultural heritage, social and human priorities. but today, at the end of the legislature, i would like to make an appeal, to leave a few seconds for political reflection. human civilization has always been intersected with technological innovation, from the first arrows, from the plow, man has used technology to improve his living conditions. yet, on the other hand, innovation has not always led to improvements. the sumerians discovered that their wonderful irrigation system increased the salinity of the soils, making them less fertile. the industrial revolution, with coal, brought great development, but it made cities unhealthy. and then there's mass mobility, when a simple geometry calculation could predict congestion in cities. today, progress is driven by digital innovation, making what was just science fiction a few years ago, a reality. but even here we are already seeing important side effects. algorithms that in high-frequency transactions impact markets, pervasive control of the lives and emotions of individuals, as is already happening in china. and what will be possible, for better or for worse, with robotics and artificial intelligence, perhaps even with the manifestation of the singularity. so prevention is better than cure, because then it becomes harder to reverse. the nuclear threat, climate change, they all prove it. we need more wisdom from researchers, from stakeholders, each at his or her own level, so that man, his dignity, his psychological and physical health, the stability of ecosystems are always at the centre of all future technological, industrial and legislative choices. the science must be implemented, it is always important cum grano salis. let us never forget what nature has endowed us with, a natural intelligence in an analogue body. we are working for our future, for a healthy mind in a healthy body. life itself, on a safe planet.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner bieńkowska, after many years, and following the unjustifiable deadlock of the 2013 product safety legislative package, we are about to adopt new rules for a more effective control system in the union. the agreement reached will make the european system more modern, more efficient and more coordinated, to ensure that only safe and compliant products and fair competition in the single market reach final consumers. every day we encounter dangerous, illegal, counterfeit products, in increasing numbers and affecting mainly sectors with a strong impact on daily life. 32% of toys, 58% of electronic devices and 47% of construction products do not meet the safety or consumer information requirements laid down by law. in addition, the growing share of counterfeit products affecting the major manufacturing countries is one of the main forms of unfair competition for many european companies. behind these figures and initial considerations lies a market surveillance system that is still too inefficient, lacking adequate resources, lacking sufficient coordination at european level and not responding well to changes in the global economy. a system in which 500 national authorities operate and where there is not even a complete mapping of them, where there is no efficient communication. in transposing the commission's proposal, parliament has worked hard on many fronts. i shall confine myself here to mentioning just a few of our priorities. one of the main added values of the regulation is the provision on the so-called reference operator. for most products on the european market, including the most dangerous ones, there will be an obligation to have an economic operator who is able to respond in the event of non-conformity or defects in the product itself. it is no longer conceivable that a dangerous, counterfeit or illegal product should not be responsible for its production. we have also introduced more specific provisions to protect consumers who buy online, which must be guaranteed with the same level of product safety as those sold through traditional channels. we also believe that there should be greater cooperation at political and operational level between the authorities of the member states, in order to build common strategies and ensure a uniform and consistent system of controls. in particular, we want to eliminate 'port shopping', i.e. the existence of entry points favoured by dishonest traders because of the less rigid or sometimes total absence of customs controls. we have therefore set out harmonised objectives and standards for border controls, common risk methodologies, and increased coordination and mutual assistance between national authorities at the level of the european network. we also demanded a system of supervision, where there is no longer any room for conflicts of interest between the controller and the controlled, or for preferential treatment for the operators who are not in compliance. we have therefore supported the european commission's proposal to set up a network of public laboratories in the european union, which can increase the monitoring capacity of individual member states, based on specific competences and shared priorities. finally, we have increased the powers available to national authorities to carry out effective investigations and controls, including in the web world, with regard to the most technologically sophisticated products. these are the main results achieved. i hope there will be a broad consensus on this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have heard the rapporteur list the percentages for products which are still unsafe. they're impressive, they're worrying. think about 32 percent of toys, they're for children, mostly, and 40 percent of personal protective equipment, they're for our bodies. in the face of this situation, with the growth of electronic commerce, it is inevitable that there will be greater risks and it is equally necessary that the steps forward that we have tried to put together, with a result as important and positive as the one we are discussing, be taken. now, it is also important to define an economic operator who ensures compliance of all products. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. in the previous legislature, parliament had voted on a very ambitious text on product safety, which had been blocked in the council because of opposition to the introduction of the 'made in' rules. too bad we could have gotten to this point sooner. in any case, let us look at what has been done and it will now be up to the future commission to make practical in all the countries what we are positively discussing and approving, i imagine, tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, thank you very much for all your comments and contributions during this discussion, but first and foremost, i want to thank you for your engagement and for your devotion to this file, to this package. with tomorrow’s vote, you will be sending a very strong and clear message on the safety and compliance of products in the eu single market. i am convinced that this regulation, which we have achieved agreement on, is a balanced and comprehensive one. it will ensure, as i underlined before, a much better cooperation between all market surveillance and customs authorities in the eu. it will help market surveillance in the eu to really adapt to the challenges of the 21st century, and of course it will complete our goods package. so, i want to thank all of those involved in this effort. i want to thank parliament, but of course also the romanian presidency for your support on this file. i am convinced that with this regulation we will have taken an important step towards a really true and fair single market in the eu.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation during the months we worked on this regulation, which is a very substantial regulation. we have had to deal with many issues, many points, and the cooperation of parliament's negotiating team has been truly extraordinary. at the same time, i should like to thank commissioner bieńkowska and the commission, because in difficult moments when cooperation was needed, they stood by us and tried to mediate our positions with those of the council, and i thank both the austrian presidency, under which i began this process, and the romanian presidency, which has completed it. in my final reply, i would like to say two things. the first concerns financial resources. this regulation is in conjunction with the draft single market programme, where we have included the financial resources, as the commissioner said, which are intended to ensure the legs of this regulation, they are intended to ensure operational efficiency and we hope that in the next legislature, when we are going to determine this programme on the internal market, the resources that parliament has put in place will be confirmed to ensure that this which we envisage in the regulation is market surveillance, which is effective in practice and, to do this, also requires resources. let me say one more thing, what we want to do with this regulation and what we have achieved is to have equal treatment between european and non-european companies. all too often, non-european companies had easy access without demonstrating the necessary elements of conformity of the goods they were bringing into the european market. this is something that helps to create a larger and fairer internal market between european and non-european companies and the same goes for companies that market online and offline. protecting the single market means ensuring that consumers comply with european rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the new rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gabriel, this regulation has the merit of rebalancing the economic relations between the large platforms and the more than one million european companies that operate through online intermediaries, which are often dependent on them. some examples of all: the new rules will provide greater transparency on products and services offered online, more information on the parameters that determine the positioning of an offer on the web page, and more protection against unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of contracts by platforms. these rules will bring benefits to the millions of citizens who increasingly choose to shop online and who will enjoy lower prices, more choice and more information. in recent months the european parliament has shown that it does not bow to the interests of the digital giants, but that it protects european companies by writing new rules that better protect the most disadvantaged party to the contract.
in writing. the worrying revelations about the transparency of scientific studies used for the assessment of glyphosate have led to the need to restore public confidence in the european risk assessment system. the 'transparency package', which we will be adopting tomorrow, will result in the possibility for citizens to have automatic access to all scientific research and information submitted by industry in the pesticide risk assessment process. stakeholders and the public will be consulted on the studies presented. at the same time, where duly justified, confidentiality shall be ensured by establishing the type of information which may be considered to be significantly prejudicial to commercial interests and which may therefore not be disclosed. a european database will be set up at efsa containing the notifications of all studies commissioned to ensure that companies applying for authorisations submit all relevant information, without omitting any unfavourable information. not everything that was requested in the dossier submitted by the pest committee has yet been implemented, much work still needs to be done, but it is an important step forward for europe, the world leader in high food safety standards.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this discussion. i would like to repeat that we fully rely on the independence and professionalism of the courts in the united kingdom. and i remain convinced that the fundamental rights and the right to a fair trial will be fully respected in the decision of the court.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for the opportunity to debate this topical issue of high importance. we will all closely follow the developments of mr assange’s case. thank you very much once again for your attention.
the agenda includes the report by mr guillaume balas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and regulation (ec) no 987/2009 laying down the procedures for implementing regulation (ec) no 883/2004 (com (2016) 0815 - c8-0521/2016 - 2016/0397 (cod)) (a8-0386/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i am pleased to be here for this debate on the revision of the regulations on social security coordination. fifteen years after the last revision, this commission has proposed a new and necessary modernisation. that modernisation is much needed to address new challenges and opportunities in the fields of long-term care, unemployment benefits, family benefits and the rules on applicable legislation for posted workers. we adopted our proposal more than two years ago in order to ensure fairness in the free movement of workers and citizens in the internal market. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr guillaume balas, and the many members of the parliament who deeply invested in this file, to bring about the improvements that our citizens, our workers and our businesses are waiting for. facilitating parental leave allowances for mobile citizens, clarifying the right of citizens in need of long-term care, giving job seekers more opportunities to find work abroad – these are some examples on how the proposed modernisation would improve citizens’ daily life. for me, honourable members, it has always been essential to coordinate social security systems with rules that are clear, fair and enforceable. this is indeed the only way to secure continued support for our internal markets. fairness means that the rules are equitable to all and not designed to benefit one category of stakeholders to the detriment of the others. it means taking into account the interests of both the member states of origin and the receiving member states. fairness means rules that allow mobile citizens and workers to move to another country in proper conditions and take into account the interests of taxpayers and the interest in maintaining adequate social security systems. fairness means for me also preserving the business opportunities for all the companies and the self-employed that make use of free movement in good faith to serve clients across europe, be it businesses or consumers. and fairness also means preserving and improving tools to fight abuses and fraud. these are the principles on which we have based our proposal. these have also been the objectives that have guided us throughout the interinstitutional negotiations with the parliament and the council. the provisional agreement that we reached in trilogues has not been confirmed, because there was no sufficient majority amongst the member states. but i believe that the compromise that we reached should inspire us for the work that remains to be done. mr president, dear rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs, members of parliament, this parliament now has the opportunity to agree on its position in first reading and thereby open the way for further progress in this important file. i count on your constructive spirit and on our shared motivation to make good use of this opportunity. this is what our citizens, our workers and our businesses expect from us.
thank you, commissioner, and we are now hearing the views of the political groups and, at this first stage, we are not accepting a 'blue card'. for the ppe group, mr schulze, it is one minute and thirty seconds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that updating the rules to facilitate labour mobility and ensure equal access to social security systems for the ever-growing number of mobile workers in europe is an important part of building a more inclusive and more social europe and the coordination of social security schemes is in line with this european principle of freedom of movement, although of course, as social security schemes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the states, this is only coordination, but this coordination would be a great step forward towards greater legislative clarity and harmonisation. unfortunately, on some issues which we consider important, such as that concerning crossborder and transnational workers, who can decide where to receive unemployment benefits and are vulnerable workers who deserve protection - the other complex point under discussion is that of how and where to receive unemployment benefits for those seeking work in another european country - these are rules which unfortunately we will not be able to define completely. it is a pity, because i believe that if we had been able to reach an agreement on the proposals of the trilogue, we would have achieved a good result. as you said, commissioner, unfortunately we will have to postpone until next time.
the next item on the agenda is the debate with the prime minister of the republic of latvia, krišjānis kariņš, on the future of europe (2019/2673(rsp)). today, it is possible to start immediately. everybody knows our friend, a former member of this parliament for this year, the prime minister of latvia. thank you, mr kariņš, for accepting our invitation for this important debate on the future of the european union. you are at home today. you know this parliament very well and the debate with you will be very easy. you know very well the position of the european parliament, the importance of the european parliament. you know the president of the european commission and the vice-president of the european commission. thank you for coming. as you know, we want the european parliament at the centre of the political debate on the future of the european union. you are a member ad honorem of this parliament, for this, welcome and i immediately give you the floor.
krišjānis, you are very popular in this parliament.
i am very grateful to the commission president, and i am very grateful to mr jean-claude. thank you for your cooperation. we have certainly had some exchanges of views on a few occasions, but that is the debate between the commission and parliament. the most important thing is that we have all worked for our citizens, the citizens of europe. we need europe: of course, we will have to change and improve it, but defending europe is the only way to protect our citizens. we have a history together. what happened two days ago in notre dame demonstrated that there is a european heart, that we have a common heritage, that we share the same values. and that's even if we speak different languages. that is why i thank you for your commitment, for your work, for the discussions we have had here. thank you very much again, jean-claude. we shall see you in council, but i thank you for your availability and your presence here in parliament. thank you very much and good work.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister, it is a great honour to welcome you today to your new role as prime minister in this house which, as you have said, you know well from being a member of parliament for almost ten years. it is an even greater honour because you are not only the last head of government before the next european elections, but also because in your speech you set out - and we thank you for it - important prospects for the union which we will have to build after 26 may, and for these reasons i welcome you on behalf of the socialist and democratic group. as the latest head of government to visit this parliament, which is now at the end of its eighth term, your visit is also an excellent opportunity for us to discuss your country, latvia, and its role within the european union. it is always a good thing for us in the european parliament to meet one of our former colleagues, as many of you have mentioned, in the guise of a representative of a national executive. we are glad of it, and we hope that it will increase. that said, we are here in this house expressing a common and concrete aspiration of the citizens of europe to build together a strong union capable of meeting the challenges of our time, because, on its own, a member state as small as yours or as populous as my country, italy or france or others, not only you reminded us, cannot do anything against the negative effects of globalisation or climate change, but it cannot even ensure its own defence or ensure economic development of any importance for its country. president juncker, i love europe as much as you do, but i am fighting for the united states of europe, states in the plural, not in the singular, not a large european state but a united states of europe, and so i do not see what the problem is. i would like to thank you for your commitment to europe, including on behalf of my group, since today, as you said, is your last day in this parliament. we have appreciated your commitment, if not to the united states of europe, to a united europe, which is perhaps even more than the united states of europe. mr president, we hope that what you have said to us represents a greater european commitment on the part of your government, which has so far shown some signs of ambiguity about its europeanist colour. in a context where the european states are no longer able to weigh individually on the international chessboard, would it not be time, as the honourable member has also mentioned, to put an end to the rule of unanimity in council decisions, which you also support and accept, a rule which unfortunately only enhances the individual and particular interests of the member states at the expense of the general interest of the union? you have reminded us that you want to continue to act as the watchdog of a european conclave where the necessary decisions are continually postponed or even not taken, just when the need for a strong europe is so urgent and indispensable. in what chapter of history do you want to be, on the side of the interests of the european citizens or on the side of those who have defended the interests of moderately and lukewarmly europeanist elites? i would like to ask you again: do you want to be on the side of those who have made the european project a reality, protecting the privileged domain of a group or an elite, or on the side of those who have given the project the necessary tools, including a budget, to develop its full potential? for us socialists and democrats, europe is built through law and through respect. human rights, of course, but also civil rights, and respect for the community's word. since january, the statements you have made in europe and in your country have raised a number of questions to which we would like you to give some answers. firstly, respect for the european commitment to relocate refugees in europe. you said you were against this resettlement. but how do you redistribute? what if we have, as you said, a common border? this position contradicts the principle of solidarity which you have called for and which applies to all our community policies, including, for example, cohesion policy. so what can you tell us concretely about this issue? secondly, what about your refusal to support the launching of article 7 infringement proceedings against hungary and poland. how do you explain your refusal, your justified criticism of vladimir putin's policies and your support for the far-right axis from salvini to orbán? can you explain your views on this? do you not find that a contradiction? last but not least, what are the measures your government has put in place to address the rise in discrimination against lgbt people? in the report of the european commission against racism and intolerance last march, this commission points to serious shortcomings in the implementation of measures to protect these minorities. our union is a union of tolerance, and you and your country, as you reminded us, are part of it and share its values. i thank you again for your speech and also for the answers you will give to my questions.
the honourable member is right, mr coburn has spoken more than the time allowed, but i have allowed all the group chairmen to speak more. it's not like i can give more time to who i share and less time to who i don't share. the rules are the same for everyone.
i have been flexible for the first round of speeches, as the vote is scheduled for 12.30 p.m., and i would like to speak to all those who have asked to take part in the catch-the-eye, please respect the time allotted to you, otherwise we risk not having some members speak. as this is the last part-session, i would like everyone to leave the chamber satisfied, including prime minister kariņš.
i would like to thank mr kelam for being an exemplary member of parliament for so many years. i've said it publicly, he's always been a role model for me. i have great respect and admiration for him, for the way he fought for the freedom of his country, for democracy and for europe. i thank him for the great contribution he has made to our union and to this parliament.
thank you, gunnar, for your work and for your engagement with this parliament. thank you very much.
ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. it is the last debate with a prime minister as head of government on the future of europe. i think it was very important for all of us as members of the european parliament to be involved in this preparatory phase, in this debate on the future of europe. i shall be taking the results of this work of these debates to the next european council in romania on 9 may, and i take this opportunity to thank all the members who have taken part in these debates, making them vibrant, different from the usual. i think that was a positive initiative by the european parliament. we have shown that parliament is the heart of democracy. thank you again and good work to all and a good campaign and a good easter. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order on rules 226 and 227. the interpretation we are going to vote on today is in fact a full amendment to the rules of procedure. this is the last attempt to have an old proposal adopted by simple majority. this is precisely what is required for interpretation. it is the same proposal that, as an amendment to the rules of procedure, did not reach an absolute majority in this house last january. indeed the proposed text raises new, crucial legal questions, which would remain open, giving rise not only to different interpretations but also to highly discretionary assessments. what are the parameters for defining the substantive, distinctive and genuine character that are required for a group’s political statement regarding the common political orientation? who decides whether these are respected? the president of parliament alone or with the consent of the conference of presidents? by majority, by consensus? again, what are the consequences of an assessment of non—compliance? finally, what are the legal remedies? there are no answers to any of these questions. once again, at the end of the parliamentary term and in a hurry, we witness an attempt to change the rules about group formation, definitely a most sensitive issue. the proposal not only leaves important legal issues open, but above all jeopardises the democratic functioning of our common house. this vote is a real attack on the heart of the concept of democracy and i strongly ask you to join me in rejecting that. say no to this interpretation. say yes to democracy. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to ask the house to vote on our amendments in defence of the 'made in' under rule 59 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure. i would remind you that the introduction of the obligation to indicate the origin of products on the label helps to protect health and the safety of registered trademarks and to prevent and discourage unfair competition. it is true that the agreement reached in the trilogue contains important rules on the conformity of products, but approving the goods package means putting a tombstone on the package sanded in the council since 2013 containing the made in. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this parliament has repeatedly defended the 'made in' and we ask it to do so again.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we are opposed to this request, perhaps mr zullo has not been so present at the trilogues and does not have the perception of the difficulty we have had in reaching an agreement like this after so many years, which will finally allow us to have a market which is monitored and not as it is today, a market in which we have 32% of non-compliant toys and 58% of non-compliant electrical goods. we have worked hard on this text and it has been voted for by mr zullo and the efdd group. it has also had the favourable vote of the italian government in the council and we expect that if mr zullo and the efdd group are so concerned about the made-in rule, they can do so in the text still before the council, by working and asking minister di maio to do what should be done and what we have done in our government. i therefore ask that this proposal be rejected.
mr president, i too was happy to support this agreement because today every euro we invest in innovation, research and development is an investment that will pay off for us here in europe. i am therefore glad that this provisional agreement has been reached, that the amount to be invested in this direction has been increased for the next financial framework, and that the flows in which the money should be invested have been clarified. investing in the environment, in the state of the climate, investing in health technology, developing in this area, these are topics that i think are extremely important, and if europe wants to keep up with other powers that are investing large sums in innovation and research, it is not enough to have national money, but there must be such significant european incentives. so i also very much welcome this agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new horizon europe regulation is without doubt the most ambitious european research and innovation programme ever put into practice. the fact that 35% of funding is allocated to climate-friendly technologies is certainly an important signal: eur 35 billion out of 100 total allocated for the period 2021-2027. i share the mission-based approach, focusing on specific and clearly defined objectives, such as urban decarbonisation meeting the need identified in the current horizon 2020, and focusing on specific thematic objectives. the establishment of a single point of contact, identified by the commission, to bring the most promising high-potential technologies from the laboratory to the market and to help start-ups and the most innovative companies develop their ideas is also important. one negative note: the agreement reached did not formally exclude fossil fuels from research funding, which, on behalf of all future generations, would probably have been a due act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is good news that the 120 billion for horizon europe, which is the proposal of parliament, has been approved, albeit with partial agreement, and i hope that the council of ministers will respect it, because it is really about investing in knowledge, innovation, europe's competitiveness, but also in inclusion. i am very happy about two things in particular. we have ensured that social sciences and humanities are included in all the thematic areas of the pillar on global challenges and industrial competitiveness. it would be very strange if this aspect were not present, along with scientific research and on different subjects. secondly, we have achieved, and this is a great achievement of the culture committee, the inclusion of a real thematic cluster entitled culture, creativity and inclusive society with one and a half billion, of which 45% for research in the cultural and creative sectors and 300 instead for the new cultural heritage cloud, which takes up the challenge of the recent year on cultural heritage. this strengthens the european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new supplementary protection certificate regulation for medicines, which we have just approved, will help new pharmaceutical companies to set up and expand in high-growth areas, generating revenue and new jobs. the current framework was no longer sustainable with european companies facing heavy competition from non-eu producers not subject to similar restrictions and forced to relocate plants by entering into binding agreements with host countries. the new rules will allow manufacturers of generics and biosimilars based in the european union to produce a generic or biosimilar version of a medicinal product still covered by the supplementary certificate, solely for the purpose of exporting to a non-eu market where production has expired or never existed. the whole pharmaceutical industry economy will benefit from this, and it will thus be able to be more present in markets where patent protection rules are often ignored.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen massive waves of migration which have forced italy and the eu in general to take shelter. the establishment of a permanent force, however, which will reach 10,000 in 2027, will, in terms of its composition and composition, lead to a certain and serious depletion of the internal security forces of each member state, which will be channelled as resources to achieve this force. the financial cover provided by the union is, moreover, extremely inadequate to compensate for the economic effort which will be required of the member states. in addition, in some member states, such as italy, it is impossible to restart recruitment in the public sector because of budgetary constraints imposed by the eu. the proposal thus effectively deprives member states of the national resources they need to manage their borders. all this without taking into account that a permanent body thus constituted will perhaps be effective if used along land borders, but the same cannot be said for maritime borders. the risk we run, and italy in particular, is that such a massive presence of men and vessels at sea could instead be seen as a factor of attraction for the boats of illegal immigrants. if, on the one hand, we can see a step forward in the renewal of the mandate of operation sophia and the suspension of the deployment of naval forces, on the other hand, with the approval of this measure, we will be taking a long way back. the executive powers granted to the border and coast guards seem to be a thinly veiled undermining of the national sovereignty of individual states. the drawing, then, is crystal clear if not in words, in deeds. if italy has managed in recent months, according to frontex data, to reduce arrivals from the african coast, reaching a decrease of about 80% compared to 2017, this has certainly not happened thanks to measures taken at eu level, but thanks to the migration policies adopted in my country. you are so convinced that this measure will be so effective, but perhaps the goal is just ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 1 311 people died in 2018 alone, that's the number of people who died in the mediterranean. yet the debate here continues on frontiers and the further strengthening of the policies of rejection. i believe that the european union must necessarily take a different path. first, to declare libyan ports as unsafe. it is true that europe has already said so, but some member states of the european union still consider returns to libya possible, and i am talking about italy. i think we have to decide whether we want to be remembered as the ones who increased the deaths in the mediterranean or as the ones who tried to prevent them. and then you can't send people back to libya because they're being tortured. you can't just give the libyan coast guard search and rescue because it means bringing people back to libya. it is essential to put an end to any agreement on migration between the european union and libya. europe must choose whether it is the closed ports of salvini and toninelli or whether it is a civilized continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the reform of the common european asylum system has been a colossal failure. four years after the refugee emergency, nothing has been done to change the unjust and unfortunately still relevant dublin rules. libya is on fire again, and a new wave of refugees will soon reach europe's shores without anything having changed and without europe being ready to handle reception and asylum requests, just as it was in 2015. the sealing of the external borders then became the only option and the new frontex the main instrument. what europe has so far succeeded in doing is to outsource the problem, to give money to some states to do the dirty work and at the same time try to close as many borders as possible. the reform of frontex was the last and most striking of these measures. a reform adopted hastily by the institutions, in the hope of getting something to flaunt in the election campaign, perhaps to divert attention from the failure of the reform of the common asylum system, which has been wrecked against the rocks of opposition to european solidarity, of which some member states do not even want to hear. we have opposed this reform because we believe that it is an excessive and inappropriate restriction of the sovereignty of the member states in the management of their external borders. the commission is given the possibility, through the agency, to monitor the member state which is deemed unable to manage its own borders, and even to give the neighbouring states the possibility of reintroducing internal border controls if the agency's recommendations are not properly implemented. another example of how the principle of solidarity laid down in the treaties is being put into practice in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with a great sense of responsibility this house has carried forward the reform of the regulation establishing the european border and coast guard. we have overcome internal divisions, we have negotiated, we have agreed on a text that could certainly be more ambitious, but that will certainly help to consolidate one of the four pillars identified by the commission in the european agenda on migration: the management of the external borders. i would remind you, however, that in the same pillar the commission is urging europe to step up its search and rescue activities at sea. the borders must be managed effectively, it is true, but also and above all with respect for fundamental rights. the support for this reform is precisely due to the fact that we have managed to maintain the framework for safeguarding these rights and to preserve the search and rescue activities which remain for us a priority of the common european asylum system. i thank commissioner avramopoulos and i make one final appeal to him at the end of his term of office: we need to rethink the sophia mission and equip it with more tools, so we can talk about and invest more in search and rescue.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the agreement on this important file. i would like once again to praise our rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, and of course the shadow rapporteurs, for their work on this new legislation. the tourism and travel industry plays, as we all know, a key role in the european economy, and not only representing around 10% of the european union’s gdp. lengthy and cumbersome procedures can deter tourists from travelling to europe. this would deprive us of investment and spending and affect in a negative way the european union’s economy. the agreed changes will make it easier for millions of travellers to obtain a visa to come to the european union every year, facilitating tourism, trade and business. making the process easier will not mean a free pass to the european union or more lax security checks. the new rules will actually improve and strengthen our security standards to detect those who pose a threat or have no right to enter the european union. a new mechanism in our visa code will enable us to use the leverage of our visa policy, in cooperation with non-eu countries, when it comes to the return and readmission of irregular migrants. the new rules include procedures that are more flexible for travellers coming to the schengen area. why? according to the current rules, the earliest date one can file an application is three months prior to their trip. the new rules extend this period to six months. the equal treatment of applicants will also be ensured. frequent travellers with a positive visa history can receive a multiple entry visa, with a gradually-increasing validity period from one year to a maximum of five years. this will save time and decrease costs both for applicants and member states. at the same time, the fulfilment of entry conditions by the travellers will be thoroughly and repeatedly verified in all cases. a moderate increase of the schengen visa fee from eur 60 to eur 80 is also suggested in order to secure additional resources for strengthening security. this modest increase will allow member states to maintain adequate levels of consular staff worldwide. this will ensure stronger security screenings as well as the upgrading of id equipment and software without representing an obstacle for the visa applicants. to sum it all up, the new eu visa code will adapt the rules to evolving security concerns, challenges linked to migration and new opportunities offered by technological developments. i hope you will support this compromise reached and i am looking forward, of course, to our debate. but now, at the end of my introductory remarks, i would like to turn to my native language to say some words. κύριε πρόεδρε, αγαπητοί φίλοι, είναι η τελευταία σημερινή μας συνάντηση. εμείς, όπως ξέρετε, ως επιτροπή θα μείνουμε μέχρι το τέλος του οκτωβρίου, αλλά κάποιοι από εσάς δεν θα είναι μαζί μας σε λίγο καιρό από τώρα. θα ήθελα να σας εκφράσω τις θερμές μου ευχαριστίες, γιατί αυτά τα 4,5 χρόνια εργαστήκαμε πολύ, μέσα σε πνεύμα αλληλεγγύης, σε αυτόν τον δημοκρατικό χώρο όπου υπήρξαν θέσεις και αντιθέσεις και διαφορετικές απόψεις. ωστόσο, σε τελευταία ανάλυση, ο κοινός μας τόπος ήταν να δώσουμε πειστικές απαντήσεις σε μεγάλες προκλήσεις και προβλήματα, όπως αυτό της μετανάστευσης και της ασφάλειας. χωρίς τη δική σας βοήθεια δεν θα είχαμε πετύχει τίποτα και, αν σήμερα λέμε ότι αφήνουμε πίσω μας μια κληρονομιά, αυτό οφείλεται σε αυτήν τη συνεργασία. θέλω, λοιπόν, να σας εκφράσω την ευγνωμοσύνη μου και να ευχηθώ σε όσους από εσάς βρεθείτε στο επόμενο κοινοβούλιο, να συνεχίσετε με το ίδιο πάθος και με βαθιά συνείδηση του καθήκοντος το έργο σας, αλλά και σε εσάς που θα βρεθείτε κάπου αλλού, να θυμάστε πάντοτε ότι αυτό το πέρασμά σας από τη ζωή ήταν κάτι χρήσιμο για την πατρίδα σας και για την ευρώπη. θα ήθελα επίσης να εκφράσω τις θερμές μου ευχαριστίες σε αυτούς που βρίσκονται πίσω από τη δημόσια αυτή σκηνή. στους διερμηνείς μας, που καμιά φορά τους κάνουμε τη ζωή δύσκολη. εγώ φρόντιζα τουλάχιστον να μιλάω αργά, ελπίζω να το έχουν εκτιμήσει. από την άλλη μεριά όμως, και τους huissiers, όλους αυτούς τους ωραίους ανθρώπους που καθημερινά μας συνοδεύουν στην αίθουσα και παρακολουθούν από κοντά τη δουλειά μας, προσφέροντάς μας τις όμορφες υπηρεσίες τους, αλλά και τους φωτογράφους, που αποτυπώνουν με το ταλέντο τους και την έμπνευσή τους αυτό που θα αφήσετε όλοι σε ανάμνηση του μεγάλου σας έργου στην αιωνιότητα. εγώ θα ήθελα να σας ευχαριστήσω προσωπικά. έμαθα πολλά από αυτό το πέρασμά μου από το κοινοβούλιο και νομίζω ότι φεύγοντας, όταν έρθει η ώρα να προχωρήσουμε και εμείς, θα μπορούμε να λέμε πολύ απλά ότι ήμασταν και εμείς τότε εκεί, όταν κρινόταν από τη δική μας δουλειά το μέλλον της μεγάλης μας χώρας, της ευρώπης. κινηθήκαμε με βάση αρχές και αξίες και πρέπει να σας πω ότι αυτός εδώ ο χώρος, αυτό το κοινοβούλιο μπορεί να είναι υπερήφανο με όλους τους εκπροσώπους του, γιατί πράγματι αντιπροσωπεύει το βαθύτερο νόημα της δημοκρατίας και των ανώτερων και ευγενών αξιών πάνω στις οποίες χτίστηκε η ευρώπη. σας ευχαριστώ πολύ. (χειροκροτήματα)
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his words and i thank you and all your collaborators and staff. on the subject of today's debate, i welcome the developments in this revision of the visa code to facilitate mobility, such as the possibility of submitting applications up to six months before a planned stay; reduced fare options for young people; facilitating multiple-entry visas for frequent travellers and specific recognition for cultural professionals and athletes. it is regrettable that the opportunity was not taken to address the outdated regulatory restriction which prevents legitimate travellers from staying longer in the schengen area without exceeding the legal thresholds in individual member states. the european parliament has twice shown support for these longer stays and the current 90 days with a 180 day limitation were conceived when the schengen area was smaller.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tourism industry is very important for the economic development of the european union. in 2018, it brought in more than €700 billion to europe, has more than 2 million businesses employing more than 12 million people. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. these figures speak for themselves. the tourism industry is growing and it is important to facilitate those with a legitimate interest in travelling to europe. this reform is the right step in this direction, simplifying the regulatory framework, reducing the time needed and adapting the visa procedures to new technologies. i am confident that this reform will also serve to improve cooperation with third countries to facilitate the return of their own citizens who are in europe illegally. visa policy is an important lever at the disposal of the union and must be used to encourage third countries to cooperate on return.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a moment to say a few words on behalf of the committee on which i have worked, as my last speech to the libe committee in this parliament. we have done a lot in this parliament to help create a fair and supportive common european asylum system. we have done teamwork, smoothing out wherever possible our differences and trying to work on investing in our values. i will continue to do so, hoping for a just society, and i hope that the vote of the european people will enable me to continue along this path. we have a long way to go. after four years of intensive negotiations, we can now say with some pride that the european union has a common visa policy. and so i want to thank the committee i served on, the libe committee. a policy which is an integral part of the creation of an area without internal frontiers and which remains an essential instrument for facilitating travel, whether for economic or leisure reasons. a policy that creates growth and must be consistent with other union policies, such as those relating to external relations, trade, education, culture and tourism. we have managed to simplify procedures, contain costs and identify precisely which member state is competent to examine an application, particularly when the applicant intends to visit several member states. i would like to thank the commission for the work it has done in this area. we have provided for the possibility for applicants to submit application forms online and to be able to sign them electronically. and above all, we have safeguarded the right of appeal for applicants whose visas have been refused. four years of lengthy negotiations have enabled this reform to remain within a legal framework which guarantees full respect for fundamental rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this very important debate. the new regulation will modernise the common visa policy so that security is preserved while legitimate travel is facilitated. it will ensure equal treatment for all visa applicants and promote travel to the european union for tourism and business purposes. in that way it will contribute to the european union’s economy and growth, people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges. but beyond that, the new rules will enhance our ability to detect threats and will provide us with a stronger framework for cooperation with non-european union countries when it comes to the return and readmission of irregular immigrants. i strongly hope you will support the compromise reached on the new european union visa code in the vote. i can assure you that, from our side, the commission will play its role in the implementation of these new provisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking because i find it incredible that not a word is said in this house about what is happening in libya, not so much about the war because libya is a country at war, but about what is happening to the approximately 200 000 refugees who are being left by europe to die in concentration camps, who are being left by europe to disappear under the bombs of an ongoing war. we are all calling on the heads of state and government to reopen the routes for ngos and to save these lives. we call on our heads of state and government to bring europe and to free that country from the refugees, women and children and men who are under a war. that is what this parliament must do, that is our role!
the regulation we are supporting fills a serious gap by establishing for the first time in europe, after much resistance, after more than ten years of debate, common limits and standards on co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles, which account for 6% of the total emissions in the union, and which are destined to increase. in addition to ambitious but achievable co2 reduction targets, we have introduced a road compliance test to obtain real driving emissions and fuel consumption data. these real data are often very far from those certified in the laboratory. this data is necessary to avoid other scandals like the diesel gate. these data may also be used by third parties for independent verification testing. the commission is also asked to provide a methodology for assessing the emissions of heavy-duty vehicles throughout their life cycle, from design to scrapping. the regulation also provides for a mechanism to incentivise the uptake of electric and low-emission trucks, with the aim of ensuring a mandatory minimum share of 2% of these vehicles for manufacturers from 2025. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for electric vehicles and the impact of the new rules on the market for electric vehicles. finally, in the transition to decarbonisation of the transport sector, which is still 94% dependent on oil, the role of natural gas must be considered, but above all it is essential that the european commission establishes a fund for the retraining and support of workers in the sector, in order to make the transition socially and environmentally sustainable. this regulation is a further step in the process of moving europe towards a new model of development based on the alliance between industry and the environment.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility sector plays a fundamental role in the economy and society of the union of the individual member states, yet this house seems to constantly forget this aspect and does not listen to the demands of european entrepreneurs and workers. the measures contained in this proposal are at best anachronistic and at worst unrealistic. the text talks about ensuring a smooth transition to zero-emission mobility to encourage the development of new technologies, but without actually doing an impact assessment of the proposed measures. the measure is geared towards a single electrical solution and clearly does not take into account all the possible alternatives currently available on the market. the use of a mix of technologies and longer lead times had to be planned from the outset to really help operators and companies. the development of zero-emission technologies is even less advanced in the heavy-duty vehicle market than in the passenger car sector, especially for long-haul delivery trucks. the automotive sector will be damaged, affecting the competitiveness of europe and the various member states. europe will be dependent on countries rich in raw materials for the manufacture of batteries, such as china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. paradoxically, as the press reports, new mobile electric charging stations have already been used, but powered by diesel generators. in addition, such a measure would have a negative impact on employment in the automotive supply chain. this, together with the economic slowdown in the sector, could lead to a loss of 75 000 to 210 000 jobs in the supply chain in germany alone by 2030. we have a responsibility to think carefully about proposals like this, which, as they stand, are simply incomprehensible and will lead to results contrary to the objectives set.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, on thursday 18 april 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/33/ec on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2017) 0653-c8-0393/2017-2017/0291 (cod)) (a8-0321/2018).
before i give the floor to the next speaker, since this is the last time, at least for this term, that i have the honour and the pleasure of presiding over this plenary, let me thank all of you, even though there are very few of us here today, for the great opportunity you gave me a year and a half ago to be vice-president of this house. i have tried to honour it with all my commitment, with all my participation and above all with all my will to live up to the commitments i wrote to you when i put forward my candidacy and when i tried to re-establish pluralism within the bureau. so i thank each of you from the bottom of my heart and of course i wish all those who will be standing in the next european elections to continue working together for a better europe of which all citizens can be proud. thank you very much.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote on the european defence fund comes at the end of a long and complicated process, for which i must thank mr krasnodębski. i do not want to repeat the steps that led to this, i was one of the shadow rapporteurs who followed this dossier closely, but i would ask that the european parliament continue to monitor, in close contact with the commission and the eda, the development of the edf. the vote tomorrow is not the end but the beginning of a new industrial phase for european security and defence, and parliament must continue to be an actor and not a spectator. i say this with full knowledge of the facts, having been in favour of delegated acts rather than implementing acts. the time we have taken to reach this final agreement and some of the amendments we passed in the plenary in december bear witness to this. parliament must continue to make its voice heard in favour of a development and a truly european vision of the edf, which allows at least three states and three companies to participate in a call, with a competitive spirit and aimed at improving research, development and technologies. we want open and participatory calls without direct allocations, as this house voted in december. as a group we have expressed some doubts about certain criteria, but we hope that they will be applied without any punitive intent towards the participants. i would like to remind you once again, however, what we do not want the edf to become. we do not want an instrument which finances bilateral cooperation with european funds without any real european added value. we do not want the edf to limit or make it difficult to cooperate with non-eu industrial players, especially when they are necessary and strategic for our production, research and development capabilities. we do not want to exclude companies based on european soil with european know-how and integrated into production chains, even if they are not owned by eu countries. in line with what has already been voted in this parliament, we do not want the edf to finance weapons of mass destruction or deadly weapons without human control whether they be land, air or sea; we do not want the door to any possible european army to be opened under the guise of industrial cooperation, which is in itself a positive thing, also because it is not in the edf's objectives, nor in line with the treaties, and we stress the need to respect the criteria of the common position on exports. let's frame the edf for what it is: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and i would like to thank the commission for its support for the european union's efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the middle east.
member of the commission. – mr president, tonight’s debate on the investeu programme in the last plenary session is emblematic of the continued backing this house has given to the commission’s initiatives in support of investment throughout its mandate. on behalf of the commission, let me thank you for your support. the partial agreement you have reached with the council on investeu, in a record time, will allow for preparatory work to proceed quickly. this will ensure a smooth and timely implementation on day one of the next multiannual financial framework (mff), allowing for a seamless continuation of investment support. investeu will simplify our existing set of financial instruments and, under a single guarantee, rule book and brand, cater for sectors that are experiencing investment gaps and sub-optimal investments situations. digitisation, social housing, research, energy efficiency and urban transport are just some of the key areas that today don’t find adequate financing on the market. the investeu guarantee will unlock such financing and crowd-in private money for the public good. to deliver its objectives, the fund will be supported by investeu’s advisory hub that this house wants to strengthen. the commission welcomes this emphasis. the commission also highly values the fact that the co-legislators have upheld its proposal for an opening of access to the eu budgetary guarantee. while the european investment bank’s strategic role is now enshrined in the regulation and its expertise is better recognised, other actors such as international financial institutions like the ebrd or the council of europe bank, but also national promotional banks and institutions, will have the opportunity to become implementing partners. this will ensure we are using all available expertise in a complementary manner, improving their geographical outreach and taking into account local needs. the preparation of the investeu programme and its implementation will bring those actors together, require them to set up the system, but also give them the opportunity to take ownership and co-shape the union investment programme. this will result in a community of strong, long-term investors supporting the eu’s policy objectives. during the negotiations, the parliament has had a key role in maintaining the focus of this instrument on policy steer, in strengthening the accountability and transparency provisions, and in raising ambitions for the climate targets. the commission believes that all of these points improve investeu. let me conclude by expressing our appreciation for the tremendous effort of the rapporteurs, their shadows and all associated committees in reaching a position within a very ambitious timeline, with a view to enabling an agreement before the european elections. i would also like to take this opportunity to extend this appreciation to the romanian presidency for their dedication and effort.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore handing over to the europeans the paradigm of europe that is already changing. the new europe has set sail, moving away from the shore of austerity and re-orienting its course. the new port is the figure of work of these years. it is the people's europe that grows on the horizon of sustainability and social inclusion. investeu is support for innovative enterprises and access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises. investeu is support for the circular economy, environmental infrastructure. investeu is finally a school, a university, a training for new skills. investeu is health, hospitals, medical care. investeu is innovation in support of the social economy for the promotion of the most vulnerable. investeu is finally new public housing, the dividend, the quality of life of the territories and the well-being of the people, the fight against poverty without districts.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure to present to this house the result of long and intensive work and negotiations, which have, however, produced positive results. i would like to thank my fellow rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, all the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have helped to adopt this text, which continues a process which began five years ago. the financial crisis, the austerity policies had caused an unprecedented fall in public and private investment across the european union and one of our priorities was to revive it. more investment as a condition for growth and employment. thanks to a flexible interpretation of the stability pact and then to new initiatives such as the european fund for strategic investments, we have started a correction of the direction of economic policy, but new important investment gaps have opened up in the areas related to innovation, tangible, intangible and social infrastructure and climate change. these are the key challenges we intend to tackle with the investeu programme. in addition to further strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation and sustainable infrastructure, this programme will address the huge gap in social infrastructure, ensuring the real feasibility of projects in the fields of education, health and social housing. the agreement we reached with the council makes a number of improvements to the commission's text. first, we have established that the cost of the guarantee to the promoters of the investment will be exclusively linked to the characteristics and risk profile of the underlying transactions and that more favourable conditions can be applied to promote the construction of investment platforms, to encourage investment in areas where the investment gap is higher or to encourage intervention in those sectors where the need for investment is more pronounced. secondly, while recognising a special partnership, a central role for the european investment bank, we have emphasised the important role of national promotional banks in financing investment projects. national promotional banks will be able to have direct access to the european guarantee, which will allow greater flexibility and therefore greater possibilities for financing projects, with positive effects on the level of investment and the creation of new jobs. finally, we have established that member states will not only have the possibility of channelling part of their allocated resources under the cohesion policy funds into investeu in the national sector, but they will also be able to contribute additional resources which will, in principle, be considered as one-off contributions and therefore not calculated in the structural deficit account under the stability pact. the text we are voting on tomorrow is therefore a balanced text overall, including the important part which requires at least 55% of the investment under the sustainable infrastructure window which contributes to achieving the objectives of the paris climate and environment agreements. of course, a framework of certainty of resources is essential and so our commitment in the next legislature will be to negotiate a multiannual financial framework that is commensurate with this project, the ambitions of investeu but also the overall need for a strong european budget. we know that investeu will be an important, necessary but not sufficient part of what will be our political priority in the next legislature: implement an extraordinary investment programme to support the conversion, the ecological conversion of the economy, social sustainability, the revival of growth, innovation and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the advent of new technologies is changing all the world's scenarios, including mobility. we must seize the challenge and the benefits if europe is to be a world leader in this field. the declarations and the fulfilments that have to be made each time a ship calls at a port are many and it is therefore necessary to streamline this formality and it is essential to introduce a single interface for those declarations. there is currently a complete lack of harmonisation between member states, which causes heavy administrative burdens for operators. this single interface will finally reduce these burdens, improving interoperability and interconnection between the different systems and encouraging maximum efficiency in the use of data. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner and her staff for their excellent work, to thank my colleagues and, since we are the europe of the peoples, to also offer a greeting in slovenian, nasvidenje in hvala, and a greeting in friulian, which is also a greeting in friulian, my language, and thanks to dut con un mandi.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, shipping companies are currently subject to too many requirements and have to make different declarations each time a ship calls at a port. the main problem is the lack of harmonisation of reporting requirements across sectors and across countries, which unfortunately entails considerable additional costs for industry. the commission estimates that shipping personnel currently spend a total of some 4.6 million hours per year on reporting activities, which is too much. a single reporting interface for ships will significantly reduce these administrative burdens, further facilitating trade, digitalisation and modernising maritime mobility. this regulation creates the conditions for the application of the one-off principle so that ships can make one declaration in one port and reuse that information for subsequent calls in ports of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in this parliament and i am pleased to be addressing this issue which is at the interface with environmental sustainability, on which i have worked so hard over the years. the paris agreement represents a formidable investment opportunity that we cannot afford to waste. the green economy is the only possible strategy for creating millions of jobs. the regulation will ensure that the financial system operates in this direction by strengthening and improving the communication of information that financial product issuers and financial advisers must provide to final investors. financial market participants and financial advisors will have an obligation to integrate environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities into their processes as part of their duty to act in the best interests of clients. the new rules, together with the carbon neutrality agenda and the eu sustainable development agenda, link finance to the needs of the real economy, helping to achieve the 2012 un sustainable development goals and the targets set by the paris agreement. hello, everyone, and see you in july.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, cameroon is a country facing numerous and serious challenges at the same time: the threat of boko haram in the north, border problems with the neighbouring central african republic in the east and armed separatist rebellions in the english-speaking regions of the north-west and south-west, and for this it has our full solidarity. however, it is more important than ever to emphasize forcefully that these threats cannot be met by disproportionate use of force and by the severe and systematic curtailment of fundamental rights. we condemn in particular the acts of torture, enforced disappearances and extrajudicial executions carried out by the security services. this is particularly serious when public force is used to suppress legitimate dissent and perpetuate the stay in power of a president who has been in office since 1982. the excessive use of force against protesters, the imprisonment of political opponents, the closure of the internet and attacks on journalists can never and in no way be justified as a means of reacting to the important threats to which cameroon is subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cameroon is plunging into violence. paul biya's 30-year regime is crumbling, the power-hungry are reacting by trampling on human rights. the government organizes and is accused of electoral fraud to stay in power and arrests opposition leaders, inventing crimes to charge them with. in addition, the two english-speaking provinces are at war: the north of the country is infected by boko haram, while the east is being raided by central african militias. in these theaters the government army fights against ferocious militias and secessionist forces of ambazonia. we denounce the militias, but we try to understand the root causes of the cameroonian disaster: they are called governmental immobility, gerontocracy, misgovernment, blatant electoral fraud, nepotism and tribalism. this is the origin of the crisis in the country and the mass migration of cameroonian youth. biya must solve the crisis instead of continuing to organize elections and electoral fraud and arrest honest leaders. i would like to thank the high representative for her work at a difficult time, when the selfishness of the member states is manifested by the return of the sovereignists and nationalists. i also thank my staff, the entire interpreting team, the ushers and the drivers. each of them has given me something, and if the italian voters want it, i will come back here to continue my work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in cameroon the tension is reaching unsustainable levels, almost to the point of making us fear the risk of civil war. in january, some 200 people, including opposition leader maurice kamto, were arbitrarily arrested for peacefully protesting against the election of paul biya, who has been in power since 1982, as yet another fraud. but the government didn't stop there, it started to hunt down journalists and independent media as well, spreading a climate of terror throughout the country. the harsh political repression is also accompanied by bloody clashes in the north-western and south-western regions between the army and armed separatist groups, reminiscent of a postcolonial period that may never have truly ended. the civilians, students especially, are the ones who suffer, as usual, since the target of this violence are often schools and hospitals, destroyed in protest against the government. i therefore call on the cameroonian government to release all political prisoners immediately and to organise as soon as possible an inclusive political dialogue for a peaceful and lasting solution to the crisis in the anglophone regions. i would like to thank the high representative, whom i greet, and ask him to exert greater diplomatic pressure and to make a real commitment to the defence of human rights. we must not let the cotonou agreement become, as it so often does, just paper and ink.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative mogherini, i would first of all like to say that i believe this is the last item on the agenda for the whole legislature, so i thank all the colleagues here for the work we have done over the years on the subject of human rights, reminding them how important it is to always put them at the centre of trade negotiations with the rest of the world. and we end with brunei, which i think is one of the most striking cases. a sultanate where the sultan can have five wives and can call escorts, according to what we learn from the newspapers, but it is provided for the death penalty by stoning for adultery or it is provided for the amputation of the hands in case of stealing. i am glad that we have suspended negotiations with this country, whose violations are obvious, and we hope that we will not resume negotiations until human rights are respected. that said, we hope that in the next legislature the issue of human rights can be even more incisive and that we can achieve even better results than those achieved in this legislature.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a shocking change of personality: hassanal bolkiah, the sultan of brunei, the richest man in the world for several years, often in the news for his shocking excesses, including a fabled harem, is the same man who in 2013 announced his intention to introduce a new penal code based on sharia law in his country. the latest provisions entered into force on 3 april. since then, homosexual acts, adultery and abortion have been punished by stoning, insults against muhammad by death, and theft by amputation of hands and feet. the code applies to muslims and non-muslims, including foreigners, and above all it applies to minors. it is well known that certain things only apply to subjects, but if incidentally this code were to be applied without disparity of treatment, i really believe that most of the royal family, including the sultan himself, should be executed. ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century there is no room for such laws. i take advantage of this last speech, in which i conclude this parliamentary term as i began it, that is, by fighting and contributing to the strengthening of human rights, to thank each of you for the work we have shared, for the path and the strength with which we have defended those values which can and must make europe great in the world, and i hope very much to continue working with you, with those who will be there in the next mandate, and i hope that i will of course be there too, and with those who may return to deal with other matters, to continue to say out loud that our action in terms of external relations must always be consistent with our values and that we can truly be the beacon of rights and the defence of prerogatives and above all the rights of the weakest, which we have always aspired to be. thank you very much and good luck to all of you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief, i want to say that today is world unesco sites day, which i would like us to dedicate, of course, to notre dame cathedral and to all the wealth and cultural heritage of europe. i would like to remind you that, thanks to parliament, we have had a dedicated year which has involved over 30 million citizens in a matter which is both identity and universal, but i would also like to remind you that we now have a great legacy as a parliament, because we have put funds for cultural heritage into all european programmes, we have an agenda for european culture and we have a dedicated action plan. i think that, by leaving this parliament after ten years, and i thank all the members for this, i think we can be proud of having made and given a breakthrough to the cultural and educational policy of this parliament. i thank all my colleagues, of course you, mr president, but also the good relationship we have had with the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted strongly against this resolution because i believe that the european union must radically change course, and build a unified process on the defence of people, on the defence of life, not on the defence of frontiers, as we are once again doing with this resolution. i believe that the european union is in danger of being shipwrecked in the mediterranean, where every day we count lives endangered, where every day we count deaths. i believe that the european union must finance people, combat poverty, and increase a european and progressive taxation system. i believe that pursuing the construction of a european army means taking resources away from the struggle and inequalities and, once again, founding the european union on the frontier and not on the host.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your understanding. i voted against the metsola resolution because i believe that the european union needs to save and not continue to reject, it needs to stop dealing with libya, a land of war, torture and rape. i believe, in particular, that my country must stop its policy of persecuting and criminalising ngos, which is being furthered by the government which is about to vote on a special directive against the mediterranean ship. i think one of the things i'm most proud of is that i spent a few days at open arms, a non-profit that saves lives. finally, this is my last speech to the plenary, and i want to thank you all, because in these five years i have learned so much. i hope that i have done my duty, to represent the last, to represent the last and give them political strength so that the anthem of joy can be heard by all and for all alike.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of this parliament has made it clear that there are two conceptions of europe. the first is that of the bureaucrats, whose foundations are in the euro, whose raison d'être is the protection of the elites and whose ultimate aim is the creation of a europe without borders, without identity, made up of low-paid workers, exploited, meek, avid consumers, subjects of the financial market and its sick logic. the second, our own, is based on the glorious history of this continent, which has its raison d'être in protecting our peoples and whose ultimate aim is the construction of a europe which protects identities and democracy. president sassoli himself is the expression of the alchemy between the christian democrats and the socialists, the alchemy which has been the scourge of italy for so many years, the logic which has been the scourge of our country for so many years, the scourge of our artisans, our farmers and our families. i say this to the house, but especially to those listening outside this building. you will not stop our revolution with palace agreements. we, this europe, will change it and the redemption of the peoples will come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs von der leyen, we would like to point out that we will vote our confidence in you, but that our confidence will never be in the dark, it will never be taken for granted for a minute. on the contrary, our support will be a weapon for us to use as a prong to his political action. we have heard you speak of a fair and just europe, of protecting the environment and of women and workers. we heard you talk about minimum hourly wages and the obligation to save human lives. the european union must take responsibility for this and other issues, and it can no longer, for example, blame the epochal phenomenon of immigration on one country alone. the european union must return to being what it was in the plans of its founders, a beacon of peace, development and growth for all european countries. it wasn't for everyone. in italy youth unemployment is high and it is difficult for a young person to start a family. so, mrs von der leyen, we want the european union to finally guarantee everyone, farmers, fishermen, entrepreneurs, workers, young people and all european citizens, the same opportunities for development, and that is why we will also be calling for a serious and concrete commitment to put an end to the scandal of tax havens, for a harmonization of tax policies on employment and for very strict common anti-mafia legislation. if the many good intentions of your speech come true, you can count on our loyal support, but if they turn out to be mere words, if europe remains the one that has penalized certain areas such as southern italy, you will find in the delegation of the five star movement the most determined and ferocious opposition that can be imagined.
in writing. on 1 july, finland took over the presidency of the council of the eu from romania. the initial identification of priorities was coordinated with the romanian programme, which gives hope for the continuity of community policy in this difficult period for europe. perhaps finland will succeed in this task, which i hope it will. finland has inherited from its predecessors a number of current unresolved issues, such as brexit or the need to continue efforts to make the eu more competitive internationally and to further boost the social situation. but i think what is missing is a reminder of the values that have been the basis of european unity. i am referring to the christian values that the founding fathers spoke of and that the union today has forgotten, to its own detriment. to achieve a fairer eu, where all citizens can enjoy the benefits of economic and social development, it is therefore important to respect the right world and to return to the roots of europe, based on the vision of robert schuman or alcide de gasperi. we must therefore return to the principles that are at the root of european identity. it is also necessary to ensure the safety of eu citizens in order to improve migration policy, including control of the eu's external borders. but it is also important to try to reduce inequalities between eu countries. this is particularly the case for the inhabitants of the new member states, such as lithuania.
in writing. we welcome the finnish presidency's programme, with its focus on the important issues of climate change, human rights and strengthening the rule of law. the aim of the forthcoming council presidency to make europe more social and sustainable has long been a key demand of the european greens.
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on humanitarian aid in the mediterranean (2019/2718 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i will continue on from what the prime minister mentioned in his speech this morning. we need a long-term, comprehensive and humane solution to manage migration. even though the generally known problems remain, as the debate today will certainly show, we should also note that, in broad terms, the situation of migration flows in the mediterranean sea has improved in recent years. according to frontex data for 2018, approximately 137 000 irregular migrants were registered, having crossed the mediterranean via one of the three main routes. this year, so far, we are at 36 000 arrivals. should this trend continue, we would see the number of detected arrivals reduced by approximately 50% in 2019. equally important, while of course it is still too high, the number of deaths at sea has decreased. on the central mediterranean route alone, the decrease is by more than 50%. in 2019, 343 persons are known to have lost their lives while attempting to cross the sea via this route. any death at sea is one too many, but there is progress. unhcr estimates that in 2018, the libyan coast guard rescued or intercepted nearly 15 000 migrants at sea. even with the deteriorating security situation in libya this year, the coast guard has continued functioning, rescuing nearly 3 000 persons. these numbers also reflect the important contribution of the eu’s action to reduce fatalities at sea. in particular, in libya, assistance has been of paramount importance. eur 91.3 million were granted to support both the libyan coast guard and the development of libya’s own maritime rescue coordination centre. further, operation sophia has provided training for a total of 355 coast guard personnel so far and the european asylum support office (easo) has provided training on access to the asylum procedure. these are very concrete steps forward. there is no denying that the humanitarian situation surrounding the search—and—rescue events on the central mediterranean route is still not satisfactory. also, stand-offs between member states continue as a result of ngo vessels picking up migrants at sea. let me point out that against the overall background, the number of migrants involved in these incidents is quite modest. in 2019, less than 10% of migrants who arrived in italy had been rescued by ngos active on the central mediterranean route. the vast majority of migrants arrived directly in lampedusa and sicily or they were rescued by vessels of the italian authorities. however, in recent weeks, there have been more incidents due to the peak in departures at this time of the year. one example is the sea-watch 3. in its case, solutions have been found after one or two weeks or on an ad hoc basis. the romanian presidency has worked on temporary arrangements which would make it possible to manage this type of situation in a more structured manner. in 2019, it presented a report with a series of non-binding elements on temporary arrangements for this embarkation. our presidency will continue work on temporary arrangements. an informal meeting of ministers of the interior will take place on thursday and the situation in the mediterranean will be highlighted there. our minister of the interior has also invited all her ministerial colleagues to an informal dinner ahead of this meeting to discuss this immediate situation in the mediterranean. they are temporary in nature until a permanent agreement is found as part of a comprehensive and humane asylum—policy reform. they are open to participation by all member states on a voluntary basis and provide for a coordination role for the commission, with support from relevant agencies. this moves towards more balanced responsibility. solidarity between the member states is key. the finnish presidency will follow up on this work. the finnish presidency will work towards crisis—resilient arrangements. while these arrangements provide some guidance on how to deal with migrants rescued at sea, they do not pronounce on the location where there is embarkment. human rights—based asylum and migration policies are rooted in international treaties and conventions, cooperation between public authorities and effective control of the eu’s external borders, as well as appropriate and swift asylum procedures that are of a high standard in terms of legal protection. this is by and large a decision for national authorities in application of the relevant provisions under international law. international law obliges all coastal states – in our case, all coastal states around the mediterranean sea – to establish search—and—rescue services around their coast. the eu provides support to member states in the management of their external borders, notably through frontex operations. search—and—rescue is not as such the core mandate of these operations, but it is the task they perform in accordance with international law. the finnish presidency will certainly look into ways to unlock the situation. nobody benefits from this prolonged uncertainty. we need a balanced, comprehensive and humane approach here. firstly, we need to help the front-liners but, at the same time, we need to understand the challenge as a whole in the secondary movement and integration of migrants, as well as in return policy. the european union, with its wide range of tools and strong international role, is clearly better equipped to address migration than a single member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am here on behalf of commissioner dimitris avramopoulos. there is no doubt that what is happening in the mediterranean is a cause for high concern. but at the same time, official figures show that flows to the eu have further diminished compared to last year. my dear colleague, the finnish minister, has already shown some of these figures. but there is no doubt that we still face a critical situation where too many people embark on dangerous journeys across the sea, risking their lives, in the hope of reaching the eu for protection or better life prospects. this is why the commission has repeatedly recalled that the eu and its member states are bound by the duty to render assistance to persons or vessels in distress at sea, which is an obligation under international law – and, may i also add, our moral duty. for their part, ngos active in the mediterranean have played an important role in saving lives at sea. in serving this common objective of saving lives, all players should follow the instructions received from the national authority coordinating search and rescue operations. allow me to say that our four eu operations at sea have helped save nearly 730 000 people at sea since 2015, though we regret that the agreement found by member states for the continuation of operation sophia is far from optimal. when it comes to the question of criminalisation of migrant smuggling, we need to be able to distinguish. because one thing is actual migrant smuggling, a deliberate profit-making criminal act, and another is providing assistance to people in need. the bottom line here – and i want to underline this – is that no form of genuine assistance to migrants should be criminalised under eu law. however, the essence is that a system whereby people must resort to smugglers cannot be part of a sustainable approach to migration or asylum. the european union and its member states must remain resolute to keep on fighting against migrant smugglers and traffickers and not to play into their deadly business model. the most recent atrocious killing of migrants at the tajoura detention centre is a strong reminder of the need to continue to pursue the eu’s efforts to protect the most vulnerable and to put an end to the libyan arbitrary detention system. the european union stands ready to support the libyan authorities to find safe and dignified alternatives for all refugees and other migrants in detention centres close to the conflict area. and let us not forget our overall assistance to libya, which goes beyond eur 365 million this year. thanks to our funding and partnership with iom and unhcr, since 2017 more than 40 000 migrants stranded in libya have been assisted to voluntarily return to their countries of origin while 4 000 refugees have been already evacuated from libya to niger or directly to europe in view of their resettlement. in early july, a further eur 13 million was granted to unhcr to reinforce evacuation operations. for these evacuations towards niger to continue, member states must speed up resettlements and pledge more resettlement places for persons in libya or for evacuees in niger. despite all these efforts to intervene upstream on the migratory route, we cannot avoid that under certain circumstances, disembarkations take place in europe. we must be ready to address this situations and, as my dear colleague the finnish minister already said, the most fundamental thing is solidarity. while search and rescue remains a national competence, exercised on the basis of international law, the commission has played a coordinating role to ensure that, when disembarkation takes place in europe, solidarity is implemented. however, ad hoc solutions cannot be sustainable. we need to put in place predictable temporary arrangements following disembarkation based on a practical and voluntary approach, supported by the eu operationally and financially. they will serve as a bridge until the swift completion of the legislative reform of the common european asylum system, which remains a priority for all of us. i welcome the fact that on monday, ministers of foreign affairs discussed the situation in the mediterranean. this discussion will be taken forward by the ministers of external affairs later today, as my dear colleague finnish minister already emphasised. commissioner avramopoulos is on his way to helsinki to discuss with them the way forward to put in place temporary arrangements following disembarkation, built on shared responsibility as part of a broader discussion on the future of the eu asylum and migration policy. the commission stands ready to continue to provide all the political, technical and financial support that member states need to address the situation in the mediterranean. and let us not forget the overarching need to deal with the root causes of migration in parallel with our efforts to help save lives. africa is a huge challenge – not only for europe, but also the world. the juncker commission has done a lot in this direction. first, through the eu trust fund. second, with the external investment plan that has leveraged eur 37 billion of investments. and third, with the eu-africa alliance, through which we aim to create 10 million jobs in africa in the next five years. of course, we have to continue. this is the only way to deal with the root causes. we have to create new jobs in africa, but at the same time, we have to continue our moral duty to save lives.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this feels a little bit like groundhog day. we’re debating the same issue, in the same way, just on a different day. we discussed it in june last year after the aquarius, we discussed it in january of this year after sea—watch and sea—eye, and today we are discussing it again. on both previous occasions we were told, as we are today, no more ad hoc solutions. and cynically, in the case of sea—watch, the member states kept their word. there was no ad hoc solution – there was no solution at all. and that is a sad reality for an eu that is based on fundamental values and the principle of solidarity. i agree with the commissioner: saving lives is not only a legal obligation but a moral one, too. but at the same time we have to realise that the current way in which we are working in the mediterranean, despite all good intentions, is not only helping to save lives but, at the same time, it unfortunately helps the smugglers who put those lives at risk in the first place. this is something we can no longer allow. there is no silver bullet or single solution to all this. we need a holistic approach – an approach that focuses on better protecting our external borders, that focuses on returning migrants who came illegally to europe and have no right to stay and an approach that focuses on making agreements with third countries of transit and of origin to help us fight those smuggling networks and to help us prevent migrants from entering in overstuffed and unseaworthy vehicles. such an approach is the only approach in the long term that can actually save lives.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we have in fact been talking about this same challenge for many years without the european union as a whole having managed to find the way forward and what we are discussing today is the result of a lack of a common position. the solutions that have been presented so far are not working, and today we are no longer talking about a challenge because this is an emergency: the humanitarian emergency. today more than ever, it is time for political decisions to be taken to address this emergency that is leading to more lives being lost in the mediterranean, and that continues to place more burden on the most exposed countries. and i ask the finnish presidency, but also the european commission, to give priority to this situation. an absolute priority based on four key priorities: first, to stop more lives being lost and to see that rescue operations are sustained; second, however, to really combat trafficking in human beings; third, to provide a concrete solution to the excessive pressure being placed on those countries most exposed, particularly in the mediterranean; and fourth, to have safe and legal routes for those in need of international protection. now we have heard many times that member states say they agree that the common asylum system should be reformed, but, in reality, we have never seen this discourse concretised. and instead we have seen that countries that are not exposed to these pressures are hindering any progress. we will not accept that this challenge is not addressed by the european union as a whole. we need real reform, including reflection on changing systems where the country that immigrants first enter, not only has to take responsibility for receiving those who are entitled to asylum, but also has to take responsibility for returning those who are not entitled to international protection. after all, where is the solidarity that the european union so much speaks of? since the summer of last year, we have seen an ad hoc relocation system, to which you referred, of a small group of member states agreeing on practical solutions. the irony is that the majority of the participating countries are the countries that feel the most pressure, and that's not enough. as a law negotiator who will be managing a fund of over eur 10 billion in the area of immigration, i will continue to insist on solidarity, relocation and redistribution systems, because that is what it is. . of . of (the president withdrew the floor to speakers)
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the council and the commission for their very clear commitment to finding sustainable solutions because sometimes i feel a little bit like i am in the twilight zone. there used to be a time where it was considered the morally right thing to do to save people from drowning and to provide shelter to the vulnerable and to refugees. that’s even a christian duty. i’m not christian, but i was taught that this is the right thing to do. but now we are actually talking about criminalising saving people. i actually think it’s a criminal act to let somebody drown. those who are in favour of criminalising it say, ‘these ngos who are saving people in the mediterranean are creating a pull factor’. well, sorry, what they want is a deterrent. they think that if those boats cannot come here, that’s a deterrent. well, if 35 000 dead bodies on the bottom of the mediterranean is not a deterrent, then what is? we are talking about small vessels bringing in 40-50 people. i think the union can handle that. i think that this is not a responsibility that we should put on the shoulders of ngos or commercial vessels, which are also burdened with this. this is a public responsibility. it is also a collective responsibility for all the eu member states. it is unacceptable that our member states still to this day refuse to take their share of the responsibility. we need a sustainable arrangement, not a temporary arrangement. we also call on the council to finally adopt the asylum package and then, finally, we also need to get real and stop fighting symptoms. we need migration. migration exists, it has existed since the beginning of time, we should manage it, we should control it, and we should create legal and safe pathways for legal labour migration to europe. (applause)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am a member of this house for the second time and i can see that since 2015, when the wave of migration began, there has been no solution to this problem, and we are no closer to a better situation. on the contrary, you are permanently sending the wrong signals and thus doing the traffickers' business. and please don't talk about sea rescue. when a person like mrs carola rackete - however her name is spelled - takes in people 20 kilometres from the libyan coast, brings them hundreds of kilometres to italy, breaks one law after another there, illegally enters italian territorial waters, endangers the lives of italian officials by pushing their ship away, this is not a rescue operation, but a political action with a series of legal offences which must be assessed accordingly here. this is not an icon, this is not a saint, this is a lawbreaker. i think that is something that needs to be said very clearly. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you a question: what is the line between the rescue at sea of lives that are really at risk and the behaviour of those who transport people from one side of the mediterranean to the other, making a mockery of the law? i'll tell you what. the first is a lawful, generous, obviously spontaneous and harmless act. the second is a politically planned, deliberately repeated act which endangers the safety of migrants and is therefore also a criminal offence. i do not support it, neither does the ecr or the brothers of italy, but the law, international law, to which you often appeal, often opportunistically. we are now allowing captains of industry without any popular mandate to arrogate to themselves the right to trample both physically and metaphorically on the dignity of our nations, the peace of our nations. we are abandoning the rule of law, which is what we were talking about yesterday. so let us be brave, but let us also have the means to stop illegal departures, to dismantle the taxi ships and save more lives in the mediterranean sea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in this house the statement that 'at sea there is an obligation to save lives' was followed by a huge applause from almost the whole of parliament. that applause - emphatic - goes only to italy, which has saved thousands of lives in the mediterranean. italy, which welcomed them, italy, which, on the other hand, was left alone by europe and by those who today, with great hypocrisy, allow themselves to criticize the government's policy of combating illegal immigration. we wonder what you have done in these years, what france has done, for example? today, she announced she was going to award carola rackete, but she was careful not to respond to her sos at sea. so french ports closed, but medals open... once again a great hypocrisy that i find embarrassing! the truth is that only our government and only minister salvini with great courage and against all kinds of insults, is trying to stop the business of slave traders and illegal immigration, saving lives. the policy of closed ports has allowed fewer landings, those you mentioned, fewer deaths in the mediterranean, and the league does not say that, but the un figures do. and yet, rather than being judged by foreign totologists, come to italy, come to sicily, to lampedusa, and you will see in what desperate conditions they are trying to contain an epochal phenomenon which carries with it numerous and different problems. it is the responsibility of this parliament and the council to help those who are entitled to it, but in a legal and safe way, beyond the proclamations, those we have heard and continue to hear. we expect real and immediate action. our citizens are tired of... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was not a member of the european parliament, i was already working here for the league and i know that many debates of this kind have been held and i do not think that we will have solved the problem tonight. i note, however, that the league's members were six, now there are 28, our group was 37 members, now there are 73. perhaps some of you have not understood what the solution is, but i am not addressing the left, i am addressing my friends in the epp who i think are very confused, who i think want to govern this europe together with people who say these things, together with people who continue to carry on a discourse that is not right or wrong, it is totally unrealistic and unreal. if there are no deaths today, or rather fewer than a few years ago, we owe it to the activities of matteo salvini, the activities of the coast guard, the navy and the financial guard. we are witnessing the hypocrisy of those who, like the present french government - we have many friends in france who think as we do - but the french government prevents mrs rackete from landing in marseille, arrests those who bring immigrants from italy to france, but then in paris rewards mrs rackete or tries to destabilise italy historically since they decided and insisted, even in the days of sarkozy, on military intervention in libya. then what are we talking about? we are talking about economic migrants, the only solution is to return them. commissioner avramopoulos tried and you have sunk that directive, we have to work on this, otherwise we will have ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great emotion and respect that i address this house for the first time. i am from lampedusa - some of you may not know this - and for thirty years in lampedusa, the gateway to europe, i have personally rescued, welcomed and cared for those who arrive after a long voyage by sea. i've seen pure horror, i've done thousands of body inspections, i've seen hormonal torture, i've seen gum disease - someone here doesn't know what they're talking about - i've seen so many horrors, i don't want to describe them here. europe cannot abandon men, women and children at sea and send them back to the hell of libya. we have a responsibility to these people. that is why i am urgently calling for a new european search and rescue plan in the mediterranean. in recent years, ngos active in the mediterranean have saved thousands of lives by making up for the shortcomings of governments, closed in on their national selfishness and unable to find solutions in the name of solidarity. yet many have pointed the finger at these organizations, criminalizing them for offering humanitarian aid and for respecting the law of the sea. this can't happen again. i am asking for the favouring directive to be amended: those who provide humanitarian aid cannot and should not be criminalised. and if we really want to prevent thousands of people from making the dangerous journeys to europe every day, we need legal channels not only for asylum seekers, but also for those fleeing poverty, hunger and adverse climatic conditions. last march this parliament voted an ambitious resolution on humanitarian visas, calling on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal. the new commission should be a champion of this and show a strong political commitment to complete the dublin reform which this parliament has already voted on by a large majority. the member states take their responsibility in helsinki, they discuss not ad hoc measures but long-term policies.
mr stedman- bryce, i feel obliged to make a remark about your choice of words. members are not supposed to use offensive language, so when you talk about ‘rubbish’, please be careful.
madam president, there is no question that we must help those in need. the question is how and where. the problem must be addressed at its root. time has proven that there are radically fewer migrant disasters in the mediterranean since border controls have been tightened. the mass deaths are caused by europe allowing human traffickers and ngo ships of unclear origin to operate unhindered at sea. the right humanitarian support is to make it clear that illegal border crossing is not an option. if europe does not protect itself, then in a very short time, there will be demographic, security and cultural changes that could spell the end of european civilization and the end of the european union, because no one will be able to control it. the new european parliament has a huge responsibility in this respect. let us make it clear to the european parliament and the eu leadership that the external borders of the european union, both land and sea, must be protected. the operation of ngo vessels assisting in human smuggling must be prevented. we need to distinguish economic immigrants from genuine refugees and get help where the problem is, not bring the problem here. border protection not only protects europe, it also saves lives. if we make it clear that there's no point in taking lifeboats out of africa, then no one will be lost at sea. the new leadership now has the opportunity to finally act, in a sane, truly humanitarian way, to save lives and at the same time protect the lives of the people of europe.
madam president, yesterday the future president of the commission committed herself to opening a new phase in the common immigration policy. we can't wait. let's move from words to deeds. the mediterranean has become a graveyard. we have to shut it down. 18,000 deaths between 2014 and 2018. not one more death! for us, immigrants are not numbers: they are people fleeing conflict, persecution or poverty, and every death is a tragedy. we cannot stop at words of rejection every time a ship sinks off our coast, nor at the specific solutions of solidarity offered by some progressive governments - let us say the government of pedro sánchez - when the mafias leave thousands of migrants adrift. we cannot allow migrants to become victims of conflicts between smugglers, ngos dedicated to rescuing migrants and irresponsible governments - the italian government, for example - who punish the duty to save lives at sea and evade respect for the values of the union. we cannot wait to see how the nightmare ends in each case: whether ports and borders will remain closed; whether captains will be imprisoned; whether emergency ships will arrive in time to save lives. i therefore ask that the new community executive and the member states commit themselves to presenting urgently, now, a european union emergency plan, with a legal framework and adequate financial instruments and resources, for the disembarkation and relocation of migrants rescued in the mediterranean. we must act with will, political responsibility, determination, giving priority to the humanitarian approach, solidarity between member states.
madam president, according to the international organization for migration, this year alone 682 people have died or gone missing in the mediterranean. another shocking figure is that, over the last five years, 250 people were prosecuted because they tried to help refugees. the figure i have not found is how many human smugglers we have put on trial. so i think we have the wrong focus. we should not put volunteers on trial. we have to put the focus on the smugglers. so i was very glad when ms ursula von der leyen said that we have a moral duty to save lives at sea. that’s the europe i want to stand for. so let us not accept a europe where women, children and men drown at sea. let us work together to make a real migration policy in europe and save the people at sea.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president sassoli, as soon as he was elected, said that the doors of parliament are open to ngos transporting illegal immigrants to italy. in the mediterranean, ngos are not saving lives, but they are accomplices of human traffickers. carola rackete is not a hero, but a german citizen who violated italian law and boarded a ship of the guardia finanziaria. any other country in the world would have him in jail. italians are tired of this europe, friendly to illegal immigrants. on may 26, 9 million italians voted for change, led by matteo salvini's league. they voted no to illegal immigration, they voted yes to border defense. we will continue with the policy of zero tolerance and expulsions, whether the new european commission likes it or not. sassoli and his fellow communists should take the illegal immigrants back to their homes and villas and stop giving moral lessons to italian citizens who are only asking for justice, security and respect for the law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only a minute to speak on a subject of extreme complexity, and i would like to quote a great european patriot, pope john paul ii. in his apostolic exhortation "ecclesia in europe" published in 2003, the polish pope wrote: "it is the responsibility of public authorities to exercise control over migration flows in the interests of the common good. the reception must always be carried out in compliance with the law and must therefore be combined, where necessary, with the firm suppression of abuses. 'i would remind the members of this parliament that instead of supporting the actions of those who do not respect the laws of a member state, we should all be doing even more to create the economic and social conditions so that everyone can stay in their own country, instead of seeking their fortune elsewhere. finally, let me emphasize the generosity of the sicilians and italians, who in recent years have continued to save lives at sea and to welcome those in need, but who also asked us loudly, through the vote in may, to take our responsibilities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious, as these debates also show, that the european union has proved incapable of adopting a coherent and shared approach to the migration crisis, a structural phenomenon which is the result of the economic and social contexts of sub-saharan africa. there is a paradox. the paradox is that, faced with a structural problem - i repeat - which is likely to become a global humanitarian catastrophe, the european union continues to operate in a state of emergency. let us remember the advance of global warming and the population growth of the african continent, which will explode in a few years. instead of doing as we have done so far, the european union must adopt a long-term political vision that moves in two directions. first, the european institutions must use all the legislative and political pressure instruments available to them to bring about, as quickly as possible, an organic reform of the dublin iii regulation in accordance with the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. secondly, the european union must guarantee the geopolitical stability of north africa and at the same time contribute to the pursuit of sustainable and just development in the countries of origin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to the speeches of the council and the commission and of many colleagues, and i do not hide my deep perplexity at seeing so much hypocrisy in the correct framing of the problem. our common christian roots require a profound concern for human rights, but we cannot tolerate the feeling of solidarity becoming an alibi, an alibi for the growth of illegal and criminal trafficking which exploits the migratory flows. if opening the ports means fuelling deportations and misleading thousands of migrants into thinking that they are going to paradise in europe, but instead they are going to enrich the mafias, then we cannot be complicit. europol has pointed out that this new slave trade is worth six billion a year and is one of the most profitable criminal industries. each new slave pays four, five thousand euros to win a place under the bridges or perhaps an exploitation of two euros an hour. the whole of europe should stand by our government in respecting national laws and not give the usual cheer and medal to the carola rackete on duty who arrogantly hopes to gain a view of our financial guard. it should be understood that the pressure in the south of the continent will soon affect all the borders. it is a matter of common sense, mr president, simple common sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ngos are criminalising themselves. it's news a few minutes ago that the prime minister's office of agrigento has called for the imprisonment of carola rackete for an act of unjustified force. this is coming from a judge, not a politician, who, whether he likes it or not, is a judge of a sovereign state, which has laws and these laws must be respected by everyone. no one wants to die at sea, but we cannot leave the management of such an important phenomenon to private organizations, of which we know little. we have to stop the hypocrisy of this state, of this european union and focus on stabilizing the places where these people come from - i think of libya - and we don't do that by maybe selling arms under the table to this or that dictator, but we do it by stabilizing these territories and consolidating humanitarian corridors for only those who really need assistance, and only those who are really political refugees.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution tabled in this house today condemns the treatment of illegal immigrants in the usa, particularly minors, as if we were talking about a third world country. in america, the policy of separating minors from legal immigrant adults is not new. there is a ruling, flores v. reno a case of ill-treatment suffered in a cie by a fifteen-year-old salvadoran girl, dating back to '97 that children cannot be detained in cie with adults awaiting a ruling. so the trump administration didn't change the rules, they were the same rules under democratic governments. the children are held in other facilities controlled by ngos. illegal immigrants admitted to the new york times that they brought children with them, believing that this would release them from the custody of the u.s. authorities. others admitted that the children they were with were not their children. policies to curb illegal immigration are sacrosanct. a man who builds a fence around his house does so not because he hates those outside, but to protect those inside. president trump's clarity in his relentless fight against illegal immigration is certainly preferable to the kindness that european leaders accustomed us to years ago, when they advocated, in words, opening their doors and hearts to all immigrants and then blaming the problem on the first-country host countries. this parliament is concerned primarily with the member states' concern for the defence of europe's borders, rather than trying to give lessons of humanity and civility to the united states of america.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaties of the european union unite us all in the inviolable principle of democracy and the rule of law. on the contrary, we note that china is trying everywhere, including the united nations, to undermine the individual rights of individuals by putting the primacy of the state over all kinds of individual freedoms, under the pretext of defending national sovereignty. to claim, as carrie lam did, that her fellow citizens are a small minority of violent, socially unreliable, economically uninterested, chaos and threat carriers, worse than sars or financial crises, is false and profoundly undemocratic. the actions of the hong kong police and authorities, which you have directed under the strict control of the chinese authorities, are inhuman to say the least. we should respond to all this without hesitation, with a firm political declaration by the eu, which recognises the special status of hong kong and guides the perimeter of our future relations with china, in the name of respect for human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing mr sassoli, although he is not present in the chamber at the moment, despite his position as president of parliament. but i have been following his statements closely since the beginning of his term in office and i must say that i have become quite obsessed with immigration. you said earlier that you were in favour of ngos, regardless of the fact that they actually facilitate the divers; he said that it was necessary to welcome immigrants, without considering that most of them, those who enter italy, are illegal and have no right to be welcomed. the european parliament has attacked the policy of closed ports, after years in which italy, thanks to the left, has become the refugee camp of the whole of europe. i would have expected more restraint from the president, not some unbridled pro-immigration racket. i have to say that i have seen the same attitude on the part of the president of the commission. i have heard nothing but goodwill, empty words, commercials, after years of nothingness from europe. we simply want a europe that is less concerned with talking about false integration and more concerned with defending its borders, just as salvini is doing in italy. i conclude by saying that we are tired of a europe which has been criticizing italy for months and which has not helped our country in the least. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, climate change is the greatest challenge that mankind has ever faced. we are facing a huge challenge of mitigation, adaptation and protection of biodiversity. the scientific consensus on these priorities is unquestionable, but many question the evidence and withdraw from the multilateral agreements that are crucial to the defence of the planet. it is against this backdrop that antónio guterres has called for the climate action summit in new york as early as next week with the aim of encouraging heads of state to increase their contribution to reducing emissions. in the european union we have done so from the very beginning. we are the most ambitious economy in the world in tackling climate change, an ambition reinforced by the new commission. in the previous mandate i was part of the negotiating team on the energy union governance regulation and we managed to get a strong agreement and we can now go even further. the challenge of decarbonization is a global challenge. let us not hesitate to share what we have achieved in the legislative field and let us be quick to put it into practice. we have a plan, commissioner, we have 27 national plans, we have a european union plan. let's make them real!
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this rich and engaging debate, which demonstrates that climate policy and development goals policy are truly at the heart of the european debate. i will start with some words from mr peter liese. mr liese says that sometimes we europeans criticise ourselves too much, but i think that in new york the european union, thanks to the efforts of this parliament or the former parliament, has a very good story to tell. our energy legislation was approved in this house with 80%, on average, of the votes cast. our climate legislation was approved here with more than 78% of the votes cast. there was wide support for the efforts that the commission had put on the table to deliver ambitious climate policy. and where are we now, what’s the story we can tell in new york? we europeans have the most ambitious nationally determined contribution (ndc) of all those expressed by the parties to the climate convention, reducing our emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared with 1990. but what is most important is that we have all the binding legislation needed to achieve this target and in fact – thanks to parliament’s ambition – to over—achieve this target, because with the current legislation we will reduce our emissions by 45%. so we have an ambitious target, we have binding legislation, and we have strong governance in the form of integrated national climate action plans. no other party in the world has this. if the government changes in the united states, the policy changes. in the european elections, elections result in different governments every time but the policy remains the same. so we have ambitious commitments, we have strong legislation and we have put on the table a very ambitious climate-neutral study for 2050. in the october council, 24 member states endorsed this legislation – there are only four missing at the moment – and i have high expectations that in the december council this climate neutrality for 2050 will be a reality in the european union. it will be extremely important: climate neutrality in 2050 is much more ambitious than the pathways of the international panel on climate change (ipcc), because the ipcc says that globally we have to become climate neutral after 2060 and before 2080. we will become the first major economy to become climate neutral in 2050, and that’s a good story to tell, notably because, in the new commission, the president-elect has committed to proposing a european green deal in the first 100 days of her term, and that will include the first european climate law to enshrine the 2050 climate neutrality target. we have a strong story to tell. in addition, the president-elect wants to reduce emissions by 50% in 2030 and not by 2055. so we will go to new york with a good story. and we will go too with lots of support for developing countries to be able to implement climate action, because what is important is not that the european union is the most ambitious it has ever been, and that we are delivering and will deliver on our commitments, but that we are also supporting other people in delivering and are doing outreach to convince the world that it has to work in this direction. we are the biggest donor of climate finance to developing countries, more than eur 20 billion every year, so we can be proud of what we have done. we have a lot of ground to cover because we have to work to be world leaders, because if we are world leaders – developing renewables, developing energy efficiency, phasing out fossil fuels and creating growth and jobs in the green economy – then the rest of the world will follow us. so we have a responsibility because if the european union does not assume the leadership then nobody will assume it – here, in climate policy or on the sustainable development goals. i am pretty sure that the new commission will take that responsibility on board and that this parliament will give the next commission the same degree of support that they gave to me. when we made proposals, parliament improved the proposals. now with the commitments of the president-elect, i’m also sure that this parliament will raise the level of ambition. just two comments. becoming climate neutral is a revolution, an economic and social revolution, bigger probably than the industrial revolution, because it changes the way you produce energy, changes the way you heat and cool, changes how your industry is going to produce goods and the means whereby we transport ourselves. it’s a revolution. changing the way our agriculture has to reduce methane emissions and the use of fertilisers is a big revolution and it produces different impacts in different territories. the impacts are asymmetrical, but there must be a fair and just social transition, and for that the just transition fund becomes fundamental. i am extremely happy that the president-elect has declared the commission will support the people in the regions most affected through a just transition fund. this is fundamental because nobody should be left behind in the big transformation that the european economic and social system must envisage in the next few years. so we will be ambitious on climate policy but we also have to look after our citizens, our people, so that this is a socially just and fair transition. a final very specific word on the comment made by mr ferreira. he referred to the impact of trade agreements and to mercosur in relation to climate policy. i just want to say that the european union is strongly committed to leveraging its trade policy to promote climate action in partner countries and to project our approach to climate policies and standards. we have delivered on this commitment in all the agreements negotiated in the past year. the mercosur association agreement follows this approach. it has an ambitious, dedicated ‘trade and sustainable development’ chapter, including legally binding commitments related to environmental protection and climate change, and with respect to the paris agreement it contains the strongest form of commitment. each party commits individually to effectively implementing the paris climate agreement, including in respect of the nationally determined contributions. this means that withdrawal from the paris agreement or a breach of its commitments will also be a breach of the eu-mercosur agreement, and the commitment to effective implementation of the paris agreement is particularly meaningful where partners have made a strong nationally determined contribution under the paris agreement.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. today, more than 2 billion people - one third of the world's population - are estimated to be totally destitute and poor, and increasingly threatened by livelihood and social problems, including climate change. it is estimated that by 2030, an additional 100 million people could be affected by severe deprivation and more than 200 million people could be displaced due to climate change and climate disasters. this means that climate change could hamper the success of important global efforts to end the world's poverty, such as the un's sustainable development goals, which aim to end extreme poverty within 15 years. poor communities and low-income countries are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, and those who are poorest suffer far more than the average. they are more vulnerable to natural disasters such as floods, which can wash away their assets and livelihoods, and they are at increased risk of waterborne diseases such as malaria. if we don't act quickly, climate change will catalyze the growth of poverty. we therefore need a platform to combat climate change and poverty and a comprehensive eu anti-poverty strategy where we can come up with integrated solutions to address these global problems.
the debate on the report by mr roberto gualtieri on the appointment of the president of the european central bank (n9-0023/2019 - c9-0048/2019 - 2019/0810 (nle)) (a9-0008/2019) is closed. before we open the debate, i would like to inform and remind those who already know that we are going to test the new electronic registration system for 'catch-the-eye' and 'blue card' applications in this plenary session. the information has been made available to the members. the instructions are at your seats and you can therefore use the respective buttons on the appropriate functions of your electronic voting devices to submit the 'catch-the-eye' and 'blue card' requests to intervene. while the system is being tested, it is still possible to apply in the old, traditional way, but we would urge members to use the new methodology, which means that you should not forget to bring your voting card with you so that you can participate in the debates through these electronic instruments. i shall now begin our debate. as you know, the report which forms the basis of our debate was a report by our former colleague roberto gualtieri, who has now become italy's minister for the economy and to whom we certainly wish the best of luck in his new role. for the presentation of this report he was replaced by our colleague irene tinagli, who was elected yesterday as president of the econ committee, thus also replacing our colleague gualtieri in this task. we also wish her every success in her work in this very important committee of this parliament. i therefore give her the floor at the beginning of our debate. mrs tinagli has six minutes to speak, as she has expressed an interest in using up her opening and closing speeches in the same opening speech. i would like to ask you to take the floor.
chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, with this report the european parliament delivers its opinion on the appointment of the fourth president of the european central bank – an institution which became a fundamental pillar not only for the conduct of monetary policies but also for the whole process of europe’s economic integration. the nomination of christine lagarde as the first woman to serve in this position, which is itself something historic, is happening fortuitously only a few months after the solemn celebration in this chamber of the euro’s 20th anniversary. the single currency is, first and foremost, a powerful economic tool. not only is it the natural and indispensable complement to the single market, but it is also, as president mario draghi often recalls in his speeches, the prerequisite for preserving monetary sovereignty in an increasingly global and interconnected world. the euro though is more than a mere economic tool: it is, above all, an ambitious political project. it is the cornerstone of a european union of peace and prosperity and the indispensable instrument for protecting and supporting the european economic, social and political model – as we face the important transformations of our time. over the past 20 years – despite the imperfection and incompleteness of european economic governance – the single currency has shown amazing strength and resilience, even when confronted with one of the toughest economic crises in history. in addition to the political determination to maintain its integrity, the commitment by the european central bank and its presidents – within their terms of reference, of course – to preserve the single currency through concrete monetary-policy action has made a fundamental contribution to protecting the euro and hence the well-being of all european citizens. the 76 written answers provided by the candidate, which are attached to the report being voted on today, as well as the intense hearing before the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 4 september, show, i believe, not only christine lagarde’s awareness of the task and the challenges ahead but also her suitability to take up the baton from her predecessors and to keep on pursuing this important mission. the large consensus which the candidate obtained in the committee constitutes, i believe, a good basis for the outcome of today’s vote. however, our task does not end here. in accordance with the treaties and in line with our committee’s work and that of parliament as a whole, we will keep on monitoring the activity and decisions of the ecb, inter alia through quarterly monetary dialogues, annual reports and written questions from meps. as always, we will be demanding. and we will expect an institution that lives up to the fundamental task it is expected to perform. if we want to reach our ambitious objectives, however, the strength and the stability of the euro is not sufficient. we need to add new institutions, new tools and truly european economic policies to monetary-policy measures. it is imperative to pursue an authentic deepening of our economic and monetary union, as was stated too in the programme presented by commission president-elect ursula von der leyen, which includes measures to ensure the full implementation of the social pillar, as well as growth-oriented revision of european economic governance. in this context, as co-legislator, we are ready to accept the challenge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to make a point. in the past years all the monetary policy action of the ecb has proved to be a failure for a very simple reason: the commission has not been able to transfer this enormous liquidity capacity to the real economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need that. it doesn't matter if the interest is zero or even negative: european entrepreneurs want to have ready access to credit. mrs lagarde, at the econ hearing, was unable to give a satisfactory answer to this question. the actions of the ecb are certainly intended to save the euro, but certainly not the businesses of the whole of europe. our vote is certain: it's going to be negative for us.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in a democracy, fair and free elections are crucial and yet, unfortunately, they are not self—evident and cannot be taken for granted. in recent years, millions of europeans have been exposed to massive disinformation campaigns during election time as a result of foreign interference. cyber—attacks have risen to an unprecedented level, with dangerous access to strategic infrastructure and data. crucial electoral rules on the financing of political parties by third countries have been either breached or circumvented. in july, italian media revealed a plan by russians to fund matteo salvini’s league. that is only the latest incident and, as we know, this goes well beyond just russia or just italy. this house was vocal on the issue of interference during the last parliamentary term and so was the european external action service and the commission. i am happy to hear that the finnish presidency is also taking it up as one of its priorities. i’m proud that the s&d group managed to gain widespread political support for this important topic to be on the agenda this week. i’m also pleased to hear that there is widespread support for seeking a strong resolution: we need serious answers on how to prevent third parties from undermining our democratic systems. to address this challenge effectively, my group proposes to establish a special parliamentary committee so that european democracy, in which elections are always free and fair, is and remains self—evident and once again can be taken for granted.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, you began your speech by explaining and expressing your satisfaction that the european elections had gone well and that there had been no attack at that time and i am indeed pleased that the european elections had gone well. however, elections in general, and european elections in particular, are not the whole of democracy. and what mr king and mrs jourová have made very clear is that our democracy, as we understand it in europe, is in danger. it is in danger, indeed, because of the phenomena of disinformation which you have noted and which you have rightly pointed out, commissioner. but it is also in danger through the funding of political parties - this has just been mentioned and it is very important to say this - that is to say, the foundation of democracy in europe. we know that foreign powers that do not want the european union to do well - we have spoken about russia, not just russia, but russia, it is clear, it is established, it is defined - have financed, to the tune of one billion euros, information elements, financing of our political parties, essentially those who want to destroy the european union and who find themselves on the extreme right of this house, both in italy and in france or elsewhere. so we really have to fight the financing of political parties and resolution is very important. we must give ourselves the means and give the means to stratcom, which has three million euros a year. three million euros... five million euros - that has been increased, you are right, commissioner, to raise it - but compared to one billion. let us be serious, let us give ourselves the means to be able to act on elements of misinformation. let us give ourselves the means to ban foreign funding of our european democracy and our political parties, and let us give ourselves the means to technological independence. because if we have to systematically look outside the european union to be able to control, we are faced with a major difficulty: that of independence and our ability to act.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the finnish presidency in particular for taking this matter so seriously. i would also like to thank the commission for the intensive work it has done on this subject. the europe that protects must first and foremost protect its own values, and that means protecting its democracy and european sovereignty. that is the point of this debate. we must not be cautious and careful in only one direction. there are not only proven attempts to interfere from russia, but also from mr erdoğan in turkey. the totalitarian chinese leadership would like to exploit economic dependence, and reactionary circles in the united states have also tried to interfere with european democracy to our detriment. i think it's part of a great conflict between an emerging authoritarian international and the international push for democracy. but if we are not to lose this, we must not only look at who else wants to interfere with us, but we must also ensure that no dividing lines arise in europe that can be exploited by others - this is also part of the defence of our democracy and sovereignty.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's speech is quite surreal. some early references to the importance of cybersecurity are positive: it is a very important issue, we think about nato, israel, what role they can play in this. however, there is someone here who is perhaps pretending that he can continue to play the game that has entrenched you behind your nine majority votes for mrs von der leyen, because it is you who speak of fake news, or rather it is you who spread it. often many of these cases you mention have been denied by the same media that brought them out, not to mention what happened in italy, that is, absolutely nothing happened and we will soon be certain of this too, there are courts that will make it clear. but what is behind this need of yours? there's an excuse to maybe cage the internet, curb internet freedom - we saw that with the absurd debate on the copyright directive at the end of the last legislature. why would you do that? because you don't understand the citizens anymore, you don't understand the voters anymore. so there's a vote on brexit and it surprises you, there's a vote on the american presidential election and it surprises you, there's a vote for the european parliament which sees our strength double and you don't understand why. why would you do that? because you're locked in here and have no connection with the facts. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in 2018, you allocated €33.3 million to you do! influencing the european elections. you say that we must not only get the electorate to the polls but also convince them to support the european project, which gives meaning to the european parliament itself. from what pulpit can you talk about outside interference?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the spirit of this resolution. however, i do not share this obsessive, i would say compulsive, search by the european parliament for an enemy. this is something i don't understand. let me explain: i believe that we need to defend our democratic, social and economic security with better infrastructure and better legislative tools. i also think of the 5g revolution, which is coming and which clearly needs to be governed with great care, selecting the economic partners well. i said that although i understand the substance of this resolution, i find it difficult to understand the method, because i think it is much more important to concentrate our attention on strengthening the european agencies responsible for this matter rather than to wander around in the compulsive search for enemies against whom to lash out politically.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that fake news and disinformation constitute a real risk, capable of influencing the conviction of citizens during the electoral campaigns by those who are constantly campaigning, as is being done in this house by reproposing manipulated news such as that on russian funds, on which the courts will be ruling. in demonizing the adversary, as is unfortunately the custom, great care must be taken not to damage the great democratic value of the internet and the free circulation of ideas, the foundation of knowledge and human emancipation. it seems that the commission, under the pretext of combating disinformation, is encouraging further censorship of dissenting opinions, as is already the case on social networks. so i wonder if it is the case that a private operator, such as facebook, has the authority to censor a citizen without any intervention by a third public entity that can protect him. i think we should take some serious action.
mr president, just before coming here i had a short exchange of views with jessikka aro. jessikka aro was the finnish journalist who revealed what was actually going on behind the walls of a russian address, 55 savushkina street in st petersburg. what she experienced thereafter was something terrible because the family of trolls, russian or their friends, actually tried to do something nobody in this house would like to experience, because they were trying to destroy her as a personality. she was too strong for that, but she had one question for you: give interpol enough money to be able to fight this sort of criminal act.
mr. chairman, please! i think we can all agree that the interference of third countries in the internal electoral processes of the union through disinformation is a great threat to the democratic process, to the fundamental rights of citizens, to freedom, to reliable information and to sovereignty, above all to the sovereignty of the member states. we also have to agree that it is not by chance that we are talking about one country, russia. and it is certainly not only the eu countries, but also the eastern partnership countries that are victims of such campaigns. we should maybe help them fight this kind of misinformation. but there are two things that need to be said. first, that of course other actors, other states, non-state actors, and member states and their media trying to interfere in the democratic processes of neighbouring countries are also sources of disinformation and fake news. and i also wanted to talk about one more pathological effect, which is that it's very clear today that those who have been fighting conspiracy theories are now succumbing to conspiracy theories themselves. they see putin and his trolls everywhere when they are dealing with election results that don't suit their tastes.
mr president, i would like to make one point very clear: the work we have to do against manipulation and disinformation, particularly in electoral matters, is not work to be done only on the eve of elections. it's a continuous work, especially because the manipulation of public opinion is often done with time and it's done with insistence in social networks, in technological platforms, in conventional media, and so we have to have a response that is a continuous response. on the one hand, through the european external action service, where i think there is much to improve; on the other hand, through technological platforms, and not just through their spontaneous cooperation but through their collaboration with european and national bodies; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and here i say: training politicians, because politicians contribute to fake news. training of religious leaders and opinion leaders, because they contribute to the credibility of fake news. training, in particular, of journalists and journalists from all existing media. training these operators will be essential to detect fake news, exploitation and to prevent the other risk, the risk on the other side which is censorship, and which we also want to ban.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, liberal democracy is under attack and will remain under attack for the next ten years. it is under attack from within, from parties like the league and the five star movement in italy who want to demolish it, and this attack is answered with elections, because democracy defends itself with democracy. but it is also under attack from outside, and this attack from outside is compounded by the parties attacking it from within, and in this case democracy cannot be enough to defend democracy, a special commission is needed to investigate how there has been very heavy interference by those parties who claim to defend the national interest but sell the national interest to foreign countries. this is intolerable and europe must be able to defend itself! democracy is respectful, democracy is open, but democracy is not weak. democracy is strong and responsive. i would like to conclude by saying that the speeches on the other side of the issue are very similar to the latin expression "excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta".
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, kashmir is one of the most beautiful areas of india and with security and stability could be so enormously prosperous, but for over 70 years it has had an unsettled status and has been under threat, afflicted by externally sponsored terrorism and extremism, and at last there is an opportunity to rectify the situation. legally, the whole territory should have been part of india from the start but instead it was invaded and partly occupied by pakistan, which then allowed its special services to support subversion and terrorism, costing thousands of lives across the line of control into india. tourism dried up, the economy was put in jeopardy, and under the temporary article 370 of the indian constitution people lived under different locally imposed rules. now the changes brought in by prime minister modi will give the same rights to the people of kashmir as those in the rest of india, and we should look at what’s happening in pakistan if we really want to see abuse of rights, women, religious minorities and transgender people, and all the difficulties that they face in that country. our governments and the european union support dialogue and constructive engagement between india and pakistan. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr van orden, i agree with what you have said and i would like to ask you if you have read the threat that has been made by pakistan to use nuclear weapons, because this is the real issue that the european parliament should be dealing with: the use of nuclear weapons by pakistan and above all the fact that pakistan is a territory which has bred - and history says so - over the years numerous terrorists, who have carried out bloody attacks in europe, not to mention all the human rights violations in pakistan.
blue-card answer. – pakistan has been a source of nuclear proliferation. it has given sanctuary to terrorist organisations and terrorist leaders, and it promotes terrorism across the line of control into india. yes, we are talking about two nuclear-armed states, but i don’t think that is relevant to this particular matter at this time. if the european union wants to be helpful, it should not be carping. the high representative should listen more closely to foreign minister jaishankar and what he had to say, because you are getting a very distorted picture from the contributions we’ve heard in this parliament so far.
mr president, let me also declare an interest, in that i visited azad kashmir last month. the unilateral action by india revoking the autonomy that it granted to the part of kashmir that it controlled – splitting the territory into two, sending in thousands of extra troops, instituting a media shutdown and arresting many local politicians – has inflamed an already volatile situation. this conflict has gone on for nearly 70 years now. it cannot be in india’s interest that it continues. it costs india a fortune. it’s a stain on its international reputation. it’s time to press for a solution, but frankly there is only one viable long-term and peaceful solution and that is self-determination for the people of kashmir. that is what the united nations laid down in 1947, when india took the dispute to the un security council. it’s time to implement that, and the eu should use the combined diplomatic leverage of its 28 countries and its own powers on trade, and so on, to press for that outcome. it’s not too late.
mr president, kashmir joined india only on the condition that it retained its autonomy, and this included a clause denying india the right to change that arrangement unilaterally. the indian supreme court has upheld this principle in previous judgments, and it’s interesting that opposition politician shashi tharoor has today described the actions of the indian government as unconstitutional. i do not deny that there have been terrorist problems, and that has provoked some action. in geneva last week, i took the trouble to discuss this with pakistani foreign minister shah mahmood qureshi, and i asked him that pakistan do more to clamp down on insurgents. others have described the situation on the ground, and i think it’s important to know that i’ve been discussing this with people who were in srinagar at the time. what should happen now? well, the curfew should be lifted, the kashmiri regional government reinstated and political prisoners released, and un observers should be allowed access. for the long term, we call on pakistan and india to agree on an independent mediator to facilitate talks that includes kashmiri people from both sides of the line of control. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – certainly we don’t know whether there would be a majority, because it hasn’t been tested. but i think the assertion is that this is a very undeveloped and backward area. despite the fact that this has been an area of conflict for 70 years, and we know that conflict actually does depress the economy, if you actually look at the indicators – and i have actually looked at virtually every indicator in terms of well-being, incomes, literacy; virtually every indicator you can think of – kashmir comes out better than the rest of india, and as one of the top areas of india.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reports on kashmir rarely cover the massive human rights violations committed by both sides - pakistan and india. we can't let that go to waste. but we are also on the brink of war between these two nuclear powers. in my view, there is only one way to prevent such a war and also the human rights violations: that is to enforce the un resolutions on this subject - admittedly, perhaps a little optimistically on my part. but we simply cannot let that happen, and that means that the un has to act here, that it has to go there with a peacekeeping mission if necessary, in agreement with both sides, which is difficult, i admit. but there's only one solution. we can't let this go on. i therefore urge the high representative to take action here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kashmir has been difficult before, and there have been instances of violence over the years. i find this discussion a bit unbalanced: i think that dialogue is done not by attacking one side or speaking in favour of the other. we are talking about a region of the world where there have been terrorist groups linked to islamic extremism for some time, where there are phenomena of radicalisation that are absolutely worrying. isis flags have been seen in this area and there has been violence for far too long. so maybe we should look at the historical context, rely on really authoritative sources and information, and generally support those who are fighting terrorists. hundreds of thousands of indians have left this region since the 1990s because of the violence. i wonder why we do not discuss the many victims of attacks and clashes and why we do not talk about the threats and religious discrimination carried out by pakistan. i think that we as europe should generally respect the sovereignty of the states and respect and stand by those who take security measures to counter terrorist phenomena.
mr president, we in the european parliament uphold the principles enshrined in the treaties. therefore, i am ashamed by the lack of resolution on kashmir. there will always be those who will support india in deflecting the world’s attention away from its shortcomings and placing blame on others, their perceived foes. but, on this occasion, india alone is responsible for revoking article 370 and for the current deplorable, bellicose and destructive situation in kashmir. if we profess our belief in human rights and religious freedom, then why are we silent? the most fundamental right, the right to self-determination, has been denied to the kashmiris for more than 70 years. how long do we stay silent? how bad does it have to get? let us put aside our apathy, or indeed our eagerness to conclude a free-trade agreement, and examine our conscience: democratic principles, peace and stability are ultimately in the interests of india too.
mr president, to those members who have spoken today of their indignation towards india, i am astonished by your partiality, oversight and lack of any real empathy with the kashmiris. why do i say partiality? when pakistan took the same measures in gilgit and baltistan, we didn’t speak up. when they gave away territory that wasn’t theirs to china we didn't speak up. or when sikh and other minority women are abducted and forced to convert, we don’t speak up. the fact is that there are human-rights violations in pakistan-occupied kashmir and very many honourable colleagues look the other way. let me be clear: the solution to kashmir is not going to be found in this chamber. the solution to kashmir will come when state-sponsored terrorism and global misinformation by pakistan ends, then dialogue will follow. pakistan may talk the talk, but it does not walk the walk when it comes to human rights, and it beggars belief that it has gsp+ status. and i say to those colleagues concerned about the rescinding of article 370, you are focusing on one part and ignoring the other issues that are dear to the hearts of many of us. not only will this improve the rights of lgbt people, women and minorities, it will also improve environmental and other protection measures, and ban the outrageous ‘triple talaq’ divorce. why should kashmiris have fewer rights than those enjoyed by indians elsewhere?
mr president, on 5 august the indian prime minister, mr narendra modi, decided to revoke the autonomy of kashmir. this is because indian security forces have recently been the target of attacks by islamist groups in kashmir, most of which claim responsibility from pakistan. it is well known that pakistan, especially since the coming to power of imran khan, supported by the islamist parties, has a more than benevolent attitude towards the terrorist groups in kashmir, against the indian government. the willingness of narendra modi to take matters into his own hands is a testament to his determination to fight islamist terrorism and to hold pakistan accountable, whose intelligence services have long been the protectors of bin laden. in pakistan, demonstrations were organized by all islamist movements and encouraged by the government, to protest the indian government's decision. it should be remembered that kashmir is a region of the indian union. we are surprised, once again, at the reaction of the un secretary-general, who stigmatised india's position. while the country has been repeatedly attacked by terrorists in kashmir and elsewhere, such as in bombay in 2008, it has never received any support when faced with the islamist threat. as our colleague thierry mariani reminded the afet committee, kashmir is indian. the kashmir issue is therefore an internal matter of the indian union and nothing more. it is hard to believe that brussels could adopt the pakistan dialect in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! let's remember an important fact. india is the largest democracy in the world. and also -- in the context of our democracy -- i would say that this is probably our only democratic ally in this part of asia. i think you have to look at the broader, you have to look at the series of terrorist acts that have taken place in india, including in jammu and kashmir. and these terrorists, they didn't fall from the moon, they unfortunately came from the neighborhood. it's important to see it in this context, too. i believe that we as a european democracy should support a democratic india. this trial that's taking place here over the indies, i don't like it personally. and mr. corbett, who just left, said what he said, as if he didn't remember that a couple of seventy years ago, his country, great britain, had ceased to have an indian colony. india is not a british colony.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kashmir, like so many others in the world, requires intensive diplomatic work based on international law and respect for human rights. on the one hand, there is a constitutional amendment, which was approved by a large majority in both the upper and lower houses. on the other hand, there has been no consultation of the people of kashmir. i remember jawaharlal nehru saying: "we gave our word of honor for a peaceful solution, it must be respected". the first un report on human rights in kashmir called for a commission of inquiry into violations by both sides. human rights are the guiding star of all the union's initiatives. as the european union and as the european parliament, we have a moral and political duty to use our experience to find a peaceful solution that promotes democracy and peace. i hope and trust that this will be the road we travel together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard from the members of this house that the main concern is to ask for a repeat of the referendum in the united kingdom, perhaps as long as the result is the one we want. democracy works in a different way. moreover, when mrs ursula von der leyen was elected by only nine votes, nobody in the chamber asked for a repeat, even though half of this parliament did not agree. i would simply point out that the united kingdom is a net buyer of goods and services from the union. what does it mean to penalise the united kingdom? who will we sell our cars to next, who will we sell our foodstuffs to next, who will we sell our machinery to next? so let us try to agree but above all let us try to come together in a proactive way. when the banking system was to be supported, meetings were held even at night and a solution was found immediately. why is there no solution to the united kingdom? i propose to all colleagues... (the president cut off the speaker)
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very disappointed by the programme of president von der leyen, who, although a doctor like myself, has not mentioned any commitment to issues such as the review of the pharmaceutical package, the fate of the hta and the directive on crossborder healthcare. yet the pole star of us doctors should be the well-being of our citizens. i hope at least his cancer ad has a following. it is a challenge on which the life expectancy of many people depends and it requires the utmost commitment to prevention, diagnosis and treatment. i would like to focus today on a subject that affects a quarter of all cancer patients in europe: the rare cancers. i'm thinking, for example, of rare cancers from childhood, so medical knowledge is new and under-shared and diagnosis is complicated. in europe, the tools to meet this challenge exist. the iarc has recently issued recommendations to member states. on behalf of the italian citizens and patients, i would ask the commission to implement these recommendations as soon as possible and the government of my country to implement them and to make the ern networks operational. if we want to save lives, let's get to work!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are discussing today is of particular importance for the health of all europeans and requires a strong response and concerted action by the groups. it is scientifically proven that the development of cancer diseases depends largely on the direct correlation between the environment, diet and man. as a result, we can no longer ignore the devastating effects of the substances in our food and the air we breathe. the fight against cancer can only be tackled by a substantial, not just formal, environmental battle, and by providing relentless support for research into targeted therapies, such as biological drugs, the use of which has been shown to be more effective and less toxic than chemotherapeutic drugs, which are sometimes used inadequately, as i have often seen in my experience as a doctor. we have been asked by our citizens to protect and guarantee their fundamental right to health: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cancer is the leading cause of death in a growing number of european countries, and breast cancer alone accounts for over 48 000 new cases in italy each year. despite the remarkable progress made in research, prevention is still the only effective weapon we have to defeat cancer. we have heard of president von der leyen's plans and are now awaiting the facts. europe must continue to promote the development of collaboration between specialised and excellent networks to improve the quality of diagnosis, care services and facilitate multidisciplinary cooperation. but above all, there is a need for greater coordination between member states, because there are still too many differences in access to screening and treatment, both between different states and sometimes between regions within a single country. the causes of the disease must also be addressed: in sicily, in the industrial centres of gela, milazzo and priolo, the scientific data are in fact well beyond the alert level and are thresholds which we can no longer accept. we must also invest in the training of health workers and establish in every urban ward a centre not only for prevention and information but also for the psychological support of those who have been affected by the disease. the central role, alongside research, must be played by the humanization of care.
madam president, we are debating now the budget of the european union for the year 2020. this has two particularities: firstly, it is the last year of the current mff, and secondly, it is the first year after the european elections. being the last year of the current mff means that money is finally flowing to member states. it means that we need to pay many bills, and this is why my kind request to the council is we have to make sure that the union is equipped with enough resources that we are able to pay our bills. there is no worse signal that we can give to the beneficiaries, to the people, to the cities, to the villages, to the smes of europe, than being a union not capable of paying its bills. it’s not possible that, at the beginning of the mff, we need to put pressure on you to finally absorb the money which you deserve. in the end, we need to put pressure on you to finally pay the bills. secondly, being the first year after the european elections means that we need to hear the voice of the people who were voting. the participation rate was higher than it was five years ago and young people went to vote. we cannot tell young people that we have less money to tackle youth unemployment as the council proposes to cut by eur 116 million the amounts allocated to preventing youth unemployment. we cannot tell young people that there is less money for tackling climate change, because they care about the future of their planet. we cannot tell them that we cannot finance erasmus properly. we cannot tell farmers who went out to vote that there is less money. let’s work together, members of parliament, commission and council, to make sure that we identify the right priorities, allocate enough resources and make sure that the money is well spent.
madam president, budget decisions are the core of political action. the allocation of financial resources is not a technical and bureaucratic exercise, but it is the way the european union answers the needs and requirements of the 500 million eu citizens. we, as the european parliament, have to be very ambitious. we do not have to be afraid, in a period of crisis, of flying high – the more the economic crises throw us down, the more we have to be high-flyers. we do not only have to ask to restore the budget initially proposed by the commission, but we have to increase it. the proposal made by the s&d group of eur 3.4 billion is absolutely acceptable. in particular, all the financial targets related to climate change have to be strongly defended and promoted in the 2020 budget. secondly, the youth guarantee has to be strengthened and permanently included in the european social fund plus (esf+). thirdly, neighbourhood policies, especially in the mediterranean area, are fundamental and have to be reaffirmed in order to keep on with our values of solidarity and inclusion. as shadow rapporteur, i have dealt with the european agencies, and it is important to increase both the funding and the staff of the agencies whose action positively affects environmental policies, labour policies and migration policies. we are facing a crossroads. europe must be a green and social europe, or nothing at all. please do not let us miss this opportunity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as every year the council has presented a series of budget cuts proposed by the commission on a basis which, frankly, is difficult for us to understand. the cuts should not penalise programmes that bring economic, social and environmental added value to the union. on the contrary, the council should financially support the policy choices it promotes, such as innovation and the fight against unemployment. instead, as always, the key programmes for the future of the european union are being cut: i am referring to the cuts you have proposed to the cap, and therefore to the agricultural sector, or to the reduction of the 60 million euro in funds for the revision of the dublin regulation, or to the zeroing of the refinancing of the instrument to support youth unemployment. you see, more than just linear cuts we need a real rationalisation of resources to concentrate spending on the crucial sectors and thus boost the real economy. that is why we welcomed the cut in administrative expenditure of eur 55 million, which was always proposed by the council, because that is where the waste is. this is the line we intend to take forward and through our amendments to the 2020 budget we have asked the union to cut waste and maximize wages. we want a more efficient europe, one that does not waste and that has more growth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is one of the most important items in the general budget of the european union, along with the cap. cohesion policy is based directly on the treaties and aims to reduce the gap between the different regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions. to date, together with the cap, it is the only concrete instrument of the european union capable of achieving real results in terms of increasing employment, growth and competitiveness. however, the commission and the council are increasingly proposing cuts in these parts of the budget either to divert funds to other uses or, today, for the bailout in the event of a no-deal brexit. what parliament has been asking for a long time is that there should be no cuts in this area and that work should be done to ensure and improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of programmes and projects. i personally hope that the introduction, also in this area, of ever more stringent conditionality instruments will be stopped, a mere pretext for exerting undue pressure on the governments of the member states and imposing on them fiscal policies which are contrary to the will of the citizens, with counterproductive results in relation to the objectives of economic and social cohesion. i therefore ask everyone to work together to ensure that the 2020 budget is adequate to the economic and social objectives of this union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the appropriations for programmes to support infrastructure, enterprises, research and innovation are strategic. however, i admit that i am surprised to see that the commission's proposal for 2020 provides for a number of increases which would probably put the finances of net contributors, such as italy, in even more difficulty. we are nearing the end of the financial programming period and the performance of these instruments so far still raises too many questions. the appropriations must not be just pharaonic, but must deal with the problems affecting our productive realities in a methodical way. we are talking about the procedures for accessing commission calls for tenders, which are out of reach of the smaller entities, even though they are the ones who need them most. in italy and in europe there are examples of excellence which are often met with requirements which are impossible to meet, and i would therefore like the commission to take these criticisms into account, unless the intention is to exclude the smaller entities from the start and to allocate resources exclusively to the usual giants, as is too often the case.
for the verts/ale group the president, the commissioner, the minister, colleagues. never again will i wish to say these words in memory of the molotov-ribbentrop pact signed eighty years ago, on 23 august, between communist russia and nazi germany. the representatives of these two criminal ideologies then decided what the future of sovereign states would be and opened the way to mass killings, genocide, deportations. finally, for some european countries, it meant decades of occupation. to prevent history from repeating itself, more than memory is required. we must be active and expose attempts to dominate, to subvert the free will of others, to restrict freedoms. the european union has long been a guarantor of stability. i hope it stays that way. the peace process was achieved through close cooperation and the equal participation of each member state in the decision-making process. the molotov-ribbentrop pact will not be repeated if we continue to make decisions by all of us, and not in closed offices, in secret conferences, trying to benefit only a particular group or one country. the pact will not be renewed unless we are ruthless in the face of aggression, separatism and terrorism, or the spread of disinformation to create mass unrest. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, 80 years ago, on 23 august 1939, the soviet union and nazi germany signed the molotov-ribbentrop pact, which paved the way for the outbreak of the second world war. the atrocities committed by the two totalitarian systems of communism and nazism must never be forgotten. this duty of memory weighs particularly heavily on europe, the continent which gave birth to them. we must pass on the memory of the horrors of the past to prevent them from happening again. i would, however, caution the european parliament against the temptation to use them as an instrument to attack today's russia. russia has cut ties with the soviet union since 1991 and has become a respectable state, which deserves to be treated as a partner rather than an enemy. finally, i would caution the european parliament against another temptation to make a nasty amalgam of the nazis of yesterday and the populists of today. the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union. but we will not be weak, we will continue to fight against immigration propaganda, especially when it is embodied, as in france, in a 32-page booklet distributed to schoolchildren.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the idea of today's debate and resolution was born on the 80th anniversary of the madness of the pact, the terrible molotov-ribbentrop pact, between nazi germany and soviet russia. it was created in vilnius during a conference organized under the auspices of the former president of lithuania valdas adamkus. today, after two hours of difficult negotiations, we were able to overcome political divisions and agree on a joint draft resolution. it is a beacon of hope that the european parliament, that europe is capable of a common memory, of describing historical events, of drawing conclusions, of paying tribute to all the victims of the great totalitarianisms and other dictatorships, but also of paying special tribute to those heroes who stood up against terrible regimes, also those who in our part of the world, in central and eastern europe, stood up against two regimes, and in the light of these facts we would like to propose the establishment of a holiday on 25 may, on the anniversary of the execution of one of these heroes, rotmistr witold pilecki.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what our forefathers experienced on 23 august 1939 was the political low point in recent european history, when two dictators with essentially opposing ideologies united with a dash on the map to the detriment of all other peoples in europe. we know the immediate result: eight days later, the german empire invaded poland, and 80 years ago yesterday, the soviet union did the same. what happened next is well known. the will to 'never again' could only be expressed in peace and freedom, with democracy and reconciliation, in the western part of europe at first. i am grateful, as a national of one of the two countries that were then parties to the treaty, that the other european peoples have accepted us back into their community - because, i think, we have been credibly converted. this germany, embedded in the eu and nato, is something no one needs to fear anymore. the people of russia, who were victims of their own dictatorship and the german attack, deserved that the other peoples of europe should no longer be afraid of today's russia. unfortunately, the current russian policy and its leadership do not give any reason to hope that we can expect that soon. that is why we must stand together as democracies in europe, remembering what happened and how it could have happened.
madam president, the report is important for the future of europe. the authors of the resolution we are discussing rightly emphasized this. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the best way to do this is to make sure that we have historically established facts, irrefutable facts that could have been recorded in history. history is important, and the duty of memory must be gradually replaced by the duty of history. this leads me to repeat a request that i have had the opportunity to make on many occasions, including in this parliament: when will we finally get the nuremberg documents translated into all the working languages of the european union? this will feed into history and civics classes in our schools, thereby giving young people access to the atrocities that may have occurred in the past.
madam president, i wanted to talk about communism, fascism and nazism, but i couldn't get past that, mrs. tuppurainen and mr. avramopoulos, when you say that we are the only generation that has not experienced war. gentlemen, croatia was not a member of the european union in 1991, but it was and remained a part of europe. it offends me that you forget the serb-chechen aggression against croatia, with the help of the yugoslav army, then the third military power in europe. gentlemen, in defending our freedom and independence, 8257 croatian defenders died, 5657 civilians, among them many children. we're still looking for somewhere around 1,200 missing people, not to mention billions and billions of euros of damage done in the war. for a small country of 4.3 million people, this is a great tragedy, partly due to the inertia of the european union, so i expected you to mention this war imposed on croatia in 1991, at least in passing.
i have to say, madam president, in order to explain to the younger generation how today came to be and to give them the tools to shape tomorrow, we must remember yesterday. without knowledge of the cruel world wars which have brought death, misery and destruction upon us all, of the division of europe by the iron curtain, but also without an understanding of the commonalities between the peoples of europe which we find in culture, it is impossible to understand the meaning of our community of states. but remembering is only possible if we protect our cultural heritage, if we promote memorials, if we have exhibitions that allow for remembering, and if we offer high-quality history, culture, music and art education in our schools. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro. the reductions which the council has unfortunately made in these areas speak a different language. it is also unacceptable to me that the commission president-elect does not mention the terms culture and education in any of the titles of future commissioners - and this is the first time in 20 years. this must be changed urgently. i expect the new commission to give more, not less, importance to these policy areas. culture and education must no longer be allowed to exist in the shadows, because without them, in the end, memory is impossible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on september 1, 1939, europe entered perhaps its most horrible and inhuman period, culminating in the atrocities of the holocaust, in which millions of innocent people - sinti, jews, roma, disabled people, jehovah's witnesses, homosexuals - were brutally murdered by the nazis. a date in this period, when the national socialist beasts brutally murdered our people, is particularly memorable to the victims and their survivors: may 16, 1944. on this day the last sinti and roma in auschwitz were to be murdered. but the women and children fought desperately against the nazis, armed with shovels and sticks, and defended their lives. their rebellion temporarily delayed their assassination, which took place on august 2. may 16th is to be a reminder of this uprising against racial madness and national socialism so that such a thing never happens again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the theme of a shared european memory - especially today, 80 years after the signing of the molotov-ribbentrop pact and 30 years after the fall of the iron curtain - is a fundamental value if young people are to never forget the tragic consequences of the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century and are to be able to shape the present day by day, with a full awareness of our freedoms. however, the right commitment to transmitting common values and perspectives cannot and must not become the instrument of propaganda aimed at creating a globalised and standardized gray humanity. the real greatness of europe lies in its identities, its bells and the full respect between institutions, local authorities and families. the 'duty of memory' is first of all to defend our christian roots and to affirm that they are the main foundation of our tolerance and certainly not an obstacle to it. the 'duty of memory' is above all to defend the frontiers of our europe against the vicious immigration policies which seek to exploit individuals rather than protect them. the 'duty of memory' is also for my country to finally render full justice to the victims of the phobias.
madam president! i would like to point out that we are meeting one day after the 80th anniversary of the day the molotov-ribbentrop pact came into force. it was then that the soviet union attacked poland, which had been attacked by nazi germany. the soviet union said it was protecting the belarusian, ukrainian populations. that protection was the export of millions of people to the concentration camps in siberia, that protection was the terror. ladies and gentlemen, nazism is over. the soviet union is gone, but these practices remain. look at georgia, please. look at the crimea. look at eastern ukraine. the bullets are still whizzing in there today. we must draw lessons from these events for the future of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to hear that some people want to use this debate to turn it into a pointless quarrel about which authoritarian regime was more brutal or more totalitarian. the day of remembrance cannot and must not be used, ladies and gentlemen, to divide us over the condemnation of the past: we must always stand together to protect the future. the memory of the millions of victims of totalitarianism is an antidote for the new generations who have not imprinted on their minds or engraved on their skin the horrors of the last century. to lose oneself in a sterile clash over which regime has been more atrocious is not only not helpful but is absolutely harmful and deleterious for the young, who are only confused and distracted from the real danger: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. with one goal: to achieve absolute power, whatever the cost, even to eliminate those who do not want to conform to their idea of society. what prepares modern men so well for totalitarian rule is alienation, said the philosopher hannah arendt, who is never quoted enough. to save the new generations of europeans from violence, war and injustice, we must preserve at all costs the memory of those who survived. but it's not enough to remember: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the day we hesitate, colleagues, we will have already lost.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the value of memory is essential to strengthening the european project and to bet on the future of europe, especially at a time like this, marked today by new neo-nationalist impulses and also by attempts - as was discussed yesterday in this house - to call into question european democracy through actions and interference from outside forces. in fact, to discuss memory in a place of such extraordinary relevance to world democracy as this is to reflect on its timeliness. i therefore want to hear the words of an extraordinary woman, liliana segre, a holocaust survivor, an auschwitz survivor and now a senator for life in italy, who is determined to combat racism and neo-nationalism and to defend our common home: "cultivating memory", says segre, "is still a valuable antidote to indifference and helps us, in a world so full of injustice and suffering, to remember that each of us has a conscience and can use it".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately erdoğan has accustomed us to very serious actions, such as the removal of newly democratically elected mayors, when the result was not congenial to him, especially if they were kurds or close to the kurds, in the south east region in particular, proving once again that voting for him is nothing but a sham of a democracy that is partly no longer there. how can you call a democracy one in which an opposition leader, selahattin demirtaş, has been in prison for almost three years for political reasons and is not allowed to be visited by mps like me and other colleagues, as we tried to do with a mission in 2016? for these and many other reasons, in the work on the financial instruments of the european union in recent years we have sent very strong signals to ankara, withdrawing european funds precisely from the areas affected by an authoritarian removal of mayors, drastically cutting the resources allocated to the country as a candidate for membership, redirecting those remaining towards civil society that fights every day for fundamental rights and freedoms. erdoğan is coming to terms with this: we will never stop opposing his authoritarianism, we will support the turkish society that is still alive and demanding a big change. we're not turning our backs on her.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as history teaches us, turkey has never been, is not and will never be europe. today turkey is a country of 80 million muslims, where democracy, freedom and human rights are daily violated by erdoğan's islamist dictatorship. in recent years europe has given billions of euros to turkey, favouring a country which is against european democracy, against our values and against our freedom. i remind you that dictator erdoğan has repeatedly threatened to bring religious wars into our countries and into our cities. it is time to put an end to this false goodwill, ladies and gentlemen. we must have the courage to say it loud and clear: the european union must immediately, immediately and forever stop the negotiations for turkey's accession to europe.
mr president, the removal of the three kurdish mayors raises a fundamental question that we all must answer: does turkey today have a democratic government? the answer was given yesterday before the european court of human rights, regardless of your views. it was given in a legally substantiated opinion by the competent commissioner for human rights of the council of europe, who found that there is a systematic failure in turkey to provide an independent and impartial justice. the question for us is this: can a country use justice as a tool of government and at the same time be a democracy? so the erdogan regime, which uses the judiciary as a tool, is the same one that is intervening in bulgaria, in bosnia, but unfortunately also in my country, in the occupied northern part of cyprus, which it has recently even tried to islamise in a brutal way. the question for us, mr president, is: will we pass another resolution or will we proceed with measures which will have costs?
mr president, we are spectators in the same play: turkey is provoking and violently attacking every notion of respect for human rights and european values, and we as europe are engaged in theoretical declarations and resolutions, without turkey complying with our appeals. what are the effects of these policies? replace by administrative decisions democratically elected mayors with the usual charge of supporting terrorism and replace them with state bodies. to continue the illegal detention of hdp leader selahattin demirtaş for the past three years. jail journalists and criminalize any undesirable political activity. to invade the eez of a member state of the european union and threaten to colonize the city of famagusta.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear to everyone, and this debate has shown that turkey has been undergoing a tremendous authoritarian revolution in recent years. the removal of the three hdp mayors of diyarbakır, mardin and van is unfortunately only the latest episode in the battle that the turkish government is waging against the main sources of internal dissent: academics, lawyers, human rights defenders, political opponents, elected members of parliament and local institutions, including many citizens of the islamic faith. all of them uncomfortable and conflicted. the remainder of a great and important country is therefore experiencing a very worrying democratic and civil crisis, also considering the geopolitical role that turkey plays at international level. a crisis that europe and its diplomacy cannot ignore. and in this context, we must also ask ourselves whether it is possible to continue to outsource the management of a part of our borders, entrusting turkey with the de facto management of a part of the refugee problem without any guarantee of humanity or respect for human rights.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps not everyone knows that women in iran, until the 1970s, were like us, dressed like us and had access to education exactly like us. then at some point in 1979, the regime came, the islamic republic was created, and in the name of religion, women's rights were totally trampled, and they were taken back to the middle ages. consider that the women's national basketball, soccer, or volleyball teams now play with the veil. then someone will tell you that the veil is a choice, but it is not! the veil is oppression, it is subjugation, women do not want to wear the veil, they do not want to cover themselves. we are firmly on the side of the activists who, on a daily basis, work to defend rights and shout what is happening, try in some way to combat the subjugation of women in those countries. europe, i must say, has too often, out of goodwill or even a little fear, remained silent, has not intervened in all those islamic countries which are constantly subjugating women's rights. i think we cannot turn our heads, we must fight for women and we cannot remain silent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, discrimination, intimidation and repression against women in iran have increased since iranian women decided to spread the abuse of the so-called moral police, the arrests, the abuse and the beatings they suffer every day, all over the world via the internet. europe, which is founded on the values of freedom and responsibility, cannot accept these violations of human rights by an archaic and hypocritical political system which uses the islamic religion to impose its power. this fanaticism is also spreading in european cities the subculture of the abuse of women, with the complicity of a short-sighted left-wing politician who fights for the right to the veil in europe as if it were a privilege rather than an imposition. we cannot accept the alibi of cultural diversity. the preservation of our civilized values is a necessary act. europe's solidarity with iranian women must therefore extend to all muslim women in the west, because their freedom is the freedom and security of our future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the next european council will deal, among other things, with the latest developments in foreign policy, i would strongly suggest that very careful assessments be made of turkey, of its behaviour, of its role in the negotiations with the european union. i am referring to the naval raid on cypriot territorial waters, which is yet another violation of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. at this point, given that the july council imposed certain sanctions, which the turkish foreign minister also called irrelevant, i wonder whether the european council, in view of the manifest inadequacy of the measures applied so far and in view of the lack of respect shown by turkey towards the union, intends to suspend all financial assistance instruments which, for the multiannual financial framework, have exceeded 4 billion. finally, madam president, in view of ankara's open hostility towards the union, i wonder whether we should suspend the accession process once and for all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, compensation and transitional periods are all solutions which do not go to the heart of the problem. we are here tonight because the european commission lost at the wto. we are here tonight because it was planned, you know, we have been waiting for this verdict for two years. the european commission was not able to negotiate and deal with the american counterpart sooner. we are talking about a subject, airbus, for which there are france, germany, great britain and spain. it is not clear why italy should pay as much as the others and for certain sectors even more than others. italy does not care, italy does not take money from airbus, italy does not put money into airbus. but we have already seen that neither malmström, who is not here today, nor her successor, mr hogan, are interested in dealing with this subject. it would be foolish not to think that if our companies have to expose themselves to the markets of third countries in this way, and thus to external system shocks which are not influenced by us, we also owe this to the failure of the internal market of the european union. so we must adopt policies to ensure that our products are also consumed within the european union and that our companies do not have to work only on the markets of third countries. this european commission cannot, for various reasons, get our products to go to russia, the united states and china. try opening a free trade deal with mars and maybe they'll have a little better luck.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these years we have seen everything: hormone-laced meat, harmful gm foods and all kinds of other crap. to these, of course, must be added all the products covered by the tariff: the fake parmigiano, the fake sausages, the fake mozzarella from dubious sources. the economic advantage of a few risks the food health of all. i think that food safety and the cultivation of quality products must always be a priority, especially for us here in europe and for this mandate. but i think it is absurd that the new commission should be handling the matter in this way. in general, i do not think it is right that 29 people in a room should decide for more than 500 million citizens. what's going on? what's going on? parliament says no to a gmo, the envi committee says no, the committee of experts of the member states does not produce any opinion and what happens at the end? the commission does not care and the gmo continues to be used in an opaque way. in practice, a bureaucrat in brussels, locked up in an office of a directorate-general for agriculture or health, decides for everyone. this is ridiculous!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against gmos is not only a health and environmental battle, but also an ethical one, my dear colleague. the preservation of typical products from traditional and historical crops will, on the one hand, preserve biodiversity and, on the other, give the agricultural and rural world a new economic energy and source of income. the cultivation of gm crops is also promoting the development of industrial agriculture, based on monocultures, where living species are disappearing at a rate a thousand times faster than the natural rate. the european parliament in the last legislature - we said that - approved some 36 objections to gmos and yet the commission continues to allow them, even though it has no obligation to do so. the new european commission, which is active in the green deal, will only demonstrate its commitment by taking concrete action if it listens to this parliament right away, by not allowing the import of products containing gmos which would, as we have said, lead to more use of herbicides and therefore more residues in the crop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are increasing calls for turkey to cease its brutal aggression against syria, a country which has already suffered greatly and which certainly cannot suffer any more. we expect a firm verdict. the id group is calling for strong condemnation of the european union, which has even funded erdogan's government with european taxpayers' money in an attempt, alas in vain, to protect those syrian refugees fleeing isis and the civil war. today, it is probably also thanks to that money that turkey can bomb syria. the european union is too often driven by naive optimism, and turkey is the emblem of that. it is clear that something profound needs to be revised in the european project. but the truth is that today we are faced with a complex international situation, with our hands tied, because the european union of that time accepted turkey's application for membership with a light heart, instead of rejecting it. we should have rejected it then, mr president, to avoid this tragic situation.
mr president, i would like to welcome the minister and the commissioner to parliament. we are debating today the next multiannual financial framework at a very important moment in time, and we are reconfirming the position of parliament in light of the results of the european elections. we have seen people come out and vote in large numbers, expecting europe to do more – students, researchers, farmers, people in the cities and in the villages, people who expect more security, and people who expect us to innovate, to research more and better deliver on digital, and to tackle climate change – and it is our duty to listen to them and to deliver it to them. people expect more, and we should do more. my first message to you, minister, is that we cannot do more with much less. in the previous mff, the philosophy was that if we need to do something new, if we need to allocate money for something, we take it away from something else. efsi was created, but the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 suffered, and examples can continue. this philosophy has to end. new priorities have to be financed with new resources. otherwise, we need to tell students that there are fewer erasmus scholarships, and farmers that the subsidies are smaller. we should not do that. secondly, minister, my question to you is this: when and what are you ready to negotiate with parliament? what we have seen so far from the finnish presidency is too little, and it is too weak. we need political commitment at the highest level now. parliament will, with a large majority, adopt its position now. we need to sit down, and it’s your responsibility to come and talk to parliament. otherwise – and i have to say it very clearly – the council will be blamed by the beneficiaries of europe for us not being able to finance them on 1 january 2021.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a general premise and two very quick points. the premise is that the resolution is very good. the idea of a strong reaffirmation of parliament's position and the ambition to have a bold budget for the next seven years is to be welcomed. paragraph 5 is very good, introducing the revision of own resources as a strategic objective. the two points. it is very important to link the revenue side with the expenditure side in any budget, and commissioner hahn said that very positively at the hearing. budgetary policy is not a mere bureaucratic exercise, it is not a mathematical test, it is the way we allocate resources to respond to the problems of citizens, it is the heart of the functioning of our democracies, without which democracies cannot stand. that is why, if the objectives are ambitious - ecological transition, youth employment, research, structural funds - we must link up revenue that is genuinely european. that's the first point. second point: it takes a cultural change, a leap forward. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of income support policies by many countries, such as italy, is already having a real impact on the weaker sections of the population, but the levels of poverty and the sharpening of economic inequality remain unacceptable. the austerity policies have hit those who are already in difficulty the hardest, and amongst them i would like to pay particular attention to people with disabilities. the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities has noted with deep concern the negative impact of austerity restrictions on decent living standards, stressing the urgency of ending these restrictive measures to ensure a better quality of life for persons with disabilities. my commitment will be constant and will be in the direction of a social protection plan, which fully guarantees a decent standard of living and above all respects their right to difference and not equality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done here, which at the very beginning of this parliamentary term makes it clear that we want to continue courageously in the next five years on the path that jean-claude juncker started five years ago. i do not want to conceal the fact that my group has a different view on the instrument of unemployment insurance and that my own delegation - the german delegation - is critical of it. i do not want to hide the fact that in my group we are very critical of further, even more radical instruments. nevertheless, we shall be voting in favour of this report today because the fight against youth unemployment, for fair working conditions and against poverty in the european union is something which is, of course, deeply rooted in the dna of the epp. we will be debating details here for the next five years - we have to - but we will not be debating one thing: direction. it is clear to our group and it is clear to me.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report is absolutely positive, good and effective. it highlights the still worrying features of the european labour market, but at the same time it strongly confirms the 75% target as an average employment rate. it is not clear why fundamental innovative measures are being called into question, such as the supplementary scheme for combating unemployment for many european citizens, which, by the way, ursula von der leyen has already introduced in her first 100 days. i even hear some people questioning the need for a financial instrument for external shocks and for business crises. we need more europe, a europe of work, a social europe. we need to go back to the amsterdam strategy, the european employment strategy of 1997, because europe cannot be just economic, but must be a europe of work and social.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think we can support this report which says everything and the opposite of everything. the right call for investment in social policy, employment and training is countered by - i read paragraph 2 - 'the commission putting the necessary pressure on the member states to implement the country recommendations', which are nothing but austerity policies that lead to cuts in social welfare, essential services, the inclusion of the least and the disadvantaged. this is a major political contradiction which is no longer acceptable in the context of european policies. it is not enough to talk about minimum wages and youth unemployment, if we do not allow investment in growth, welfare and the quality of life of people. we have tabled amendments in committee, many of which have been accepted, but unfortunately they have not been sufficient to change the liberal and rigorous stance that the european citizens, by their vote, have asked us to erase in favour of development, solidarity and opportunities for all. the five star movement therefore declares its abstention from this report which continues to ignore the needs and expectations of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 october i shall be speaking on the recall of rules 157 and 158 of the rules of procedure for the debate on wednesday morning. on october 12 evrin khalaf was murdered in the suv she was traveling on. evrin khalaf was the secretary general of the syrian future party, a well-known women's rights activist in the region and a promoter of a peace project among the minorities present. government intelligence has not yet clearly identified who was responsible for the execution, although suspects fall under ahrar al-sharqiya, an islamist rebel group that broke away from the al-nusra terrorist group, now part of the so-called syrian national army, which was born under the aegis of ankara. my proposal to you, mr president, while i am aware that the time is running out, and given the political importance of this act, is to award evrin khalaf the sakharov prize for 2019, keeping this year's list frozen for 2020. it would be a significant act for this parliament, an act of amends for an overly indulgent attitude of this parliament towards turkey, and a recognition for those who have sacrificed their lives for rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the author of the halle incident has rightly been called a madman, but it is a sad fact that unjustified hostility towards the state of israel is growing. only a few months ago, right here in strasbourg, israeli flags were banned from entering the stadium. in italy, it has happened several times that, during the celebrations of april 25, the initials of the extreme left prevented the jewish brigade from participating, in the name of hatred against the state of israel. we have no more bombings and attacks of islamic origin in the name of anti-zionism. anti-semitism in europe has different ideological backgrounds, but they are equally reprehensible. we are prisoners of bigotry and we are tired of being so. perhaps we should learn from the state of israel, which, despite living for years with terrorism, has never lowered its head, has not renounced its roots, its traditions, its system of values, as europe has too often done. terrorism must be fought every day with every means, just as israel teaches us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all very close to the jewish community in germany. it is a serious incident, to be condemned absolutely, and we are against all kinds of violence and crime of a racist or religious nature. and that is why i wonder how europe can remain silent about other incidents in recent weeks. in early october in paris, a man killed three police officers and a civil servant with a knife. he was an islamic extremist and he's under investigation for terrorism. same thing in manchester: a man stabbed five people in a shopping mall. we're also investigating terrorism here. in milan, my hometown, in mid-september, an illegal immigrant stabbed a soldier in the throat, shouting "allah akbar". so why is there no mention of the many violent cases of anti-semitism in france? why does europe not discuss the danger of terrorism, of islamic fundamentalism in many european cities, of islamic ghettos where fundamentalism is nesting? why is there no mention of the danger of the return of isis terrorists to europe, also because of the turkish intervention in syria, perhaps with boats in the middle of the sea? i would like europe to take care of that too. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr polčák, in terms of political culture, i think that it is more important than words to judge the deeds of individuals, and that is precisely why i make no distinction when we talk about terrorism. terrorism has no colour, but i want europe to stop talking and start acting.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we first of all express our sympathy to the families of the victims and to the people affected by this tragedy, which has certainly affected spain, portugal and other regions of our continent. i would remind you that just a year ago, the storm vaia caused damage in italy amounting to over 6 billion euros and millions of trees were cut down. the european union then granted 247 million from the solidarity fund. we cannot fail to recognize that a major climate change is taking place, generating more and more intense and extreme weather events. and then we cannot help but point out that this climate change is partly conditioned by the anthropological development of global warming and therefore pollution. we hope that the commitments made by the future european commission, the member states and this parliament on the green deal can be put into practice as soon as possible and, above all, that they can produce the expected results. but the first expected results, which will also have an effect on climate effects, will perhaps take decades. in the meantime, extreme events will continue and perhaps be even more intense than they are today. the situation is further aggravated by the high hydrogeological risk to which some areas are exposed, the lack of maintenance and the cementation. after the mourning, we think of the damage and therefore of the extraordinary and solidarity funds, which are right, but they cannot be enough. the member states, with the support of the union, must develop far-reaching projects to promote the rebuilding of natural habitats in favour of cementation and to strengthen river banks and to combat wherever there is abuse, which then obviously turns into a tragedy, as in this case. a genuine hydrogeological plan to deal with events which, unfortunately, will not be extraordinary for decades to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 october the leader of the syrian future party, hevrin kalaf, 35, was killed in an ambush and her body was molested by her cowardly murderers, whose images were broadcast around the world as a warning to all women who do not want to look down. hevrin kalaf was a civil engineer and spent her short life fighting for women's rights, but above all working for peaceful coexistence between kurds, christian syrians and arabs, which is obviously too much for a woman. its weapons of dialogue and courage have annoyed the criminal forces who want to restore a fanatical and murderous islamic state in syria. europe cannot stand by and watch this horror, all funding to ankara must be stopped immediately and all prospects of turkey joining the european union must be blocked. we must stop the genocide of the kurdish people and the annihilation of the only army that has fought islamic terrorism hand in hand. the european union is not only a military force, but also a military force, an army in which many women like hevrin are fighting, who, together with their men, have been, and let us not forget, the only bulwark against the return of islamic terrorists to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy the national media have portrayed the malta summit on migrants on 23 september as an important step towards the redistribution of migrants in europe. what happened to the malta agreement of 23 september? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my view, what matters is not redistributing migrants, but not letting them arrive. the policy of "common evil half joy" does not belong to us. redistributing migrants without any control means redistributing potential terrorists as well. there are 1.2 billion people in africa, how can we think of redistributing all those who would like to come to europe? europe has a duty to defend its borders. it owes this to its culture, its christian roots and its value system. the summit in malta should have tried to help those countries whose borders are most exposed to migratory waves and to close their ports and patrol their borders, as our minister of the interior, matteo salvini, has taught the whole of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some people have said that this is a debate we have already seen, and it is true, because if we have lost two years before brexit can finally be implemented, it is partly because of what has happened in britain, but above all because of those in brussels who thought it was a joke, that the british people did not really want to leave this crazy european union. the truth is the opposite. the truth is the opposite and so we finally have an agreement, we'll see if it's satisfactory or not. we'll see how much and what it brings. but this is a european union which, compared to what is happening in the rest of the world, if it is, let us say, falling on its head, is not a protagonist. but then he uses international crises for his own benefit. for example, he has used the scottish question to destabilize the united kingdom and he has totally ignored the catalan question. these are some examples of cases like brexit, which i think more will follow in the coming years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's conclusions on climate change leave much to be desired. as always, ideological approaches have been used which do not solve any kind of problem. we are seeing it in these hours in the provinces of verbania in the north of piedmont, in the province of alessandria in the centre of piedmont, where there are deaths, where there are floods, landslides, landslides and road closures. it's not by taxing that you solve the climate change problem, but by allowing, for example, local administrators to intervene without being put in jail or accused of defacing the land. one last question: we must not allow the solidarity fund, as proposed by the commission and the council, to be used for what it is not intended to be used for, namely for any hypothetical, ghostly damage caused by brexit. we leave the solidarity fund for natural disasters, which unfortunately continue to happen and will continue to happen more and more often.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. this is the last year of this perspective, and for the european parliament the last year of this perspective is important because it sets the direction for the next perspective. what we do in 2020 will have a big impact on how we do things after 2020. today we have three proposals on the table: the european commission, the council and the parliament. they differ fundamentally, not just in terms of numbers, because we don't want to talk about the size of the budget. we want to talk about what's in it, what we want to spend money on, how much it's going to cost, and so we're making a proposal that is about action, not numbers. we have the impression that the council's work is more accounting, technical, financial. parliament is thinking about what we want to spend money on, what is needed, what will not only be needed in 2020, but what will be needed in 2021 and beyond. and that's why this discussion is so important to us, because it's going to be a multi-year discussion, not just a 2020. and on this issue, as co-decision makers, we're going to be very tough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are two pillars of the general budget which we are about to approve, on the one hand, employment, growth and the social dimension, and on the other, the environment and the fight against climate change. the common thread that unites these two great objectives is certainly the younger generation. they are the ones who have asked us to take exceptional action on climate change, and they are the ones who need measures and tools to enter the labour market, to grow, to train, to be able to see their talents and skills fulfilled. that is why we socialists are pleased that the additional 363 million requested by parliament has been allocated to the youth guarantee, a very important instrument for training and access to the labour market. five million young people in europe are included in this tool every year. three and a half million find an opportunity to access their future. we go forward like this, we look at a budget that is the photograph of the younger generations and it is those who look up to us, who can really have a concrete hope for their future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate we are dealing with budget lines and how european taxpayers' money will be used in the coming years. the european commission is a voice of solidarity and concern for the social inclusion of disabled people. well, the figures say otherwise. for example, in the case of the erasmus programme, attention should be paid to percentages rather than to figures per se. the erasmus programme has a budget of eur 14,7 billion for the period 2014-2020, with eur 264,6 million for the social inclusion of disabled people through sport, i.e. a percentage of 1,8% of the overall budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline. the erasmus budget provides for a budget of €30 billion, with €550 million for sport. now, if i do a quick calculation, it turns out that the percentage devoted to sport and the social inclusion of disabled people through sport remains at 1.8% of the total budget. the european citizens should know that the european commission is only in words and not in deeds. this is not a grant, but it's just a handout.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more cuts in waste, more investment for the citizens. these are the watchwords for a 2020 budget that uses european resources effectively. the five star movement strongly supports the restoration of funds for our farmers, for research and for small and mediumsized enterprises. we must therefore look to the future. that is why we would have preferred greater courage in identifying those programmes which work and those which do not benefit the citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i 'm often asked: where do we find the money? we are cutting administrative costs, renegotiating the rents of the premises and reducing the salaries of members of parliament and commissioners. finally, i would like to say this in reference to what is happening in turkey: we are blocking pre-accession funds in response to the aggression against the kurdish people. i remember, the citizens outside are watching us.
madam chairman! in many of our countries there are large numbers of kurds. they have been here for many years, they have citizenship here, they are part of us, and they are our voters. i think that this time we have come to experience heartbreakingly close to what is happening in kurdistan right now. the kurds, of course, like us, have a heart for their families down there. it is not because it is worse when it affects oneself and one's own people than when it affects others, but it is very healthy for us in europe that we see both the enormity of the human disasters in question and the extent of our failures. the other day i received a moving letter from kurdish mothers for peace, who wrote to us: "we want to build a museum of peace, not of war and genocide. and we don't want our children to die anymore. it is often said that the kurds have no friends but the mountains. let's show them they have real friends this time. i hope that the decision we are taking today will help to make things different from what they have been so far. we want to build a museum of peace, not of war and genocide. and we don't want our children to die anymore.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the plight of the kurdish population in syria has exposed a number of european hypocrisy. the first, while the kurds were dying fighting daesh, europe was sitting on its couch watching television, and now it is also said to be worried about the return of the foreign fighters it has reared in its own home. secondly, in the years when turkey was transforming from a secular nation to an islamic sultanate, europe gave 58 billion euros to facilitate its accession to the european union. thirdly, erdogan's threat to unleash the 'refugee bomb' is the result of the european union's decision to outsource the management of its borders to turkey, and this outsourcing cost six billion euros, not a generous effort as commissioner stylianides said a moment ago. so, in conclusion, fine, selective sanctions against erdogan and his clique, but above all, stop turkey's accession to the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, only a hundred years ago the armenian people were being mercilessly slaughtered. today the same executioners are attacking the kurdish people in istanbul, they still crave an empire and it does not matter if innocent blood is shed for this, such as that of hevrin khalaf, a kurdish women's rights leader who was slaughtered in silence all over the world by pro-turkish and islamist militiamen. the dreaded head-cutters, after the turkish invasion of syria are sharpening their mimicry before our doors. erdogan is blackmailing europe with kurdish terrorists in prison, threatening to open the borders, and he does this after having collected six billion euros from europe. this is unacceptable! in the face of all this, while the united states and russia are playing the leading role at international level, europe is mocking, silent and motionless, and it is doing so with the high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, for whom i apologize as an italian. today, those who are not prepared to condemn the turkish regime and take the necessary action against those who continue to want turkey in europe are complicit. no to turkey in europe, now and forever!
madam president, i would first of all like to say that i am in agreement with many of the speeches today condemning, without any reservations, i would say, the turkish offensive in the northern part of syria, which is causing hundreds of thousands of refugees, has certainly caused many victims and represents not only a violation of international law but also of human rights. i must say that the european union and in particular the european council must take more drastic and firm measures against erdoğan's offensive. and i have to say that i am very concerned, even for the similarities with some historical precedents, this erdogan-putin pact. we cannot hand over the fate and destiny of syria to a deal between two autocrats: one, erdogan, and the other, putin. we have seen this more than once in history and we have seen that the result has been a tragic result for the people, but also for world peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all living with anguish and anger the turkish invasion of syria, not a peace operation against terrorism, but a vicious war operation, a crime against humanity. the kurdish people have been betrayed, the international community has shamefully turned its back on them, the putin-erdogan agreement is yet another piece of stone against peace, against freedom, against democracy. it is not enough to restrict the sale of arms, we must have the strength and courage to stop a genuine criminal madness. "hope", pablo neruda wrote, "has two daughters: indignation and courage". the indignation at the reality of things; the courage to change them. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is an important step forward. but then we have to move from words to deeds. i believe that a no-fly zone, an interim army to protect the kurdish people, humanitarian corridors, economic sanctions against the turkish regime are urgently needed. if not now, when?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the kurds, to whom our solidarity is directed, who are in danger. the turkish offensive risks wiping out the christian community that has existed in syria for two millennia and an essential part of its social fabric. the defence of christianity outside and inside the schengen area is an obligation from which the european union cannot evade. europe must play a leading role in defending peace in the middle east and guaranteeing human rights, without bowing to arrogance, blackmail and the explicit threat of being invaded by 3.6 million immigrants. but when someone is filling his mouth with sanctions, he cannot forget that it is the european union that has been financing ankara for years through various channels, such as the instrument for pre-accession assistance, european investment bank financing or contributions in the form of assistance for refugees in turkey. it must be clear now more than ever that the process of turkey's accession to the european union must be stopped. its entry would lead to the islamization of our continent, which would reduce christians to a small persecuted minority, as is the case in syria today. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, erdogan has committed an act of war, an act of aggression. that is the first thing we have to say as the european parliament. that's why the answer has to be very tough. until now, europe has struggled to make itself heard with a single, clear, strong voice. we do not need general condemnations, we need very clear actions. the military intervention of turkey is a path that must be followed by economic and trade sanctions, the arms embargo, measures to prevent the main victims, who are first and foremost the women and men of the kurdish people like hevrin khalaf, from being left alone. so we must immediately take action to provide direct support to the people on the ground, to the kurdish people, to whom we must show great solidarity, who were first used to fight terrorism and then shamelessly discarded. and it is also serious to see erdogan blackmailing europe with the refugees and the refugees. they too must see an immediate end to the conflict and the immediate withdrawal of the turkish army.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists have proposed and have obtained that the main theme of this plenary session be the climate and ecological emergency. emergency, but, you know, the left used to take care of the weakest, the workers, the people. things will have changed, i would have expected the left to have priority discussions on wages, welfare, relocations, but probably the poor are no longer in fashion. today's influencer is greta and with her all those students who are demonstrating to skip school. they're the ones who are dictating the line to all of europe. and the european commission wants to force the whole continent into unrealizable environmental programmes with unrealistic timelines, often useless and in many cases even wrong plans because they have a negative impact on important productive realities and have a cost that ultimately falls on consumers. we all want to protect the environment, but we can no longer afford policies and slogans made up of only taxes and environmental facts. i would also suggest that we review our priorities and emergencies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for the work it has done. the annual report is a very important document for the european parliament, because it facilitates our work and provides many elements for assessing the aspects of european union spending and identifying problems to be solved. the 2018 annual report noted some improvements compared to previous years: firstly, the fact that, in general, the estimated level of error for payments made is continuously decreasing, at 2.6%. this is a step in the right direction. however, the commission must continue to work towards greater transparency in the use of public funds and at the same time step up cooperation for the court of auditors. there are some critical points for heading 3, security and citizenship, and for heading 4, europe's role in the world. the error rate has not yet been detected. this certainly entails a serious lack of transparency and control of expenditure. in some areas, such as cohesion and rural development, but also in specific programmes such as erasmus and horizon 2020, there are still error rates relating to issues that both need to be addressed and resolved as soon as possible. i therefore welcome the increased organisation of controls and performance audits to check whether policies and programmes are being implemented effectively and, in order to ensure that citizens' contributions are being spent properly, i welcome the implementation of all measures to improve the situation in protecting the credibility of the european union and its institutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the ongoing situation in the mediterranean, where lives are lost and the european values that we speak about are being challenged every day, requires us to act. i think the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has had a very difficult task in trying to bring together members of this house on this resolution. but essentially, what he has done is to address both the commission and the member states on some key points, because it is quite concrete in the end: either we do something or we don’t. and we are doing this at the beginning of the new commission, as the commissioner said. so let’s be very clear: we can get around some of these things that would show our humanitarian effort and understand that we have some values here in the mediterranean. we repeatedly called on the commission to issue guidelines specifying which forms of facilitation should not be criminalised. in our resolution, we call on the commission to finally adopt those guidelines by the end of this year. i know the new commission will only take office at the beginning of december, but the asylum package is frozen, as has been said. but there is a lot of work to be done to take this proactive approach. operationally, we need more information and transparency on frontex’s activities at sea, as well as on the funds and material support that are provided by the eu and its member states to the border and coast guards in third countries, including libya, turkey, egypt and morocco. fundamental rights, the principle of non-refoulement and the principle of disembarkation in a place of safety have to be respected. finally, member states should step up their moral and legal obligations to save lives at sea and adopt a proactive approach to search and rescue, making use of all available vessels, and to cooperate and support ngos in their efforts. essentially, the resolution addresses, on the one hand, what the commission can do and what the new commission can do, and then the member states, because for the member states, this blame game, which is simply not demonstrating our values but passing around the blame, will continue to drain our resources, but ultimately it will require us to make difficult decisions: difficult decisions which ultimately will be the right moral decisions in the mediterranean, but also sustainable decisions and proactive ones. this resolution should be supported. my group is asking for the maximum amount of support to show that we have the european values that we want to demonstrate in the mediterranean, and i hope it gains maximum support.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, madam minister, commissioner, i would like to start by saying every life matters. every life matters. and when we’re talking about numbers of people drowning in the mediterranean, we’re talking about individuals – people who came into the world one day, and their parents had hope for them. and those people are now dead at the bottom of the mediterranean. they are people like you and i, so that is something we shouldn’t forget. the second thing i would like to remind us of is that this resolution is on search and rescue. this is not on adopting a comprehensive asylum package because that’s been blocked in the council, as we all know. this house has done its homework. we are ready. but we cannot wait until the asylum package has been adopted. as there are people drowning, we simply have to make sure that there is sufficient capacity in the mediterranean. and the point is that if the eu, if the member states, are leaving a gap, then what we see is indeed that ngos, or sometimes commercial vessels, fill in that gap. we shouldn’t be criminalising those people for saving lives. and then to say that ‘oh but these people are irregular, they’re labour migrants or asylum seekers’ – that’s irrelevant! first, you rescue them and then we argue over their status, okay? there has to be a permanent sustainable solution. i’m personally no big fan of the solutions that don’t have their basis in the treaties, but i have to say, if the malta agreement can be a first step in the direction of a permanent solution, then all the member states should sign up. it is very disappointing that out of 28 there are only four who have done so, so far. that is shameful. the asylum package is blocked and they use that as a pretext for not saving people. but then when it is about saving people they’re also not there. that is shameful. and finally, i would really like to call on our friends of the epp because i would like to recommend the good efforts that have been made by the shadow, ms düpont, but i also recognise that there are parts of the epp who, despite very often referring to christian values, actually don’t express their christian values in some of the amendments. sorry! when we’re talking about the camps in libya – there’s a german ambassador who wrote to ms merkel referring to those camps as ‘concentration camps’. these camps have to be closed. people have to be evacuated. it is not negotiable. so i also hope for support from epp quarters.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have proposed a resolution which represents the non plus ultra of the left-wing demagogy, in which you ask that the doors of europe be opened wide to an indiscriminate welcome - it is so easy to welcome others' ports - and that ngos be allowed to operate freely in the mediterranean without control by the competent authorities, and even considering that their activities are always excluded from the scope of the legislation on the promotion of irregular migration. well, for these reasons, we not only voted against, but we also tabled an alternative motion, this one aimed at protecting our borders and our citizens. the best way to save lives is to prevent departures and to act directly in africa, by strengthening cooperation with third countries of origin and transit, to define long-term solutions capable of addressing the causes of economic migration. we have only heard of the malta agreement so far, which was once sold as a solution to all problems, but which has now been reduced to a mere pilot project, abandoned by the member states, as we had expected. if this is the way the von der leyen commission intends to manage migration flows, i fear it will be doomed to another failure. we have tabled amendments because we want member states to be able to continue to assess whether rescue operations by private vessels are purely humanitarian aid or aiding and abetting crime. the member states must be able to decide, on the basis of their own legislation, whether or not to allow the entry of ngo ships into their ports and not allow the ships on duty to arrogate this right to themselves, even to the point of challenging a minister. we want to have rules to discourage actions and initiatives which might become an additional attraction for those who want to reach europe illegally. welcome legal migration, but europe must say 'no' to human traffickers and criminals hiding behind false well-wishers!
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be supporting this motion tomorrow because we do not want to be accomplices of those who are planning to let the rule of law, reason and with it the lives of many, many migrants drown in the mediterranean sea, and who will in the coming days be handed over to human traffickers. the ecr and the italian brothers keep repeating until they are exhausted that there is only one way to prevent deaths at sea and that is to prevent the departure of boats. based on the data that you all have at your disposal, we know there is no alternative. we know that, and we keep repeating it here, until we can no longer do it, that for us rescue at sea is the right and the duty when it is something spontaneous, occasional and not organized, often in collusion with the divers, just as we know that there is no solidarity in welcoming thousands of people without being able to guarantee them a job, opportunities, a free and dignified future. we therefore think that this document is a remarkable manifestation of socialist hypocrisy and that is why we, as the ecr, have also tabled an alternative motion. we wanted our thoughts to be written down, and we did.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, this year more than a thousand people have drowned in the mass grave that the mediterranean sea has become. when you have the ability to save lives, not doing so is no longer a matter of human rights, but of human dignity. and when institutions do nothing in the face of death, to make life-saving ngos difficult or even criminal is to become complicit. because it is just as infamous to close ports to rescue ships as salvini did than to threaten to fine them for not asking permission to rescue as pedro sánchez wanted to do. we will tell you once and a thousand times: "saving lives is not a crime". europe has bought the xenophobic agenda from those gentlemen over there. institutional racism is now driving community border policy. we need legal and safe routes. we need a public european maritime rescue service. we need to end the policy of externalizing borders and human rights violations, making it clear that libya is not a safe haven. we call for the suspension of any agreement with the ill-named "libyan coast guard". ladies and gentlemen, do not underestimate this proposal, which may be a small step in the right direction. there are no excuses: either with life, or accomplices of death. you choose tomorrow in the vote, ladies and gentlemen, you choose.
madam president, the european union, with its enormous responsibilities in the imperialist war in syria, and its allies, are part of the problem of the swelling refugee waves, not the solution. the european union-turkey agreement, the dublin agreement and all the decisions of the european union condemn thousands of refugees and migrants to drowning in the mediterranean, as happened with the recent tragic shipwreck near kos, with a dead three-year-old child. at the same time, thousands of others are trapped in inhumane conditions in the wretched hot spots like moria or samos, which must be closed down here and now. the policy of increasing deportations, the militarization of the borders, repression is also reflected in the new asylum bill of the new democracy government in greece, which recycles and exacerbates the problems caused by the policy of the syriza government. we condemn the change in the substance and the concept of asylum seeker, the targeted attempt to reduce the already trampled rights of refugees and migrants. both are victims and creations of capitalist exploitation of imperialist rivalries and wars. the situation that has developed requires that they be immediately transferred to mainland greece to decent public reception facilities, that they be transferred to their countries of actual destination and that all the rights of asylum seekers be respected. the peoples can now draw conclusions and, by their struggle against the european union and nato, oppose imperialist war, put obstacles in the way of imperialist projects, isolate the poison of racism and nationalism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr lópez aguilar for his excellent work. the resolution voted on monday in the libe committee is intended to send a clear message to the commission and the member states. we cannot continue with the policy of closed ports and endanger the lives of people at sea. we have a legal and a moral duty to act. the ad hoc measures adopted so far are not sufficient and adequate, as we saw last week with the latest shipwreck off lampedusa. how many more people have to die before the member states decide to take responsibility? we need immediate, european and permanent answers. we need a sustainable and reliable approach to search and rescue at sea, as we are calling for in this proposal. we call for guidelines that make it clear once and for all that those who offer genuine humanitarian assistance must not be criminalised. we cannot continue to point the finger at those who have for years saved lives by covering up the shameful selfishness of the member states, the same ones who have tried to shift their responsibility onto countries like libya, where migrants are victims of all kinds of violence. i hope that this text, which proposes concrete and humane measures, will be voted on by a large majority in this house tomorrow. voting against is to make ourselves partly responsible for the tragedies in the mediterranean and beyond, and those who wash their mouths saying that the measures taken and the ports closed or the agreements with libya have saved many lives and the traffic has fallen by 80%, must explain to us what this 80% is doing, what is happening in those camps, in those - let us say - concentration camps.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed how many colleagues, especially from the id group, are no longer here and have not even awaited the opinion of the commissioner, the council's representative? this is a shame, given the reservations they have raised about this report or this item. i would like to say that it is, of course, unacceptable to me how many people are dying in the mediterranean on this border, which is actually becoming the most dangerous border in the world. it's a disgrace to europe. on the other hand, i must say that it is not possible for non-profit organisations to act as de facto taxi drivers and replace the activities of the member states, the activities of frontex. i think that's really unacceptable. there are accompanying phenomena, like security risks, of course, support for organized crime. all of this is accompanied by activities which are de facto replacing state surveillance, member state surveillance, european surveillance. we should not give up in the mediterranean. i wish it hadn't happened.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am genuinely puzzled by some of the speeches i have heard from the right. we are faced with a simple choice with the resolution: human lives must be saved, that's obviously not enough. no one says, "come on in, everybody", but we say, "let's save lives, then we'll realize what's still missing: a common european policy - let me put it this way - for the redistribution of migrants on our territory. the passing of the dublin regulation, the legal access channels - these are the real enemies of the traffickers to europe - the emptying of the camps in libya, in short, a european political turning point that has not happened. we put people's lives at the center and avoid gambling with their lives for a few more votes.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union certainly has a strong interest in expanding relations with the western balkan countries, but we are all aware of the deep scars that mark this area and threaten the european union: the eu has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism, and the eu is committed to supporting the fight against terrorism. all this makes it clear that the enlargement and accession instrument, as in the case of turkey, is in a deep crisis. perhaps, commissioner hahn, a good european trade policy would prevent us from being in a stalemate and in disagreement with one another, each with its own foreign policy. a europe which aspires to its own strategic autonomy has its test bed in its relationship with the western balkans. let us not let the european citizens down this time, and let us think of them first and foremost.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has adopted a temporary de profundis for the costly process of enlargement of the union. president macron vetoed the vote, and we have not understood whether this is because of the large number of albanian citizens seeking asylum in france, or whether it is a retaliation for the rejection of mrs goulard. fellow citizens, for years we have witnessed the creation of a giant from clay feet. on the one hand, the union was wasting european taxpayers' money, ignoring the opinions and appeals of the court of auditors; on the other hand, the candidate countries were under the illusion that brussels was the panacea for all their problems. albania, we cannot forget that this country is a member of the organisation of the islamic conference, while european taxpayers' money was wasted in inefficiencies, the oic was financing the koran schools. in the case of the so-called north macedonia, we are violating the history of a people, because macedonia is thessaloniki, not skopje. i conclude with a bitter observation: there is a lot of talk about enlargement as the key to containing russian or chinese influence in the balkans, but when the chinese bought half of greece, nobody talked.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in baghdad and other iraqi cities there is a brutal crackdown on the unemployed students and young people who have been demonstrating for weeks against widespread corruption and poverty. young people make up 60% of the population and four out of ten are unemployed and without a future. special forces are firing live ammunition at protesters, causing deaths, injuries and arbitrary arrests. with the complicity of a corrupt political class, the country is reduced to a perpetual state of war masked by the need to fight terrorism. the situation of the christian population and of women is particularly serious. in many parts of iraq, isis is slaughtering christians on a daily basis and imposing the barbaric practice of infibulation on iraqi women. europe has a duty to intervene to ensure that human rights are respected in iraq, because the credibility of our values and the risk of new mass migrations of refugees and desperate people to the community countries are at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of people have been killed and thousands injured in baghdad and the surrounding areas in the spiral of violence that has been sweeping the country for several weeks. it is important to stress that these phenomena of violence do not come from nowhere, but are the result of equally serious socioeconomic problems which have plagued a country for years now, after it has been trying for some time to emerge from a war which has brought it to its knees. the discontent that is driving thousands of young students and ordinary citizens to the streets of iraq's main cities is the result of rampant corruption, which is hindering the development and modernization of the country. this is linked to an alarming rate of youth unemployment and rising cost of living and a lack of essential services, and creates the perfect conditions for the outbreak of a new social conflict. in this context the right to peaceful protest must be recognised. the iraqi government must guarantee freedom of expression and, even in the event of protest, the security forces must act with the utmost respect for life and human rights. the european union must condemn all forms of violence and remain vigilant about future developments in the area. we must continue to work towards achieving political, social and economic stability in the country and the region.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ensure that all citizens of the world have access to quality health care and adequate care, regardless of their census or birth, as part of the fundamental rights of the individual: that's what universal health coverage is. sadly, today more than half the world's population lacks access to basic health services, and each year more than a hundred million people fall into extreme poverty to pay for their own health care. the main economic resource is the savings that would result from a proper culture of prevention. three points to achieve the objectives: allocate financial resources to national systems, raise awareness of prevention screening for early diagnosis to avoid devastating diseases and invest in research and innovation. so in europe, let's focus on funding research and prevention, and in the poorest countries, let's focus on social and economic reform to protect the right to a dignified life. i conclude, in the awareness of representing our italy, which is at the top of the who ranking for the quality and universality of the care provided. an example is that of italian public health, which can still be improved, but which in many respects can be a guide for its principles and characteristics.
mr president, some of you may remember that in 2017, i became one of the faces of the campaign to create a roadmap for universal health coverage for all by 2030, which was created by the european patients' forum. at that time, we jointly called on the eu institutions and member states to recognise that patients everywhere in the eu, regardless of their country of origin, have the right to equitable access to high-quality care, to commit to sustainable investment in healthcare, or to ensure that medicines, medical devices and services are truly accessible to all. it is also necessary to end the discrimination and stigmas that patients face and to ensure that they are not excluded from society. it should be added that none of these challenges has been addressed by the member states. while it's nice that world leaders, including those from the eu, have been tearing themselves up in the declaration, they should do their homework first. we could start with the hta regulation, where we as parliament called for greater involvement of patients, and which is being blocked by member states quite deliberately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations, last september, by adopting a political declaration on universal health coverage, made an important and solemn commitment. but it will not be easy to give concrete and tangible form to this goal. health for all, in fact, is a right that should be unquestionable, but we know that this is not always the case and achieving effective universal health coverage means ensuring that everyone has access to quality essential health services, the availability of safe and effective essential medicines and vaccines, the availability of nurses, doctors and even social workers. it means making a commitment to leave no one behind, and for this we need a radical reversal of course in some contexts and always a significant investment. it's not a cost, it's an investment. this is a simple principle which i think we must always be able to reassert in our behaviour and in our choices, in order to ensure the physical and mental well-being of women and men. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr sokol, i am sure that you do. the european union must invest resources and i would say that the european union must be consistent with itself. the social pillar is already seeing important principles and choices being identified. the point is not to consider all this as the time to focus on the most vulnerable, to be added to austerity policies. today's debate should affect the overall policies of the european union and i think that this parliament should make a determined effort to do so.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about human rights violations in egypt, it is important to remind this parliament that, almost four years after the disappearance of giulio regeni, the young friulian researcher and my fellow countryman, the egyptian authorities have still not revealed the truth about his death. in addition, national and international mobilisations, including those of this parliament, with the resolutions of 10 march 2016 and 13 december 2018 have not yet produced results. if promoting truth and justice is also a duty of the european union, it is also a duty to guarantee and protect the rights of its citizens outside the schengen area. was everything done for giulio regeni? recall that the european union is egypt's first economic partner and its main source of foreign investment, with the european union's bilateral assistance to egypt under the european neighbourhood instrument amounting to approximately eur 500 million for the period 2017-2020; that egypt is an important interlocutor and a key country for stability in the mediterranean area, given its geopolitical position and the presence of a long border in the desert, which makes any control of flows, people and goods difficult; that the relationship between egypt and the european union must promote respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms, because the stability of a country goes hand in hand with the protection of individual freedoms, respect for the value of life and the rule of law; the european union is also concerned that the wave of repression, the tense climate and the international criticism could threaten the very stability of egypt and thus of the entire north african region and could involve europe, with disastrous consequences. the european union must also encourage the sisi government to reassure the international community that human rights are being respected in egypt, in the light of the recent resumption of dialogue between the prosecutors in cairo and rome, so that this effort may also open a window to reveal the truth about the atrocious death of the young friulian.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right that this house should support the defence of civil rights in egypt. i share the call for respect for different religions, especially the christian one, and i share the call for greater cooperation with the italian authorities in identifying those responsible for the brutal murder of giulio regeni. however, this is not the first time that i have expressed my disappointment at the manichean approach with which this parliament expresses its political positions. it is the method that finds in the demonization of this or that enemy the simple solution to very complex problems. i would therefore like to stress the more balanced and fair approach of the motion tabled by mr fotyga of the ecr group: the condemnation of the sisi government cannot and must not be understood as closing the door on a key partner in the economic sphere, but above all in the fight against islamic terrorism.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make my colleagues aware of the importance of having a debate on the dynamics of a sector which is currently experiencing a very special moment, a sector, among other things, which is engaged in various investments to improve the sustainability of production processes. here, in support of this request, some data, some statistics related to the first half of 2019: the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. of the 10 world producers, of the top 10, we have only one country in the european union, before there were 2. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market share of china has increased from 51 to 53%, the recent case of the ilva plant in taranto, with implications also for the sites in genoa and novi, so we are talking about 10 000 jobs, they make the dramatic nature of the moment such that the choices are no longer deferred.
i have no objection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to life, security and development: these are the cornerstones of the convention on the rights of the child. i'm not here to talk to kids, but to talk to parents who think that a smartphone is the answer to every problem. i ask you to be fathers and mothers again: it is in the family that the child grows up and it is in this context that the child learns from the gestures of the parents and not from a game. in the age of cyber addiction and child abuse through gaming platforms, we also think about how to provide exclusive and parent-centered support. without prejudice to the autonomy of the individual states, it would be interesting to work on european programmes aimed at parents and not just teenagers, or we could encourage national legislation to be more friendly to fathers and mothers. the constant presence of a father and a mother is the first building block of a good and proper education of our children. it's not just a smartphone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we celebrate the anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, defending the rights of children means preserving our most precious asset. they are not only our future, but they are also the most vulnerable part of our communities. for this reason we must promote at all levels a culture of life which puts the younger generation at the centre of our institutional action. today, children are increasingly the object of ideological demands, the result of the selfishness of adults who risk subverting the natural order. as also enshrined in the convention, the european union must do more to promote the family as the fundamental unit of society and the natural environment for the growth of children. families must receive the protection and assistance they need. we must defend the rights of children to have a father and a mother, not a parent 1 and a parent 2, and above all we must oppose harmful practices such as the teaching of gender theory in schools.
in writing. – thirty years ago, nations joined to make an unprecedented promise to the children of the world. they pledged not only to proclaim children’s rights, but also to uphold them and be accountable for them. it has become the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history and has helped transform children’s lives around the world. still, not every child gets to enjoy a full childhood. millions of children around the world are hungry, sick or in danger. others are suffering because of their religion, ethnicity or disability. children in conflict zones may be subject to horrific sexual violence that causes long-term psychological and physical trauma. most are trafficked for sexual exploitation, forced labour or recruited as child soldiers. more families are migrating than ever before, and child migrants are some of the most vulnerable people in the world. we need to strengthen our efforts to ensure all children are safe, healthy and able to achieve their dreams. it is up to our generation to put children first and to demand that leaders from governments, business and communities fulfil their commitments and take action to protect children’s rights now, once and for all.
in writing. exactly 30 years ago, in 1989, the united nations (un) adopted the landmark convention on the rights of the child. it is worth recalling some of the important commitments of the signatories to the convention, which are being forgotten in many countries of the union today. the opening statement is unambiguous: the united nations universal declaration of human rights proclaims that children have the right to special care and assistance. the family, as the fundamental unit of society and the natural environment for the development and well-being of all its members, and in particular of children, must be afforded the protection and support necessary to enable it to fulfil its full responsibilities in society. for a child to develop fully and harmoniously, he must be brought up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love, and understanding. the need for special custody of the child was expressed even earlier, in the geneva declaration of the rights of the child of 1924 and in the declaration of the rights of the child adopted by the general assembly on 20 november 1959. as stated in the declaration of the rights of the child, "a child, because of his physical and mental immaturity, requires special care and attention, including appropriate legal protection, both before and after birth". it is a very important statement that obliges us to protect children legally, including before birth and before conception, that is, unborn children. the importance of traditional and cultural values for the protection and harmonious development of the child of each nation is also emphasised. let's remember that.
in writing. next week we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. the document, which emphasises that children are human beings with all human rights, covers the broadest range of human rights, including civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights. the document sets out the rights that all children should enjoy and sets out the basic standards for children's development at different ages and in different areas of their lives. children are also the future of europe. our society has a duty to care for children, to provide them with a safe environment in which to grow and develop. in view of demographic change and an ageing population, we must not overlook the role of the family and its contribution to our future. i am pleased that child protection will also be given a special place in the demography department of the european commission.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the eu steel industry: ways of protecting european workers and industries (2019/2920 ((rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to point out that both the standard registration and the new system which allows electronic registration of the contributors can be used to apply for spontaneous oral reports and blue cards. i therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would urge you to do so now, without waiting for the end of the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, as requested, let me make a statement on behalf of the commission on the subject of the eu steel sector. first, let me say a few words on the trade defence measures for steel. over the three-year period from 2013-16, the european steel industry suffered truly severe losses. this was due to the trade spillovers from chinese overcapacity. but our policy response was swift and comprehensive. in march 2016 we issued a communication laying out a number of measures encompassing, crucially, trade policy. over the years 2014-18, the eu imposed a really unprecedented number – 25 new measures covering steel products. the aim was to remove the injurious effects of dumped and subsidised imports and restore fair trading conditions. these measures significantly reduced dumped and subsidised imports and protected 216 000 jobs. the eu took a number of steps to better protect the steel industry in the trade defence domain through import surveillance and accelerated investigations. the opening of the investigations was based on threat of injury, where justified, or the application of definite duties retroactively, where audited. these steps had a significant impact. steel imports of products covered by measures adopted in the years 2014-17 fell by more than 95% on average compared with the volume of imports before the measures were imposed. despite signs of recovery for the steel sector, in part due to the imposition of trade defence measures, the eu steel industry continued to be vulnerable, and in 2018 the industry was confronted with yet another important challenge: the risk of injury stemming from the us section 232 measures on steel products and the risk of trade diversion. the commission again reacted swiftly to this challenge by opening a safeguard investigation. earlier this year, the commission and eu member states agreed to put in place definitive safeguard measures, considering the risk of redirecting substantial amounts of imports from other countries, previously destined to the us market, into europe. when imposing definite measures, the commission committed to reassess the situation by july 2019. this was to ensure that their functioning remained adapted to steel market developments and to deal with unforeseen circumstances. the measures consist of a tariff rate quota which de facto limits imports from all countries of origin to the average level of the years 2015-2017. a 25% duty is imposed beyond this and this is a lower level than the high 2018. these measures, imposed until july 2021, allow for imports to continue at their non-injurious level and all of those were largely supported by member states and industries. the commission continues to monitor imports and will consider the need for another review in the future, in the case of changed circumstances, for example, brexit. the commission is also tackling the root causes of overcapacity by actively participating in the g20 global forum on steel excess capacity. in addition, the european partnership on clean steel and low carbon steel making has been proposed under horizon europe. this will put additional private and public research and innovation investment to support the development of breakthrough technologies for the production of clean steel. the eu is also supporting the development of clean steel technologies with their research fund for coal and steel. let me also mention that under the next multiannual financial framework (mff), we’ll have horizon europe and investeu, both new sources for investment and research in the steel sector. through the strategic forum on important projects for common european interests, the commission is identifying the business-critical strategic value chains and defining potential actions and investments from industry and public authorities. this strategic forum has prioritised six key strategic value chains, including the strategic value chain on low co2 emission industries, and the final report has just been finalised on 6 november. finally, the innovation fund under the emissions trading system (ets) post-2020 will support big demonstration projects employing breakthrough low carbon technologies and it will cover up to 60% of the relevant cost of the projects. let me now move to the labour market. the eu legal framework is there also to protect workers in case of industrial change and disruptions. several eu directives set requirements for informing and consulting workers in cases of restructuring. it is the responsibility, of course, of the member states’ authorities to ensure that the national legislation transposing eu directives is applied by the employers concerned. while the commission has no power to interfere in specific company decisions regarding the restructuring plans, it urges companies to follow good practices on restructuring. eu funding is also available to support workers. let me mention, of course, the eu social fund, which is used to improve employment opportunities, promote education and lifelong learning and develop active inclusion policies. the very important tool that we have is the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) – a key instrument providing support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes. the first step to mobilise the egf is for the member states concerned to submit an application and the egf regulation provides for a minimum of 500 redundancies in an enterprise as one of the eligibility criteria to trigger the intervention. in the case of the small labour market or in some exceptional circumstances, derogation from this criteria is always possible. as you can see, the european commission has, for a long time, taken a very clear stance to support the competitiveness of the eu’s steel sector. we issued a communication dedicated to the eu steel sector, the so-called steel action plan. we took steps to strengthen eu defence against unfair trading practices. in conclusion, let me underline that in our renewed industrial policy strategy, we stressed that a robust industrial base is essential for europe’s economic growth, preservation of sustainable jobs and eu competitiveness in the global market.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, may i thank you for the work you have done over the last five years, for the wonderful work you have done over the last five years. the question of steel in the european steel industry is a huge one. the steel pillar has been betrayed by many factors which characterize the somewhat, shall we say, casual approach to industrial policies which europe has often had. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the safeguard measures identified are not sufficient. it is not enough and the results show it: turkish steel in 2017 was at 16% in our market, today it is at 33%. we must intervene to prevent these divergences and, on the other hand, monitor countries which do not always pay attention to manufacturing tradition. the case of italy in taranto is a demonstration of this. europe should teach italy to treat its industry well.
i have been in the trade council over the years and the work that has been done, particularly on steel, has certainly been important. he arrived too late, however, and is still too weak. i am very much of the opinion that the review of safeguard measures must be done immediately, immediately. we have already mentioned the case of turkey, and there is still a great deal to be done in china, where many products come in with triangulation which must be checked. but there is a theme that has to do with the process of change in the steel industry inside. we know that the state aid rules are particularly strict on steel. i believe that it is worth considering not only european research funds but also funds for industrial transition, to enable companies to make their environmental investments, even at a time of great difficulty in the steel sector, and to this end to revise the state aid rules. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card, rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. ambassador, i would like to ask you if you see a link between the restrictive climate policy of the european union and the collapse in the steel industry? in your speech you referred to the current difficult situation of the steel industry on the european market. you will no doubt have noticed the increase in steel imports from turkey, russia and china to the european union. so, do you think it makes sense to continue... (the president cut off the speaker)
answer to a blue-card question. the answer is yes, i'm perfectly clear on that. the structural funds must therefore be used not only for research but also for the transition processes of production. i myself, as minister for economic development in italy, have re-industrialized both ilva and piombino, so i am very familiar with the subject. the important thing is that europe, if it wants to support this transition in the steel industry, should put money on top of it, otherwise it is just talk.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to take up what mr salini and mrs calenda said and thank the commissioner, but i do not think i can do that and, above all, the workers in krakow, who will no longer be working in the steel industry in poland in a few days' time, or the workers in england or the workers in taranto in a few days' time, would disagree. we respond to a resounding crisis with the united states going with cannons and putting tariffs and putting heavy tariffs. we go with very weak safeguards. it's obvious that this is the wrong way. if we add to this the irresponsibility or the incapacity of governments such as the italian government, with the incredible management of ilva, it is clear that the picture is so bleak that an immediate recovery is necessary. so we do not need crocodile tears, as perhaps mr bonafè does, when he tells us to protect the workers. the workers are really protecting themselves by protecting a sector as strategic and key as steel for the whole of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner bieńkowska, it is with regret that i have to say that the figures for the european market are wrong for you, because the wrong that those figures represent is the wrong of the european union's policies, which have allowed this steel market to become very fragile in europe, allowing countries such as turkey and china to enter our market and unfairly compete with our companies. so the jobs in europe and the industrial system are not defended by words, but by deeds. we must understand who can stay on the market loyally and who enters the market only to destroy the european market. we must defend the future of europe and the future of the member states, because we must defend the future of those workers, the future of our enterprises. stop turkey from bringing its steel into europe and defend the work!
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have celebrated the 30th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, thanks mainly to the strong will of the germans of that time. this proves that when you want to, no wall is too high to be knocked down. unfortunately, for over thirty years the wall that divides cyprus within the european union has shown that the european union is a hostage of turkey. turkey knows full well that the european union is geopolitically weak, divided internally and that european soft power no longer convinces anyone and, above all, scares no one at all. the disproportion between turkish actions, be it illegal drilling or the invasion of northern syria, and european responses, made up of paragraphs of condemnation in which the european council, as president loiseau has just reminded us, regrets, complains, invites, hopes, shows that the european project is strategically inadequate, both on a regional and global scale, and that our response is too weak. so someone has to do something. let brave men and women face reality. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have recently been faced in this house with debates in which turkey is the main protagonist, but the main negative protagonist. the decision by the council to impose sanctions is certainly sacrosanct, but it is not enough to express solidarity with cyprus or to prevent a few people involved in illegal drilling from travelling to europe. erdogan is certainly not shaking right now. what is certain is that the scale and scope of the sanctions are not sufficient and are not proportionate to the damage suffered by the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and the aggressiveness of the turkish behaviour. we are facing a reality, the turkish reality, which has never wanted to question its own contradictions and, above all, has always seen the european union as an atm machine and, unfortunately, this house has been complicit in this too many times.
madam president, the european parliament is today discussing what is happening in bolivia. firstly, to express deep concern about the political and social developments in the country and to send a clear and forceful message condemning violence. violence that has also been political over the last few days. it is clear, and the oas has said so, that serious irregularities were detected during the last electoral process in bolivia. we are not only taking note, but we are demanding a democratic solution to the present situation, with free and fair elections, monitored by the international community and also by the european union. but at a time like this, when there has been a serious institutional deterioration in the country - not only during the last few days, but also during the last months and years, as has been said - we must remember that within the constitution there are no shortcuts. there are no shortcuts and fewer shortcuts that go linked to violence. that's why we're asking for elections, institutionalism, peace and a future for bolivia.
madam president, high representative, morales' victory - on three occasions with the same census as now - was historic: for the first time, an indigenous person became president of the republic. in the early years, he achieved undoubted successes that i will not deny; but then succumbed to the aphrodisiac of power. he called a referendum to perpetuate himself in the presidency, lost it and presented himself: that's called authoritarianism; he falsified the results: that, in spanish, is called pucherazo; he forced the electoral authorities controlled by him to whitewash them: that's called undue appropriation; he did not call a second round, which is what he should have done: that's called disobedience to the constitution; and he fled to mexico, leaving his people abandoned: that's already called desertion. the european union is therefore calling for a fair and transparent election with observation and participation by the european union.
madam president, we all know the situation in bolivia now. we know where mr morales is, we know what the outcome of the audit of the organization of american states was, and we know that mr morales recognized the need to call new elections and called them and appointed the new members of the electoral tribunal. what is perhaps less said is that we have had the opportunity to see that mr morales's flight was also clearly conditioned by the distortion caused by the armed forces and the national police, facts which must not happen again, because the consequences of what was the previous regime are already being suffered, to a large extent. it is therefore essential that the european union should put at the disposal of bolivia all the instruments at its disposal to provide it with aid and support in order to achieve the development and recovery of the democratic situation, and that all political and social actors should put an end to the violence and restore democratic conditions. and let me say goodbye to mrs mogherini for a second, because i may not have the opportunity to do so in the next partsession, and i would like to congratulate her on her hard and extensive work and wish her the best in the new season.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, mr morales may have made mistakes, but we cannot ignore the fact that a violent military coup is taking place in bolivia, endangering the safety and lives of thousands of people, and that we must stop it immediately. the morales government has historically had the merit of breaking apartheid from the aymara indian communities and increasing the country's welfare. in these hours, in defiance of the rule of law, without the necessary quorum and outside the democratic rules, we have witnessed the self-proclamation of a president of the republic. last sunday the holy father called for negotiations, inviting all bolivians to wait with a constructive spirit for the results of the process of reviewing the elections. also on november 10, morales announced the decision to renew the members of the electoral commission and called new general elections. yet, the violence has not abated; it has become systematic. i therefore ask you to do your utmost to help restore democratic dialogue and the rule of law, in order to avoid further bloodshed. finally, if the situation calls for it, i ask you to call on all member states to open their embassies to provide asylum and shelter in case of need.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate the need to defend the freedom of all journalists so that they can carry out their work without violence or intimidation. too often we see cases where journalists who are not politically aligned are threatened or discriminated against for their opinions, in the silence of the media and politics. it has also happened recently in italy, when the journalist fausto biloslavo, from the giornale, who is critical of illegal immigration and the role of ngos in the mediterranean, was tried for a gag order. first, he was denied access to the university of trento by a group of students and militants of the italian far left, and then there was the attempt to boycott his lecture with throwing objects, slaps and even punches. all this in the almost indifference of the italian mainstream media. and then, ladies and gentlemen, if europe had any coherence, it would have to remember that the biggest prison in the world for journalists is in turkey, in that turkey which some people in this parliament would still like to bring into europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just today recalled the fall of the berlin wall, but i believe that there are still walls in europe that are as difficult to break down as the one that stifles genuine freedom of the press. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the agreement on the european economic area, which is a key element in the process of european integration. their investigations were useful to the public but inconvenient to the organized crime that killed them for it. it is an unacceptable horror, just as it is unacceptable that journalists like paolo borrometi today are deprived of their full personal freedom and forced to live under guard. unacceptable fear for the fate of julian assange. it is unacceptable that many journalists today are paid a few euros for their hours of work and are influenced by the interests of too many impure publishers. ladies and gentlemen, europe must do much, much more. we have a duty to create a cultural climate in which the absolute freedom to inform and to be informed is universally regarded as a right of first importance. a cultural climate in which those who distribute fake news are punished, in which those editors who have interests that condition their journalists by limiting their freedom are promoted, and in which, therefore, any kind of psychological, economic and physical violence against free journalism is condemned today and made impossible tomorrow. only then will we really have broken down the walls that limit our true freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on immigration the european union is a total failure. in recent weeks i have heard particular emphasis on the malta agreement. it was supposed to be a revolution. he had to because in reality he's a total failure. in italy, landings have increased and ngos are now always coming and helping, in fact, the divers. there is no port rotation, the one you promised so much. france and germany are constantly saying that redistribution must be made, but they only say so in words because in fact redistribution is not being made. so obviously, all the landings we've had in italy are people who have stayed there and are staying there. only three countries have joined. the european union is totally absent, but in words, it speaks of the duty of welcome, it speaks of human needs and then in the end they all land exclusively in italy. it's convenient for you. it is convenient for you that the left is now in government in italy and that italy is the refugee camp of europe. but let me just say before i close that at least get rid of these farcical documents, like the malta agreement, which are in fact nothing but a mockery of the european people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the flooding in venice is very serious. venice is a world heritage site, we can't afford to lose it. the venetians, to whom we extend our solidarity, the venetians, the italians, will be able to pull their sleeves up, but i am here to ask for the solidarity and practical help of all european citizens. venice needs us. once the damage has been assessed, we must make sure that the european union solidarity fund funds arrive as quickly as possible. to save venice and its priceless artistic heritage, the timeframe for disbursing the fund, which is now about a year from the submission of the application, must be shortened. the five star movement will make its voice heard on this and i am sure that the whole of the european parliament will support it. the tragedy in venice must be a warning to us all. climate change is threatening our future. that's why you have to change registers. let europe take bold and unprecedented concrete measures to protect the environment.
mr president, finnish presidency, commissioner, as the european parliament's rapporteur on bosnia-herzegovina, i believe that we have a special responsibility here. the situation in bihac and bosnia is dramatic. it is not worth being here, as we are always, or that croatia is blamed on the borders, or that serbia is blamed on the other side, or that the bosnian authorities are failing. the situation is dramatic and it is therefore the responsibility of the european union to have an emergency plan in place this winter. i am sure, because i have this information, that the bosnian authorities are available not only to receive financial aid, as has been said here, that is not the problem, the problem is not financial. we need to create a team from frontex, which is not one or two experts, it is a large team to deal with the situation, particularly in bihać but also in other camps, and to help the bosnian authorities to resolve the situation. and if we are able to put this force on the ground, which the bosnian authorities will gladly accept, if we do it intelligently, i am sure that, first of all, we will have stagnated the humanitarian problem and we will have a much greater capacity to sort out economic migrants and refugees and to give a route to those who might come into the european union.
mr president, finnish presidency, commissioner avramopoulos, we know that at least 150 people from the middle east and asia are desperately trying every night to cross the border between bosnia and herzegovina and croatia, via bihać, and are crowded by police decision into the vucjak camp, where the public health and humanitarian emergency situation is really dramatic. there is no plenary session of the european parliament in which we do not make clear the lack of solidarity and political will to comply with european law in relation to relocation programmes between member states of the european union and resettlement, when it is a border state, as in the case of bosnia, which is not a member of the european union. but what can bosnia expect from the moral stature of the european union, if in a few minutes we are discussing the dramatic situation in lesbos, which is absolutely unsustainable in your country, commissioner avramopoulos, abandoned to its fate for too long by the lack of solidarity of the european union and by the absolute lack of moral stature in fulfilling the binding mandates of european law? there are resettlement programs. this parliament has adopted them as part of the european asylum system; this system, embryonic as it may be, is in place and binding on the member states. this is what we can expect in dealing with this humanitarian emergency, which unfortunately is not the only one and will not be the last to be discussed in this plenary session of the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. bosnia and herzegovina is located in the heart of europe, between greece and croatia, and is in a devastating situation right now because of the eu's poor refugee policy. illegal pushbacks from croatia are the rule and exacerbate the situation of refugees, but also that of the bosnian people. the accommodation of the people is already inhumane. although the citizens of bosnia were very committed, these illegal pushbacks are upsetting the mood, because it is simply too much. we must help our neighbouring countries and not leave them alone. we cannot accept that refugees drown in the mediterranean, but we cannot accept that people freeze to death in the bosnian-croatian border area three hours' flight from here. i call on croatia to stop illegal pushbacks. the bosnian authorities must step up their efforts. the eu is called upon to provide all human resources on the ground for operational support that is possible. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we have enough evidence. i can show you that in this report i have here, which i'd be happy to give you to read. then you can see when and how many illegal pushbacks have taken place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must also deal with the impact on the citizens of the member states living along the balkan route. friuli venezia giulia, an autonomous region of italy bordering slovenia and austria, is very concerned about the situation of migrants in bosnia. the arrivals of migrants in friuli venezia giulia are increasing. there are over 5 500 entries from the beginning of 2019 to the end of september. according to the regional prefectures, there were over 2 900 asylum seekers in the territory at the end of september, compared to 5 000 at the beginning of 2018. the 40% drop is due to matteo salvini's policy, which has managed to manage a potentially explosive situation. there is concern today that the numbers of migrants registered in 2018 will return, and uncertainty is also fueled by the migration policy of the yellow russian government. the impact on the migration flow of croatia's entry into the schengen area will also have to be taken into account. let's make sure the balkan route doesn't become a big bihać.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have, as my colleagues have said here, terrible reports of violations of human rights, of international law, of eu law. people living in absolutely impossible conditions, which is similar to what we might hear about greece but in somewhat smaller numbers. the situation in bosnia is not just a bosnian problem or a bosnian responsibility. it's a direct consequence of eu policies: the eu's failed refugee policy where we don't share responsibility and the eu's border policy. i'm actually embarrassed when i hear the right. in response to a humanitarian disaster, they're sending in more police. it's the right wing's answer to everything. no, when we face a humanitarian disaster, we should respond with humanitarian action. this situation is also a direct consequence of our illegal pushbacks. we have them mainly from croatia but also to some extent from slovenia. this is what happens when the only measure of success of eu policy is a reduced number of people arriving in europe. instead, we should measure our success in migration policy by how many people the eu can protect. that's what we're supposed to be measuring our success. i think the issue here is that we should not give schengen membership to croatia in a situation where theyre not living up to the eu acquis. that is very concrete action i want to ask the commission and the council what they count on doing on that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171 (8))
blue-card answer. – as my colleague from the green group has already shown, there are reports – not only from ngos, but also from unhcr and the council of europe commissioner for human rights. this chamber and the council and the commission must take the consequences. there should be no membership of croatia in schengen until you live up to the eu acquis. we must say no to pushback, wherever it happens, in croatia or elsewhere. pushback is an illegal act and the european union has to protect humanitarian law, not its borders – that cannot be the end game.
mr president, the item on the agenda today: the migration situation in bihac should have been addressed a long time ago, and perhaps these problems would not have existed at all. and so we're dealing with the consequences of the problem again and again. the european union's management of migration is like wagging its tail at a dog, not the other way around. so the balkan route is real, and so are the other problems associated with illegal migration. the problem of migration must be solved primarily at the source, because we do not do this, the borders are extremely permeable, also in slovenia, where the number of border crossings by illegal migrants and smugglers is increasing from month to month, which all the machinery that the eu can handle cannot overcome. the security situation on the southern border of slovenia has changed completely and people are afraid. in the european union, we have set clear objectives for returning illegal migrants to safe countries or countries of origin. i think it's irresponsible that we're not even close to meeting those goals. it is precisely because we do not return illegal migrants that we are running out of space for genuine refugees, those who are actually in danger of losing their lives. a clear policy, short-term and long-term measures, including those concerning bihać, need to be drawn up. above all, it is necessary to send a clear signal to irregular migrants and smugglers that irregular migration is neither desired nor allowed in the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in bosnia and herzegovina, just a stone's throw from our borders, in a country which has so far received 38 million euros for the management of immigration, is absolutely unacceptable. in bihać, migrants in transit are victims of violence, discrimination and abuse, none of the camps are in good condition, but the vučjak camp is simply inhuman. we are talking about a camp created by the city authorities in the middle of the forest, where there used to be a dump, there is no electricity or running water, sanitary conditions are bad and people are in constant danger because of the proximity to minefields and methane gas reserves. we cannot just ignore this situation. is the european commission monitoring the use of funds allocated to bosnia? will you press the bosnian authorities to ask for the closure of the vučjak camp? a field that shouldn't even exist. and what are you going to do in response to croatia's rejections of bosnia, which only make bihać's situation worse? i understand the efforts being made by the commission, but surely the commission can do more and must do more. i would remind someone that we are talking about human beings, women, men and children, and we have a duty to intervene urgently, even in view of the winter which will certainly be very harsh. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card, rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i'll answer in less than 30 seconds. as my colleagues have said, we have absolutely irrefutable evidence from the various associations which are present in the area. so i think i am not lying, but i certainly also understand the efforts that bosnia is making, but i also understand that there are blatant human rights violations in that region.
mr president, i will speak in english to be better understood here. along more 1 000 kilometres, croatia is protecting the longest external border of the european union, mostly with bosnia and herzegovina. in its resolution of february 2019 this parliament noted with concern the increasing number of migrants arriving in bosnia and herzegovina via their eastern neighbours, and the lack of coordination between different levels of government in responding to this situation. we called for better border management with bosnia and herzegovina and to strengthen the specialised human trafficking investigation units to effectively combat smugglers. unfortunately, according to the latest statement given by the authorities in charge of implementing these measures, bosnia and herzegovina is failing to protect its borders and its citizens. even the chief of border police in bosnia and herzegovina openly stated that they cannot control the borders, and appealed for help. apart from this, bosnia and herzegovina politicians have not followed the recommendations of this house, of the high representative and of the commissioner for enlargement. for more than a year they have not formed a council of ministers that would provide the european union with an appropriate interlocutor. once again, we call upon the political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to finally form a council of ministers so we can work hand in hand to resolve this terrible crisis. thank you very much, and finally you should understand what is going on in bosnia and herzegovina.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must stop blindly seeing. we are facing a real humanitarian emergency. today, hundreds of refugees live in the vučjak camp, not far from the border between bosnia and croatia. in fact, we must be honest and say that hundreds of refugees are "surviving", often without food, water, sanitation, health care and security. we are facing appalling conditions in an area of our continent. and this is also one of the consequences of the unfortunate choices of too many states, and also of the european states and the international community on immigration, because we prefer not to share a common strategy. we prefer to cultivate the demon of fear towards the migrant. the result is before our eyes and we must act immediately, putting an end to the humanitarian emergency and re-proposing the strategic theme of a common immigration policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the last two months 18 000 people have arrived on the greek islands, more than twice as many as a year ago. the situation in the greek islands is now collapsing, especially in hotspots like moria, which, although it had a capacity of 3 000, now has 13 000 people. due to the turkish offensive in northeastern syria, the situation could worsen with a further increase in the flow of syrian refugees. the moria hotspot is a good example of the failure of european migration policy. the culmination of this failure was reached in 2016 with the agreement between the european union and turkey, signed to stop the flow of refugees from the west coast of ankara to greece. the agreement provided that the islands of greece would be used as temporary staging areas for migrants from turkey trying to reach eastern europe, on the condition, however, that the migrants would return to ankara's territory. well, because of the failure of that agreement, we still have 30 000 migrants trapped in greece today. today greece, like italy, is paying for the european union's inability to manage migration flows, instead of seriously working on resettlement programmes, succumbing to erdogan's blackmail.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of the debate is constantly changing, but the debate is always the same, because the reasons for the debate are obviously not clear. first of all, nobody ever deals with the causes of migration, nobody ever talks about it. secondly, the no-border ideology, which considers the borders between peoples to be superstructures, just as in the last century it considered private property to be a superstructure. and then, thirdly, the hypocrisy of trusting a capricious and unpredictable sultan like erdogan, and entrusting the future of the european union to a non-european nation. and that speaks volumes about the hypocrisy of all those who call themselves europeans in this chamber.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is extremely important to mention the religious aspect, also because we know how many christians are being persecuted around the world, and that is why i am against the proposal.
mr president, we just agreed on the situation of freedoms in algeria, not human rights freedoms. we just voted for this – just to make sure.
i can confirm to you, mr zovko, that this is a 'freedom situation'. (the order of business is as follows)
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statement on climate and environmental emergency (2019/2930(rsp)), – oral questions to the council on the 2019 un climate change conference in madrid, spain (cop25), tabled by pascal canfin, peter liese, mohammed chahim, nils torvalds, pär holmgren, jadwiga wiśniewska, mick wallace, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000029/2019 – b9-0055/2019), and– oral questions to the commission on the 2019 un climate change conference in madrid, spain (cop25), tabled by pascal canfin, peter liese, mohammed chahim, nils torvalds, pär holmgren, jadwiga wiśniewska, mick wallace, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000030/2019 – b9-0056/2019). i would like to remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance to the chamber. colleagues, i would like to ask that, if you are leaving the plenary, you do so quietly so that we can proceed with the agenda.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, ‘clearly, planet earth is facing a climate emergency’. this statement was released on 5 november by 11 000 scientists from 153 nations. the climate crisis is accelerating faster and more severely than anticipated. the statement i quoted is in line with the recent special reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), according to which human-induced warming has already raised 1° celsius above pre-industrial levels and is increasing at approximately 0.2° celsius per decade. by the end of the century, based on the current climate policies implemented worldwide, temperature is projected to rise by 3.1° to 3.7°. it’s clear that progress so far is insufficient and efforts should urgently be stepped up. the united nations indicates that the nationally determined contributions (ndcs) submitted by parties to the paris agreement collectively fall far short of what is required to limit the rise of temperature to 1.5°. the overall situation is rather bleak, yet there are some encouraging signs including global birth rate, investments in solar and wind power and fossil fuel divestments. moreover, there is growing awareness and concern about global warming and its effects. all over the world, active civil society coalitions, citizens and the youth in particular are calling for decisive action that will determine the future of the planet and humanity. we have heard their appeal to implement the paradigm shift to climate-proof the circular economy, that our economies and societies urgently need in order to mitigate the most catastrophic consequences of climate change. the climate action summit in september demonstrated the political will to step up collective ambition. it resulted in a number of major announcements by governments and private-sector leaders, including at eu level, on the reduction of greenhouse gas production, climate finance and carbon neutrality. madam president, honourable members, as regards the paris agreement, the eu is preparing its long-term strategy for greenhouse gas emissions reductions that will be submitted to the un framework convention on climate change by 2020. most member states agree with the objective of climate neutrality in the eu by 2050, and several of them have already set national targets contributing to that goal. the european council is committed to finalising its guidance on the eu’s climate-neutral vision before the end of this year, with a view to reaching an agreement between all member states. the road to climate neutrality in the eu will affect everyone and will require efforts from all sectors of the economy. it’s therefore essential that the transition must be just and socially balanced and that no one is left behind. it is equally essential to scale up their investment in research and development, if the eu wants reap the opportunities in terms of growth and employment that climate neutrality will trigger. the eu has taken the lead in implementing the paris agreement. we are set to over-achieve our 2020 20% reduction target. the climate and energy legislative framework is designed to enable us to reach the 2030 target. that involves a reduction of domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% below 1990 levels. actually, thanks to parliament’s, the council’s and the commission’s good cooperation, we were able to increase the ambition level up to -45% while finalising climate 2030 files. the eu has successfully decoupled economic growth from emissions. from 1990 to 2017 the eu’s economy grew by 58%. total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 22%. a recent report by the european environment agency indicates that the eu’s total emissions decreased by 2% in the last year. this brings the total reduction to 23.2% below 1990 levels. by promoting this positive example, we can inspire all parties to the paris agreement to raise the global ambition. it is in that spirit that the eu actively prepares for cop25. we call on all parties to update their ndcs and to increase their clarity, transparency and understanding. cop25 will test the willingness of all parties to finalise the implementation of the paris agreement. the rule book was almost totally agreed in katowice last year, with the important exception of the rules on voluntary cooperation in article 6. as agreed by the council on 4 october, the eu is committed to working with all parties to develop robust and comprehensive rules on voluntary cooperation. the eu’s core position in this respect is to agree on rules on internationally transferred mitigation outcomes that encourage ambition and progression in ndcs, guarantee environmental integrity, avoid double counting and provide for the closure of the kyoto protocol mechanisms. finally, the fight against global warming needs adequate financial means and resources which are key for increasing global ambition and for facilitating the transition to climate-smart economies. the eu is the world’s biggest climate finance contributor. the contributions of the eu and its member states exceed eur 21 billion annually and fulfil their commitment towards the mobilisation of usd 100 billion per year by 2020 through to 2025, as part of the collective developed countries goal. the council has recently adopted conclusions on climate finance. the council reaffirms the commitment of the eu and its member states to ensure that the deliberations set a new collective quantified goal from the floor of usd 100 billion per year prior to 2025. the deliberations are to take place in november 2020 with the aim of making global financial flows consistent with the long-term goals of the paris agreement. the council also stresses the importance of the need for a wider variety of funding sources and for a broader range of contributors. as you can see, we have an important and dense cop25 ahead with a lot of items to be discussed. let me assure you that the european union will play an active role in these discussions.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this timely and topical debate on the pressing issue of climate and environmental emergency, while we look ahead to preparations for the upcoming 25th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, in madrid, led by the government of chile. climate change and the environment are a top priority for our citizens, and in particular for our young people. science is clear: each year matters, each choice matters, each half a degree matters. it is of the utmost urgency that we act now. fires have raged from the amazon to siberia; heatwaves, droughts and cyclones are affecting billions of people throughout the world. climate change and the biodiversity losses are already affecting critical life systems on earth, threatening the livelihood of many. together with you, we have put in place a comprehensive climate and energy framework and have delivered on our objectives in the circular economy action plan. but we need to do more. we need much, much stronger action, as science and our youth keep reminding us. the european union is strongly committed to continuing an ambitious and urgent action to effectively address the interdependent environmental and climate crisis in an integrated manner – globally. this is essential for sustainable development, poverty eradication and delivering on all of the sustainable development goals. on the environment side, we need to engage all partners in bringing about the ‘transformative change’ that is necessary for our planet’s survival. we must make 2020 a landmark year for climate, nature and ecosystems, including through an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework to be adopted at the conference of the parties under the convention for biological diversity in kunming, china. on climate, we must continue our efforts and accelerate our action in the european union and globally. four years ago, the international community celebrated the paris agreement as a game changer. and last year we agreed on the katowice rulebook – the first ever universal transparency and accountability system applicable to all, with in-built flexibilities for those who genuinely need it. both paris and katowice are landmarks for multilateralism and a true testament of global resolve and solidarity. looking ahead to madrid, completing the work on making the paris agreement work well in practice must be our first collective objective. in this regard, a key topic for cop25 is the single element of the rulebook left outstanding in katowice: the guidance on voluntary cooperation and market-based mechanisms under article 6 of the paris agreement. securing a meaningful outcome for market measures under article 6 of the paris agreement is important for the european union. if we do it right. compromises that put environmental integrity at risk are not acceptable to us. the decisions that we take at cop25 must prevent the double counting of emission reductions, and to achieve this the rules must account comprehensively for all uses of international carbon markets. the decisions we take in madrid should also create strong incentives to reduce emissions now and in the future, and this means avoiding the use of past emission reductions to undermine current and future ambition. the new mechanism under article 6.4 should avoid the weaknesses of the kyoto protocol mechanisms. second, our other substantive priority for cop25 is the successful review of the warsaw international mechanism on loss and damage: to stimulate practical ideas that help people on the ground to take effective action to avert, minimise and address loss and damage, particularly for vulnerable communities in their specific situations. third, the european union attaches great importance to stakeholder engagement in cop25, particularly on oceans. the chilean presidency has made this a top priority for this ‘blue cop’. but in madrid we must begin looking at the bigger picture, and how we – and all other parties to the paris agreement – respond to the increasing request from citizens everywhere in the world for more and more decisive action. we believe that in madrid we must continue to incentivise, support and accelerate action from all actors towards the objectives of the paris agreement. the european union will continue to do its homework on this and will continue to lead by example. next year we will update our nationally determined contribution, to make it clear that the full implementation of our legislative framework will effectively enable us to overreach the current commitment of ‘at least 40%’. around 45% reductions are estimated by 2030. yet this is not the whole story. we will make it clear that the european union is irrevocably committed to a path that will lead us to do our full part under the paris agreement, and will offer others an effective model to do their part. the european union will be at their side, offering full cooperation and support. european union leaders have committed to finalising their guidance on the objective of climate neutrality by the end of the year, in good time for the long-term strategy to be submitted to the unfccc in early 2020. the objective remains to create a modern, competitive, prosperous and climate-neutral society by 2050. at the same time, the demands of our citizens have spurred the european institutions to look again at what we need to do already in the 2030 perspective. the next european commission has already announced that it will work in earnest to raise the european union ambition higher than 40% or 45% greenhouse gas emission reductions by 2030. for the european union this is a continuous process that can only stop when the objectives of the paris agreement are fully reached. our efforts in this direction will continue well beyond our borders. the european union and its member states remain the largest contributor of public climate finance to developing countries, including to the multilateral climate funds, and have contributed eur 21.7 billion in climate finance for 2018, which is double the level of 2013. yet we all know that public finance alone will be insufficient to achieve the goals of the paris agreement. therefore, it is crucial to make swift and ambitious progress to make all finance flows consistent with the paris agreement. to this end, following its action plan on financing sustainable growth, the commission launched in october the international platform for sustainable finance in order to deepen international cooperation and, where appropriate, coordination on sustainability approaches and initiatives for the capital markets. at the same time, we will continue to mainstream climate policies in all our international relations and in our development cooperation. we will continue to persuade others to follow the path of climate neutrality as soon as possible in the second half of this century, as science incites all of us to do, and we will offer all our partners dialogue, cooperation and support in doing so. let me conclude by saying that we should all offer our strong support to the chilean cop25 presidency with a view to a successful outcome in madrid. at the end of this session, let me take the opportunity to thank you for your exceptional collaboration over the last years. it has been an honour to serve in the juncker commission, and a special privilege to work with such dedicated parliamentarians here in the european parliament. i am at the same time humbled by all that we have achieved in these past five years, and proud of the leadership that the european union and its institutions have shown, at home and abroad, and in multilateral fora. together, we have achieved historic milestones, from the adoption and ratification of the paris agreement, through to the conclusion of a comprehensive legal framework on climate and energy in the form of the 2030 legislation and the clean energy package. all that with exceptional political consensus and support in both the european parliament and the council of ministers. this is exactly the european union at its best, an excellent example of european union added value for our citizens. what we have achieved puts in place a solid foundation for the next decades to enable us to go further and faster, as demanded by our european citizens, because, despite all we have done, alone it is not enough. and again, europe and its institutions must take the lead in going forward. i will remain your strongest supporter as you embark on this important task in the years ahead.
author. mr president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are just days after the climate catastrophe in venice, just weeks after donald trump confirmed the us withdrawal from the paris agreement, and we are now just hours away from the election, to be held in two days' time, of the new european commission, which has made the green deal action to combat climate change and biodiversity one of its priorities. we are also just days away from cop 25. so there is no better time to have this debate and declare a climate and environmental emergency in europe. we are in strasbourg on monday evening and on thursday we will have to vote on the climate and environmental emergency. i would like to say today to the european citizens who are following our debates that at the moment we are speaking, we are not sure that this parliament will vote on thursday on the climate and environmental emergency. yet several national parliaments have done so: the united kingdom, ireland, france, portugal, austria and others, with very different political majorities. i think that would be incomprehensible to european citizens, especially young europeans who have come en masse to the european elections to make a loud voice heard and say: 'do not let us down! we are 20 years old today; in 2050, we'll be living, we'll be 50 years old, and you want to leave us a world with three, four or five degrees of global warming? if we do not want this and if we want to send this message to our children, to all our children, including my own, we will have to vote in three days' time on a climate and environmental emergency. it would be, once again, a tremendous opportunity if the european parliament were the first continental parliament to say: 'europe is the first continent in the world to declare an environmental and climate emergency'. it would be an extraordinary opportunity; it would be an extraordinary message that we would send to our european citizens, of course, but also to the citizens of the rest of the world. after the message that donald trump sent them, which was basically saying, "go fuck yourself!" we need to send the exact opposite message. we care about them, we care about the climate issue for our citizens and for all the citizens of the world, because - it was recalled today - the main donor of official development assistance is the european union, and we can be proud of that. so this message is symbolic. of course, not everything will change overnight, and everyone is aware of that. but if we fail to send it, then the symbolism would be terrible. i therefore call on each member of this parliament to take responsibility. on thursday we shall have to vote, and as widely as possible. this is not a partisan issue, this is not a partisan issue of small-time politics, this is a collective responsibility issue. we must vote as other national colleagues have done on the climate and environmental emergency. in the short term, we also have a resolution on cop 25 and the new european commission which will be taking office in a few weeks. one of the big messages we have to send in this resolution - and i am sure we will - is to reduce our own co2 emissions well beyond the current targets that were mentioned by commissioner cañete and which are far below what the science is asking us to do. so what we need to do is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by 55 percent compared to 1990. it's what science asks us to do, it's not what emotion dictates, it's not what irrationality would ask or demand of us, it's what scientists ask us to do, and i think that as political leaders of the left, the right or the center, we need to listen to this scientific message and listen to the message of young people, and so support, in the resolution for cop 25, this demand to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that on thursday we will be able to live up to the history that lies ahead of us.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking our commissioner, miguel arias cañete. he had been very, very critical of the beginning of his term. he convinced me he was the one. and thank god, many of those who fought him in the beginning also recognized that he was a climate activist in europe and around the world. thank you for your work, commissioner. we must act urgently to prevent climate change from reaching extremely dangerous levels. we are in danger of reaching tipping points where climate change will feed itself and our children and grandchildren will no longer be able to stop climate change, no matter how much we try. i think that is something on which we can all agree. now there is this second resolution. pascal canfin spoke in french of urgence. in french i agree, in german the term "emergency" has a very negative sound, it has to do with panic, it also has to do with the fact that in the third reich in germany under this term democratic rights were abolished. i would therefore prefer to speak of an 'urgency'. we need urgent and sustained action. we need not panic, but we need to do something and bring the rest of the world with us. if we could agree on that, i'd be very, very happy. then we shall vote together here on thursday.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i too would like to thank commissioner cañete for his cooperation over the years, not least for the work you did on the ets negotiations. i really want to commend the cooperation we had there. ladies and gentlemen, before today's debate, new figures have just been presented which show that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere was at an all-time high last year. it's very serious. since the paris agreement was signed in 2015, the world's heat records have been shattered. and what we're seeing right now is that our house is literally on fire, and every day that we don't turn this around, this fire is going to get harder and harder to put out. for our planet, this is fatal; it requires that we act quickly and that we understand the gravity. we have a climate emergency in europe and the rest of the world, and as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to understand this gravity and act accordingly. the paris agreement is the framework we have to go by, but we are seeing at the moment that the member states are not doing enough to live up to the commitments that are required. the commitments to the paris agreement should be doubled. as it stands right now, we're heading for over three degrees of warming with temperature increases at that level. as a parliament we have a hugely important role to play in the run-up to the madrid climate summit and i must say that it is a and o that everything is going in the same direction in the world. we cannot allow controls that are actually counter to the efforts that are needed to bring down global warming. the eu member states still have fossil fuel subsidies worth an average of eur 55 billion a year, which is completely unreasonable and something our group wants to put an end to. we must also ensure that the international community lives up to the paris agreement, that the member states really do make the commitments, the national commitments, that are required and that includes our own member states. fellas, our house is on fire. let us, with our collective efforts, put out that fire and save our planet.
for the renew group. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, the best of the secretaries of state, tiilikainen. when we vote on the resolution on thursday, my fifth granddaughter, iris elvira, will be nine years old. so i owe my six grandchildren something for the next few decades. for that reason, when we discussed the objectives between us, it was quite easy to say that we are sticking to 55 per cent. it's the least we can do for future generations. it will also present serious challenges to the member states. we know that the key that existed, for example for burden sharing, placed more demands on finland than on bulgaria. as we raise the target, so will it be raised for everyone. so we are now fighting for about 55 per cent, and that is the objective we must stick to. i would also like to thank commissioner cañete for the good cooperation he has shown over the past five years. and i hope that the finnish presidency will also save my grandchildren.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you yet again for this important debate on climate. indeed, it’s going to be historic. if we are going to call the climate emergency this thursday, as the european parliament, we then have to follow up. that’s the crucial point. we can declare climate emergencies, but the people on the streets are not asking us for declarations, they are asking us for actions. at the european level, unfortunately – and it’s not your fault – when we go to madrid, the eu will come empty—handed. we can’t even say that the 2050 climate neutrality target will be embraced by the eu, for example, because in the czech republic, a renew prime minister is not signing up to that. that needs to change instead of declarations. what needs to change is that this house needs to change its own behaviour. so, finnish presidency, can you now put forward a question to all the heads of state, asking that we finally stop the nonsense of the travelling circus of this european parliament. then we will be taking action. to the commission – i know it will not be you, it will be the new commission – it’s about time that this climate law talks about urgent actions and not just 2050 again. we have had enough of empty declarations. we need action.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i too would like to thank you very much for your cooperation and for your contribution to the adoption of the rulebook in katowice, because the katowice summit was of vital importance for the adoption of the paris agreement. my forewords call for honesty, so let's be honest about the fact that we need a just climate change that doesn't exclude anyone. but the commission's preliminary data only talks about five billion euros for about a dozen so-called coal regions, for about 50 coal regions. these are symbolic measures. you say our citizens want action. so i encourage you to combine the two european parliament seats and create one place where we can work and debate. then you will not be hypocrites.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a new record for greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 is being set today by the wmo. global concentrations of gas continue to rise rather than fall. the message that the european union must therefore bring to cop25 in madrid is only one: we have to do more, because what we are doing is not enough. we have to look at the transport sector, which has increased its emissions since 1990 and, even more paradoxically, there are no binding targets for reducing emissions in aviation and shipping. according to the imo, however, maritime emissions could even increase by up to 250% by 2050. this is simply unacceptable! so what's the solution? for example, the creation and establishment of emission control zones for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, as already exist in the north sea and the baltic sea but not in the mediterranean sea. the creation of an eca area in the mediterranean, in addition to reducing so2, co2, no2 and consequently particulate matter and ozone, would prevent 10 000 premature deaths by 2050. the costs would be more than offset by the benefits of such action.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask you, sir, if you are so adamant about saying no to fossil fuels, if you also want to reject gas energy and nuclear energy, what do you want to replace it with? the most important issue is social justice and energy exclusion. in the european union, nearly 50 million people suffer from energy poverty. today, they can no longer afford to heat or cool their homes, depending on where they live. have you noticed the yellow vest protests in france, the growing problem of energy poverty?
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu needs to do much more than we are doing today. although we made a lot of progress during the last term of office under commissioner cañetes, we can still see that most of the cars sold today are still fossil-fuelled. we see the need for energy increasing year by year, and yet renewables are not meeting the increased need, and it is still fossil energy that meets the majority of our energy needs. 73% of all energy in the european union is still fossil. this means that we need to take strong action to get more of the renewal, to reshape the transport sector and to reshape the construction sector. but we also have some easy targets that we haven't even started working on. i'm glad you're all wearing clothes in here today, but that also means you're contributing 12 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions. we haven't even managed to get a recycling system for clothing fibers. we have not been able to put in place a recycling system to reduce the food waste that is causing some 30 to 35 per cent of all the food produced on our farms in the eu to be thrown into landfills. so we still have a lot of work to do at home. but it is clear that we must do more together, also globally.
madam president, i am an engineer and an industrial entrepreneur. i have this intimate need to understand how to reach goals. we all agree that we need to do something about climate change, but how? my team and i analysed, for the best part of two months, how to reach the paris agreement goals and we could not find a good technical answer. we then asked everybody and the only answer we got was that we raise taxes and then see what we do. this is not good. also, nobody commented on the fact that the us, india and china are not doing anything about this and are therefore making the european efforts totally useless. now we want to raise the bar. this is problematic because we, as the european parliament, have a moral duty to explain to eu citizens how we intend to reach the goals, and how we intend to do this without killing their livelihoods and the economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find the debate on the climate emergency to be frankly tiresome and almost useless. for you, immigration is not an emergency, jobs are not an emergency, trade relations with other countries are not an emergency, corporate crises are not an emergency. the emergency is the fashion of the moment, and so, in short, with greta actually giving the agenda to this european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the president of the commission now looks like an environmental fundamentalist. you've come to deny what they say about scientists who don't respect the line you have. i would like to see a parliament that starts to deal with real problems and is also a little more realistic and concrete.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one in three women worldwide has been the victim of physical or psychological violence at least once in her life. this violence is also perpetrated in countries considered more developed, where there are still areas of cultural backwardness, and this is also due to uncontrolled migration flows from territories where women are still considered deeply submissive. it is no coincidence that in italy 67% of femicides are perpetrated against foreign women. in italy, however, thanks to the red code demanded by the league, the strength and courage to denounce these acts of violence have also increased. italy has ratified the istanbul convention, but that is not enough, we must do more. that's why i say that every day of the year should be considered as remembered as november 25th. it is not just today, but also tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and every day of the year that we must fight for this battle of civilisation which cannot be confined to a single event, after which the spotlights go out, but the violence continues every day.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the next european council on 12 and 13 december, the issue of climate change will be discussed with a view to finalizing a strategy for climate neutrality in 2050. to achieve this, the european union is asking european industry, for example steelworks, to implement a programme to phase out coal, involving major investment in new production technologies. this will require a long and complicated industrial transition, which will inevitably have a negative impact on european industry in economic and employment terms. i wonder, therefore, whether the european council intends to support european industry by means of appropriate financial instruments to ensure the competitiveness of our industry, especially in relation to china, india and the united states, countries which do not share europe's fight against climate change, even by means of the energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again parliament and the council have reached an agreement which, in my view, should invest more in two key areas of this european union, namely the fight against climate change and support for youth employment. we need a more solid and consistent commitment in these two areas, which i consider to be key, and above all i hope that the commission will be courageous in respecting the will expressed in the declarations during the negotiations. these are the key points for the future and i hope that these negotiations, including the multiannual financial framework, will take them into account. what has happened in italy in recent days, with the collapse of a viaduct - yet another unfortunate incident - shows us that the fight against climate change is more our business than we think, and above all that we must invest in prevention, for a strong and shared policy that europe must promote. i appreciate, on the other hand, the cuts agreed with turkey. i say this because we must support civil society that wants to fight for democracy. we cannot afford to finance war-mongering regimes, as far as i'm concerned. i will therefore support the agreement reached, even though the negotiations have once again shown how difficult it is to strike a balance between a union which wants to respect its budget and the member states which are having difficulties in complying with these constraints. i think we need to reverse course on this.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union budget is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the success of the debate was due to the presence of two excellent rapporteurs, our dear colleague monika hohlmeier and eider gardiazabal rubial, but also our coordinator, josé manuel fernandes, the chairman of the committee on budgets and the whole team, who really fought hard in the conciliation. at the time when the fight for these funds was being waged, some were absent, such as the left, which did not come to the field to fight, to increase funds for the youth, for climate change, for farmers, for the countryside, for technology, for the digital economy, but it has the right to criticize, it has the right to vote against these funds that were won through the struggle of dear colleagues at the time of the trade-off. we believe that this success of the budget does not only reflect on all of us, but also on our own member states. we also want more money for the budget. and we want more billions. but we must all work together to increase the contribution of countries. the left cannot ask for more funds if it does not participate and if it does not demand an increase in these contributions from the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for those countries which violate human rights, which violate the rule of law, which invade countries of the european union and which do not respect the principles and values of the european union, not only must funds be reduced, but they must be abolished altogether. and that is our demand and that is our fight until the last euro given to turkey is abolished.
mr president, i do not think it is the case that tomorrow we will vote on the 2020 budget, together with the new commission, because maybe tomorrow – and i hope so – a new political phase is going to start. the 2020 budget, which is actually the largest one of the last mff, and for which i thank the whole conciliation team, is actually a transition budget. it projects us into the future, because the real challenge is going to be the new mff. we have to decide whether we want to be ambitious or shy, and whether we would like to work in an expansive – though responsible – way, maybe facing a new economic crisis, or if we want to go on with business as usual. two things are very clear. we need new own resources to finance the goals we want to achieve, and both are connected to climate change and to the internal market. we also need a new mff centred on well—rooted european policies, like cohesion policy and agricultural policy, but also linked to the new policies like, for instance, the implementation of the social pillar. budgetary policies are, as you know, at the core of political institutions. they represent the way we respond to citizens, but they also represent the way in which we can show what we do or do not do. numbers do not lie. so i hope we will be very courageous.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'venice sinks', 'venice is flogged', 'venice is submerged' are just some of the headlines in newspapers around the world after the high water on 12 november and the following days caused incalculable damage to venice. true, bad weather has affected several regions of italy. i express my deep sympathy here in strasbourg today to all the people affected and to my own country. venice, however, is unique and does not belong only to the italian state but to all of europe and the whole world. venice is a combination of western and eastern humanism, the historical stratification of its monuments, with its imposing basilica of san marco, heavily damaged by this new flood. to see venice wounded and destroyed by the water that flooded it everywhere was a real blow to the heart. wounded but proudly holding her head high, as is the character of the venetians: proud, hardworking and never sleepy. the words of a poem say: "by the water overwhelmed, by the sea betrayed, once again venice is wounded", and then "venice, you are alone!" but they also say, "but the dawn is near, the day wants you, be strong, queen, the sun will come". today we must show that venice is not alone. venice needs everyone, it needs europe. venice with its territory, with the islands of the lido and pellestrina, with the reality of chioggia and the coastline. i am here today to represent, as a venetian, the loud cry of pain that has been raised and that europe must heed, without wasting time, because the further we go the greater the risks. this time europe must not turn its head the other way. it is essential that we not only send out messages of solidarity but also take concrete, concrete action, with mechanisms to make it immediate and more responsive. the work of the civil protection, fire and volunteer services, the expectations and needs of citizens and economic operators demand that this europe be swift and immediate. the solidarity fund needs to be revised today because it is complex in its activation. we need special ad hoc funds for particularly sensitive and difficult areas, possibly with direct management of the regions, and leaner and less bureaucratic procedures. venice, and not only venice, expects this from europe, quickly and without loss of time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental disasters are continuing to affect every country in europe, from north to south. last week, a world heritage site like venice suffered severe flood damage. the eu solidarity fund should be released as soon as possible and investment in land conservation should be facilitated, but it is likely that what happened in venice will happen again. the latest report from the un environment agency says that temperatures have risen 3.2 degrees from pre-industrial levels, with a high risk of destructive weather events. the reason? global greenhouse gases continue to rise, despite efforts to limit them. europe has decided to aim for a green new deal, but its vision must be global and very ambitious indeed. the european states must become an example of how development and environmental protection can go hand in hand. europe can and must become a reference point and a successful model for the newly industrialized states which continue to increase their emissions of polluting gases. and it can only do so by putting in place successful actions, with major investments in green reconversion. we must certainly focus on research, development and new technologies, but always with the emphasis on enterprises, which must not be left alone in this process, but must gain a competitive advantage in the medium and long term.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'total and apocalyptic devastation' is how the governor of the veneto region, luca zaia, described the emergency situation caused by the flooding on 12 november which affected the city of venice, the lagoon and the venetian coast. the damage caused to infrastructure, businesses, public and private property and to the cultural heritage of venice is over a billion. particularly affected are the basilicas of san marco, murano, torcello, not to mention the impressive number of churches, 120, half of which were submerged, causing damage exceeding, for churches alone, 3 million euros. the damage to the library and the conservatory is extensive: a number of important musical documents have been compromised, including scores by composers such as vivaldi and beethoven. the european union cannot remain indifferent to the catastrophe that has struck venice and its lagoon, a unesco world heritage site. this is the moment to show that the european union is not just a union of big financial interests but also of the people for the people. the european solidarity fund should therefore be mobilised immediately, with additional extraordinary funds to be made available for the safeguarding of a unique cultural heritage such as that of our great city.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my solidarity with all the citizens who have been affected by the terrible wave of bad weather which has hit the whole of italy, and in particular the veneto region, friuli-venezia giulia, trentino-alto adige and emilia romagna. i thank the civil protection and the volunteers who have helped and are helping citizens in need. venice, its lagoon, the venetian coastline, from jesolo to chioggia, have been plagued by floods and tidal waves. homes, businesses, public and private properties, historic buildings, 70 churches, landmarks such as st. mark's basilica were devastated by the high water. over 80% of venice has been submerged. we're talking about a billion in damages. in view of the emergency that has struck venice, europe has a duty to make all possible funds available immediately, starting with the european solidarity fund. our money must be used to help the people of venice, brought to their knees by the bad weather, and to secure a city unique in the world, which represents a historical and cultural landmark for all western civilization. the venetians reacted immediately, with heart and pride, they put on their boots and cleaned their houses and shops. the venetians are asking europe, and we are asking it, to cooperate fully in providing extraordinary funds to save venice, a city of world heritage. as they say in venice, "hard the benches!"
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is experiencing a time of great suffering because of increasingly violent weather events, which are affecting a territory of great beauty but dramatically fragile. almost 90 percent of my countrymen, as has been said, live in the shadow of hydrogeological risk and in 2018, last year, tens of thousands were landslides, as unfortunately dozens were the victims of those landslides. i myself, before becoming a member of the european parliament, was mayor of my own town for many years and i had to mourn the deaths of too many of my fellow citizens. we need to be concrete and we need to be now. we need to invest in the prevention strategy, economic investments to be calculated from the deficit-to-gdp ratio imposed by the european union, and we need to support the civil protection system of our nations, because when the time of need comes we need people and means ready to intervene and not the empty words of politics.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are regions in the union with particular seismic and hydrogeological features which increase the degree of vulnerability to weather phenomena. we think, for example, of the earthquakes that have struck the regions of central italy or of the floods that regularly hit the regions of northern italy, a tragedy that affected venice only a few days ago and is still before our eyes. the consequences of weather phenomena, however, require different responses to those which europe has so far given, partly because italian citizens are perfectly aware that they are net contributors and, consequently, have needs and expectations for different responses and expectations of a certain kind. the criteria for access to the european solidarity fund, although revised and simplified in 2014, continue to present limitations that still slow down the mobilisation of appropriations and do not exclude the risk that requests for mobilisation may be rejected even in the event of a real disaster. the european parliament has already called on several occasions for the accession criteria to be lowered, since they seem to be in contradiction with the emergency nature of the fund. the timing of the disbursement of appropriations is particularly difficult, given that the european commission has to spend six weeks on evaluation, and the deadlines for settlement are too long and cause difficulties for the beneficiary institutions. in conclusion, it is essential to include new indicators that go beyond the mere calculation of damage to gdp, as injuries to individuals and communities cannot be quantified by percentages alone.
madam president, it is all too clear that the european union is increasingly confronted with extreme weather events, which, as we have seen in these testimonies, result in the loss of property, of priceless cultural, material and natural heritage, and also, worse still, in the loss of lives. but i also recall that in 2018 alone, almost 18 million people around the world were forced to leave their homes, precisely because of climate phenomena. so no one is immune to this reality, as the honourable members have shown. and so there is an urgent need for action. the european union's civil protection mechanism, which we must urgently consider in terms of how to simplify its activation, will certainly be important in this fight. and so i welcome the commission's proposal to retain the principle of subsidiarity in the review of the mechanism, but i would remind the need to increase european union co-financing in order to support member states in better prevention, preparedness and response to disasters. finally, i would also urge the commission to review the conditions for the activation of the european union solidarity fund, stressing that not all regions have the same financial capacity to prevent and respond to crises that can take on gigantic proportions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen the dramatic images of italy, submerged from north to south, from licata to matera to venice, with ready reactions from volunteers and civil protection. we are here in strasbourg today to ask for the european union's concrete support, as we have already done with a written question from the league, by calling for the rapid mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund and unblocking all the economic aid that can be granted. it is also necessary that the affected territories can enjoy the exception to the automatic decommitment of resources from eu funds and that italy is given the right flexibility for the money spent on damage caused by natural disasters, especially for the territories with the greatest deficiencies. a europe that protects its citizens must be present in times of need and must be able to give concrete answers to the real problems, the ones that citizens expect, immediate help to start building again with a view to the future.
madam president, i come from croatia, a country proud of its cultural heritage. croatia has as many as ten unesco protected sites, mostly located along the adriatic coast. however, according to a report by the european environment agency, croatia is one of the three european countries with the highest cumulative share of damage from extreme weather and climate events in relation to gross national product. according to a 2017 study, as many as 37 sites in the mediterranean are threatened by flooding and 42 by erosion. among them are the most famous croatian protected sites such as the old town in dubrovnik, diocletian's palace and st. james' cathedral. in addition to the cultural heritage, our citizens will be directly affected, as up to a third of the eu population lives within 50 kilometres of the coastline. it is high time we declared a climate crisis and implemented urgent measures to reverse global warming trends. a priceless cultural heritage has withstood the ravages of history for thousands of years. let's not let it be destroyed by climate change that we ourselves have caused.
i have to say, madam president, of course, such extreme weather is always particularly tragic and, of course, dramatic for the people affected. the first thing to do is to get help quickly and unbureaucratically. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe, and to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of central and eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe, to help the countries of eastern europe. but the discussion is being conducted here again in a remarkably hypocritical way, because again it is climate change that is to blame, that is soon to blame for everything. but if we look inside, we know that natural disasters have always existed and will always exist. we'll have to live with that. it's a way of mother nature showing us that we don't own this planet. we'll have to live with that. but in the area of venice, of course, it is particularly dramatic because it is also a world heritage site which must be saved and is threatened by these constant floods. but it's not just climate change that's causing the problem there, it's also man, who, by widening the canals for years to allow even bigger ships to come into the city, is making sure that, of course, now more water can enter this city. in this sense, protection and assistance must be guaranteed, but let us have a more nuanced discussion.
madam president, what we are experiencing at the moment are truly extreme weather events - across the continent, in fact - which are of particular importance to urban areas. we're experiencing changes in rainfall patterns, long droughts or, conversely, storms and heavy rainfall followed by floods, long high temperatures. these are the typical phenomena at this moment for almost the entire continent. these years have seen the longest drought, even in the czech republic. i would like to mention that a number of european countries are indeed very fundamentally affected. what do we have to do? i think it's increasing the resilience of urban areas in terms of adaptation. the main objective in addressing the impacts of extreme temperatures is to reduce the vulnerability of human societies. extremely high temperatures lead to significant deterioration of the indoor environment of buildings, overheating, increase of air conditioning systems, especially in urban agglomerations. in an urban environment, the emergence of a so-called urban heat island should be prevented or reduced by promoting a lower surface albedo, for example by increasing the proportion of vegetation areas to soil, by using water elements and by reducing the outflow of water from the urban environment. what should be our primary focus? increase the protection of critical infrastructure, adapt buildings to climate change, enhance environmental stability, ensure the flexibility and reliability of the transport sector and foster the development of an integrated rescue system.
madam president, our cultural heritage is more than ancient historical monuments. it’s also the landscape itself and the urban environment. our towns and cities rely heavily on their cultural heritage as an income generator through tourism. taking care of our cultural heritage can also improve the quality of life for the local population. we must therefore do our utmost to protect cultural heritage from the effects of extreme meteorological events, which is an increasing threat due to climate change. a good example of eu action is the storm project, which safeguards cultural heritage through the management of technical resources. the mellor heritage site in my constituency of stockport, greater manchester, is one of the projects to benefit from this innovative eu collaboration. meanwhile eu cohesion policy continues to provide an important source of funding for cultural heritage of eur 351.8 billion over the past seven years, and that must continue to be a commitment over the next mff. cultural heritage is our common inheritance and it’s our duty to protect and preserve it for future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still looking at the dramatic images of venice on the high seas. landslides have hit areas like lombardy, piedmont and liguria and many others in italy. unique places in the world, think of venice, which you all know, and which is a world heritage site. in italy there are 600 000 landslides, affecting 7.9% of the national territory; 91% of italian municipalities have at least one area at risk of landslides or flooding or flooding. europe is doing absolutely nothing. the league has tabled an urgent question calling for the immediate mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. but it is equally necessary, of course, to be able to spend our money to repair our territory. so we must not include the expenditure on fighting hydrogeological disruption in the deficit calculation, thus allowing us to use those funds without straining the stability pact. only then could we finally heal our italian territory.
madam president, please. i am convinced that strengthening civil protection in the face of weather-related disasters is one of the most important priorities. our primary task is to reduce disaster risks in accordance with the standby framework. when trouble is inevitable, however, all our fellow humans need to be informed in a timely and appropriate manner of the emergency measures to be taken. this will also ensure that the protection of urban areas and cultural heritage will be more effective in the future. it is very important for everyone to have an effective and accessible warning system. it is also vital that those in distress receive immediate help. but how does one call for help if he is deaf or blind or has limited mobility? i believe that by introducing the technologies and applications currently available, we will ensure that people in distress in all eu countries can be informed of emergencies and can call for help for themselves or their fellow human beings when needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too cannot but express my concern at the damage and the emergencies that have affected my country and in particular the north-east regions. the data are alarming but worth citing again: in italy we have 6 million citizens at risk of flooding, 1.5 million at risk of landslides, 61 000 landslides have been counted - 8% of the italian territory - and 40 000 cultural assets are at risk. in emilia-romagna, between 2 and 20 november, there were 17 alerts, many of them with a red alert level, with 800 firefighters and 450 volunteer teams, which i thank. in addition to the damage, of course, there are the administrative aspects. the major and minor projects which are lagging behind will have to be worked on above all at national level. europe has done so far, it has not turned the other way, because with the solidarity fund italy has obtained two and a half billion since 2002. we now ask for a further step, as article 11 of the treaty on european union says: the commission has already proposed that environmental protection be integrated into all the european structural funds, in particular the regional development fund and the rural development fund. that is the extra step we are asking for.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of recent climate change, which is causing more and more frequent extreme weather events in our territories and also frequent earthquakes, and in view of the fact that many european countries have urban centres of great historical and artistic interest for the whole union, some of which are geographically more exposed to the risks of serious damage caused by bad weather and earthquakes - as is the case for venice, matera and also the city of l'aquila in italy - i believe that the logic of the european commission's proposal for a no longer just an emergency approach to the protection of europe's historical and cultural heritage is correct. in practical terms, i think that we must take action ex ante to make these sites safe, first by carrying out a census of them, as indicated by each member state, and by creating a ranking of the most important and at-risk sites, and then by having appropriate studies on the measures needed to prevent environmental and seismic damage, quantifying the costs and the time needed to implement them. on this basis, a strategic plan for safeguarding, on a european initiative, should be drawn up and financed with the funds we already have for cohesion, the environment and infrastructure. only with such a global project can the european union really protect its cultural, historical and artistic heritage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, venice is certainly the most striking case, but i could mention matera in basilicata and other cities in the south of the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. from 2014 to 2018, italy suffered €8 billion in damage from bad weather. europe, through the solidarity fund, has helped our beautiful country with 740 million euros. help, but also delay. in september 2019 alone, one year after the disastrous events in the north east of italy, the commission released €277 million. italy is not just bad weather. unfortunately, it is also earthquakes, as in molise, abruzzo, calabria and emilia-romagna. damage amounted to 2.5 billion euros. an extremely succinct and dramatic picture and one that will not improve in the future. italy, with its immense cultural heritage, needs more than anyone speed in granting this type of funds. we have asked for this as the id group and i personally reiterate it here in this plenary. i also call for greater restrictions on the funds allocated to the maintenance of existing infrastructure.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, while you did give the epp speaker a slap on the wrist for going on too long, i think he made one of the best points here. he said that farmers shouldn’t have to pay the price for something they didn’t cause. it’s hard enough to get your head around this dispute even if you’re working here all the time, but to try and explain this to farmers is damned difficult. they have enough going on without trying to explain to them that a problem with the aeroplanes is going to result in potentially them going out of business, because while you’re explaining it to them, they’re also asking you to explain: ‘how can i expect the commission to help me when these people who are meant to be helping me are going along signing another deal with mercosur countries, which will make things even more difficult for us?’. one thing that has to be done is that we need concrete support measures – real measures to help farmers here, and not measures like those that were put in place in ireland in response to brexit or provisionally signing up to mercosur, which paid the most sustainable beef farmers on the planet to go out of business: we don’t want that type of support. at the end of this, farmers have got to come out of it all right. it’s very hard to believe how they will, though, because they usually are the ones who – both in a literal sense and in a metaphorical sense – end up with the shit on their hands.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with the task of defending our farmers in a dispute which has nothing to do with agriculture. it is unbelievable that they should have to pay the consequences of a legal issue that concerns the air transport industry. the usa is the leading importer of european agricultural products, with a value of eur 22,3 billion in 2018, representing 16,2% of total exports. so an increase in tariffs can have harmful and dangerous consequences. we therefore call on the commission to give a coordinated and united response in defence of all the products affected by these new duties, and to avoid a division between member states, which is unfortunately possible because of the unequal distribution of these duties, which risk hitting our own peoples most severely, and which europe must protect at all costs. we call, after having heard the trade associations, for immediate compensatory action through new or old instruments within the wto and we hope for new funds for projects to promote european products in the usa and other third countries. this financial allocation to compensate for the damage to agricultural enterprises and cooperatives must, however, be found outside the agricultural and cap budgets and must be weighed against the effects on the various sectors and products. it is necessary to ensure that european agriculture has the resources to avoid being harmed by events that do not concern it, and to do so without taking a single euro from the only truly integrated sector in the union, the most important one for the future.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. after some 15 years, the wto has concluded that airbus has received too much state aid. it would be the most logical thing in the world that either airbus has to pay back this money or, if there are tariffs, that these tariffs are passed on to the products of this company. but no, farmers are at least partly allowed to eat the soup by making it harder for agricultural products to enter the market in the united states. it is also a problem that farmers are being turned against each other because different products are subject to different customs duties in different member states, which is of course a problem in the internal market. in fact, there should be a huge outcry in europe. but it doesn't really exist, and i have the impression that the industry doesn't really fit that solution too badly. the farmers will have to pay for some of it. it is also a little easy to say: yes, let's see that the agricultural products are sold elsewhere. i have to say this quite frankly: as soon as there was a threat that european cars would be subject to tariffs in the united states, we didn't tell the car manufacturers that you would get a little money so that you could sell the cars tomorrow in nigeria or saudi arabia. we have made a point of not having these duties levied. that is why i ask the commission to take this matter very seriously and to try to find a solution to this trade conflict. everything else is very, very harmful to european farmers in the long run.
madam president, commissioner malmström, the new european commission - which i hope will receive the majority support of this house tomorrow - must make the resolution of this trade conflict a priority. as was the case with the russian veto, and as has been mentioned by other colleagues, farmers end up paying the price for the disputes caused by political action or by other sectors. as long as this situation persists, compensatory measures and support for the sectors and products concerned must be adopted. we need measures within the framework of the cap: private storage is a good measure for 'especially damaged' spanish olive oil or other products, or withdrawal from fresh production. we must also coordinate measures for promotion and the search for new alternative markets, and make the promotion aid regulation more flexible. that said, we need to look beyond the cap and promotion; we need to put in place additional and urgent support for the sectors concerned. this is the main message i want to convey to you, commissioner malmström: the need for measures to prevent the damage caused by the us tariff policies. these tariffs are unfair and are applied unequally to the member states targeted by this attack, breaking up the unity of the market and attempting to break up our unity of political action. in spain alone, these sanctions put more than 5 000 jobs at risk and will lead to losses of more than eur 1 093 million. last year i denounced the increase in the tariffs on table olives. here is the wto decision. we need firm, urgent and appropriate responses so that the sectors concerned feel that this new commission and europe are with them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, why did the commission, when german cars were simply threatened with duties, throw its fists on the table and now that there are duties in the agri-food sector, the commission is actually silent? the consequences are being borne by countries like italy, which have nothing to do with the financing of airbus. the food industry has already been hit by the russian embargo. the wto must be reformed, but the european union must commit itself to giving the states the tools to intervene and to limit the consequences of tariffs in some way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the effects of the crisis. we therefore ask that the european union should help in some way by increasing funding for the promotion of these products on the american market. the agri-food sector deserves much more attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the ecr group we will support the joint motion for a resolution because all the member states of the european union are harmed by the us tariffs and agri-food companies are the most harmed of all. but for the sake of truth two things must be said and emphasized. firstly, the wto case against the european union for its illegal subsidies to airbus goes back 15 years and has been brought by three american presidents, both republican and democrat. secondly, european subsidies to the franco-german airbus consortium have harmed not only the american boeing but also other european companies, such as the italian fincantieri-leonardo. unfortunately, it is mainly the farmers, the breeders, the italian and european producers who are the losers. that is why we are calling for concrete and immediate compensation for them.
madam president, the subsidy policy is extremely widespread in europe. everything is subsidised, including what the market can support, but also those sectors which should have been self-sustaining long ago. this practice has been going on since ancient times and it is unlikely to end because politics is too closely linked to the individual economic giants and thus suits them. all this is always done through the backs of small and medium-sized enterprises, and so it will be this time. because of illegal subsidies to airbus, european farmers will face new tariffs on exports to america. it is high time, after decades, to review the policy of subsidies. small, promising and innovative companies should receive subsidies, and only until they are large enough to exist on their own in the market. by subsidizing big companies, we kill competitiveness, we kill innovation, and we limit growth. it's bad economic policy.
madam president, it struck me when i was preparing for this debate that the common agricultural policy and subsidies to farmers is heavily criticised as being complex. well it pales into insignificance when we look at the complexity of the subsidies for the aircraft industry, and that is worth bearing in mind. i think all of us know that there’s nothing worse than being penalised for something that you didn’t do, and our farmers are being penalised for something that they have no hand, act, or part in – and that’s very troubling. and of course, the idea of the us is working, because we’re debating it here this evening. it’s hurting people on the ground and we have to find a solution. so i have a question for the commission, because you did mention that efforts are being made that a credible offer was made by the eu, but not taken up yet. i’d like more information and detail on that. are subsidies still being paid to the aircraft industries? what’s happening to the boeing airbus situation? but i know that farmers are definitely hurting and angry. i don’t know about your member state, but it is interesting that in the netherlands, in germany and in ireland today, there are tractor protests in capital cities. this is not being done by organisations of farmers: it is individuals who have decided – because they are angry over many things (not just this issue, but many, many things) – to strike back. i think, as we move towards the climate issue – because there’s been a lot of climate shaming – we have to be mindful of our words, because rural europe is in difficulty and this issue must be addressed.
madam president, i fully support the resolution we are debating today and i ask all the representatives of parliament to support it next thursday. i support it because, on the one hand, it is very critical, as it cannot be otherwise, of the attitude of the united states policy and, on the other hand, because it recognizes the enormous effort that the commission is making - and i recognize the commissioner - to try to avoid this situation. a situation which, of course, is absolutely unfair. no one can understand that because of the aid received by one sector, which of course had nothing to do with agriculture, other sectors are now suffering an increase in their tariffs which prevents many of them from reaching the north american market. and i would point out that one of the products concerned, the valencian clementines, has sold zero since the tariffs were raised in the united states. and that has happened in many other affected sectors. but i think that in addition to calling - as we do - for measures to be taken to alleviate the serious consequences for the sector, it is also important, above all, to address the substance of the matter. and i think that in order to try to ensure that the sector is not so unfairly affected by these sanctions, in the context of the reform of the wto - in which the commission is playing a very important role - we should also tackle the reform of the sanctions system. if we want citizens to support rules-based trade, the rules must be fair.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the world trade organisation has given the united states the right to impose duties on the european union, which is alleged to have provided illegal subsidies to the airbus aircraft manufacturer. italy, although not part of the consortium and therefore not directly responsible for this dispute, could suffer considerable economic damage as part of the duties are expected to affect the agri-food sector. the aeronautics sector is one of the most complex industries in terms of development, production and financing. the specific nature of the sector therefore requires a global subsidy framework which allows all operators to compete on an equal footing, but which does not make those who have nothing to do with the sector pay the price for certain behaviour. i therefore ask the commission to adopt and say what specific measures it intends to take to reduce the impact of the us tariffs on italian agri-food exports.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what challenges await the new european commission! but challenges, to be won, need credibility. mrs von der leyen, you said you wanted to increase foreign policy spending by 30%, but it is not enough to throw away taxpayers' money to overcome the legitimately different positions of the various states. secondly, do we really need an eu office in fiji or barbados? the weather: vice-president timmermans would like to see europe as a climate champion, but if third countries do not do their part, if they do not accept commitments, we will only have burdens for our citizens and our businesses. national budgets: we hope that we will no longer see the constraints and parameters that are used by the european commission to judge whether a democratically elected government is liked or not. i'll conclude with a thought: how can you think of yourself as an inclusive commission if you have refused to be compared with the representatives of the millions of citizens who in may called for a break with the past? good luck, you're going to need it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, are we really talking about interference by other countries in our democracy and our elections yet again? i really think we're in the tragicomic. you don't understand the people's vote. you see the brexit vote, trump, bolsonaro, the victories of the sovereignists in europe or the triumph of matteo salvini's league in the european elections and you wonder how this is possible, it's a mystery to you. so you try to justify the popular vote, which you don't accept, by inventing absurd conspiracies and going to gag the internet, because you think we are the producers of fake news. it is a pity that you are the ones who are giving them the nonsensical news, with your europeanist propaganda paid for by taxpayers. it is your fault, and yours alone, that europe is becoming less and less popular. you're locked in your palaces and unable to listen and respond to the needs of the citizens. you're killing the populists because you're incapable of listening to the people and giving them answers. but i have to say, you really keep it up! do not criticize yourself and invent conspiracy justifications for the popular vote. we will continue to stand among the people, respond to the needs of the citizens and defend the interests of our country with pride and head held high.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we live today, it is good to remember, in solid, mature democracies, which are obviously the essential basis for building peace and respect for the rights and dignity of citizens. solid and mature democracies that could suddenly find themselves fragile under unprejudiced attacks of various kinds. from disinformation campaigns on social media to alleged direct and indirect funding, we have witnessed worrying and dangerous external interference, which could even multiply and intensify. interference that is clearly to the advantage of forces that pursue a simple objective: we must not forget that the european union is a great power. europe must respond and there are many dark spots to look at with suspicion. we think, for example, of the shameful behaviour of the former italian minister of the interior, matteo salvini, who has not yet had the political courage to speak publicly about the extremely opaque relationship which linked him to russia through meetings that everyone should clarify.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative mogherini, according to the american secretary of state, jewish settlements in the west bank do not violate international law. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union, on the other hand, requires israel to indicate on the label of its products whether they come from settlements located in one of the so-called occupied territories. why is europe not interested in labelling any of the more than 200 products in territorial disputes in the world in the same way? the protests of the sunni arab states to washington's policy have been weak and show how the main concern is the iranian action. the european union continues to target israel, the only true democracy in the middle east, when it should be the enemy to fight, islamic terrorism. the european union gives millions of euros to the islamic turkey but forgets to label it for the occupation of cyprus. is netanyahu right, then, in speaking of a new anti-semitism in europe?
the commission is not prepared to accept this. we obviously largely agree that pompeo and trump's legitimization of netanyahu's settlement policy tramples on international law. the spiral of conflict between missile fire and expulsion is entering the next round. luxembourg's foreign minister asselborn is proposing a new wave of european recognition of palestine with east jerusalem as its capital. this is charming, but it is only one of the objectives of eu policy in the middle east. we will not defend oslo if we want to tackle the continuing failure of the peace process between israel and palestine, apart from peace solutions for syria, for example, or for the whole region. how credible is our diplomacy in the middle east when we are pursuing an eu policy of isolation with turkey and libya? how credible are we when member states are supporting international law failures everywhere with arms exports and the training of security forces? we need an international peace conference to find honest answers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs federica mogherini for all she has done. we must look with great concern at the situation which has been developing for some time in israel and palestine, a situation which requires europe and the international community to react decisively. we need european leadership to try to find a way back to the two-state solution, and we must continue on this path without hesitation. a solution which, if it is to be achieved, must be based on mutual respect and the implementation of fundamental rights: the right of the state of israel to live in peace and security within the borders recognized by the international community and the absolutely identical right of the palestinian people to have their state, sovereignty and legitimacy recognized within those borders. we must also be explicit in denouncing what is going in the opposite direction. the policy of the netanyahu government on the settlements, for example, has been a tremendously destabilizing factor, an additional and enormous element of unjustifiable tension and contrary to international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i would like to recall the five italian soldiers who were injured in an attack in the kirkuk area of iraq on the eve of the anniversary of the massacre in nasiriyah. in iraq, the demonstrations these days are the most intense since 2005 and are taking place mainly in shiite areas: it's about people who are looking for work and fighting corruption. the kurdish north and the areas affected by the territorial conquest of the islamic state have so far remained untouched by the demonstrations. attacks are increasing in iraq, and the islamic state is reorganizing. the european union cannot stand by and watch. one of the works that adorn the tunnel that runs from baghdad under tahrir square, the center of anti-government protests, depicts the face of jesus crowned with thorns, also a symbol of the iraqi sufferings. there are also christians in iraq, who have dropped from 1.5 million to 250,000 since 2003, and who are in danger of being erased after two thousand years of history. leaders of churches and christian communities are supporting the popular demonstrations of peaceful protest. trump has also rightly funded iraqi christian organizations. in iraq, the role of minorities is crucial to ensure that the region does not become a sunni-shia conflict. the european union must also support the christian minority in iraq.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violent street protests have rocked iran in recent weeks. what has the european union done? i'm not worried. we have here the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs, mogherini. what did you do? i'm not worried. europe has in recent years forgiven iran the unforgivable: torture, summary trials, threats to the west, even the financing of terrorism. he pretended there were no hangings. among those sentenced were 90 women, hanged in 2019 alone. what happened to feminists and #metoo movements? europe, instead of proposing modernity and freedom, has decided, in the name of oil and business, to engage in de facto dialogue with the ayatollah. so i ask, simply: in view of the dead, the injured, the censored internet, and the fact that the citizens there want the islamic republic to end, when will europe finally take notice and stand up for freedom and democracy?
madam president, commissioner, the relationship between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific acp countries must be based on genuine development cooperation, which is not based on self-interested views and neo-colonial cutting-edge practices, but on respect for the sovereignty of these countries. the future framework for cooperation must recognise and preserve the integrity and unity of the acp bloc. we therefore reject the attempts to divide and rule which were already evident in the european union's imposition at all costs of the so-called economic partnership agreements against the will of the acp countries, and which are again visible in the negotiation of the future partnership. in order to counteract the ways in which the acp countries become more dependent and subordinate, it is necessary to encourage the diversification of their economic base, to strengthen their production systems by encouraging their autonomy and coherence, to promote the development of public services, to invest in health, education, sanitation and water supply, housing and to make the best use of the endogenous potential of each country. the role of the european development fund must be strengthened by increasing its appropriations and aligning it with these priorities, rejecting any logic of conditionality to the acceptance of european union policies, particularly in the area of migration. we must break with the logic of structural adjustment policies, with free trade and with the constant attempts to export neoliberal models which have proved and are proving disastrous. the cancellation of the debts of the least developed countries, and i conclude, madam president, is a matter of justice which would allow additional resources to be channelled to development. this was approved at the recent joint parliamentary assembly in kigali, rwanda, and we wanted to highlight it here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are still many questions that remain open in the negotiations for a new partnership agreement between europe and the acp group of countries. sustainable growth and poverty reduction, rule of law and democracy, economic and cultural development, management of migration flows and climate change: these are the key issues to be re-launched in the context of enhanced joint cooperation beyond 2020. the cotonou agreement has enabled us to embark on the path of dialogue and cooperation, and in these years the results achieved have been important, but let us be frank, they are not significant. we are still light years away from the objectives of reducing and eliminating poverty and integrating the acp countries into the world economy. we therefore continue our path of open, democratic and comprehensive parliamentary dialogue and we never lose sight of respect for human rights and democratic principles and the rule of law, which must remain the basis of our cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i am sorry to see that the word 'religious freedom' has been removed from the title of this resolution, as if religion were a taboo. why can religious persecution, and particularly that against christians, not be openly discussed? i remember that algeria is the 22nd country in the world where it is most difficult to be a christian. we recalled earlier that in the month of october alone, the algerian government closed down three churches, including the largest in the country, arresting among others the faithful who were protesting, and often the victims of persecution are christians who converted from islam. we believe that religious freedom is a fundamental and inalienable right of the human person. sadly, in some quarters, hostility toward religion, especially christianity, is growing. i humbly take up the words of pope benedict xvi, when he says that there is a risk of understanding secularism in terms of a rejection of the social relevance of religion. for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, it was extremely important not to hide the words 'religious freedom' behind politically correct terminology.
mr president, i thank you for the time you have given me to commemorate the memory and work of an italian colleague of mine, who was the father of the erasmus programme and is therefore also a brother of this house. domenico leonarduzzi died last week at the age of 86 and, as you can imagine, he leaves an unbridgeable void in the family, because naturally he was a strong man, full of initiative and good will, but he also leaves the european community with a great memory and a great testimony of what can be a true common project to be shared, even if at other times our political positions look very far away. i would ask this house, if possible, to commemorate him in depth at another time. we did so in the empl committee and i know that other colleagues have joined us in this time of mourning. i would like to express to the family, to the daughters and grandchildren, our condolences and our participation in the personal and human grief, but above all i would like to share with you the person, the figure and the work of erasmus's father and remember him here.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that i am new here, i never really thought that i would receive the documents once in the chamber and then have to discuss them. i mean, i don't say much, but at least have them an hour early and be able to read two sheets, which i can't. it is obvious that this is the state of democracy in this house, and it is a little inconvenient to give the opposition the opportunity to read the documents under discussion. i heard about 50 steps to 2050... a dream book, cover ads. environmentally neutral by 2050: but have you considered the social and economic impacts of this? i understand that the commission needs to have a somewhat fashionable image, because you are not exactly popular, but it does not seem to me that shouting slogans or chasing the greta of the moment is the right way to go. he talked about promoting innovation and quality food. i wonder if by "quality food" you mean what we've seen with nutriscore, or tunisian oil, or african oranges. i say this because europe and european countries are required to have standards, and then we magically see you making trade agreements with countries that do not have these standards. the same thing with plastic: you keep talking about plastic free and then you make trade deals with countries where pollution is on the agenda. i've heard of batteries made in europe, but do you have in mind that today 70 percent of all the batteries in the world are made in china, japan and korea? then i heard about the evolution from coal to steel and now, you know, the ambition of electricity. i just wondered: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. maybe this is a doubt that only came to us but, you know, it seems pretty obvious you have spoken of investing 100 billion over the next seven years and yet you are still looking at the commas and demanding that countries respect budgetary constraints when they have to deal with their hydrogeological disruption. i say this, of course, because i come from italy, but this must apply to all countries. one last thing . i have the impression that i am hearing the juncker plan for the second time, the one that had the multiplier effect, that we would put in one euro and we would gain 1 500% more, but that was not the case. i hope that you will have the ability to see the reality of things and to go beyond the slogans with which you are filling your mouths.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what i wanted to say to mrs von der leyen before she left the chamber - i hope it was nothing personal - was that i shared a small part of her presentation, and i emphasize that it was a small part. however, as a form of mentis, i believe that in order to improve, we need to focus on the critical points. firstly, i wonder where we are going to get the money to finance what appears to be a re-edition of the juncker plan, given the sacredness of budgetary constraints. and i also take the liberty of trying to speak for not the big investors, the ones who can mobilize trillions, but for citizens and businesses who are very concerned about what the new green deal will be. the fear is that measures like these should be considered in the long term and with the necessary planning, so as to avoid them being reduced to very expensive commercials to satisfy public opinion or, worse, to become a burden for european companies, unlike those in third countries. for example, i am referring to the chinese pressure on the steel market. i wonder if the new green deal will take it upon itself to punish china's non-compliance, or will it choose to ignore the suffocation of our industry, as has happened so far. this is as if competitiveness were not among the problems that most burden european enterprises when confronted with the aggressiveness of international competition. if there is no competitiveness, market shares and jobs are lost and then companies relocate and, paradoxically, pollute in other countries. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i doubt we can go to the missing beneficiaries and tell them that their businesses will close but they will enjoy lower carbon emissions. in conclusion, madam president, i hope that the related lobbies will perhaps... (the president cut off the speaker)
i’m sorry, i’m not allowing you to conclude because you are over your time. and before i go any further, why is it me who has to always deliver the bad news on timing? because there is bad news on timing: we have 20 requests for catch—the—eye, but at the rate we are now proceeding, it will be very difficult to give the floor to anyone who wants a catch—the—eye. those who get the floor, would you please respect your time? i will give you a warning after five seconds and then i’ll be ruthless.
madam president, i have to say there are positive arguments coming from the presentation, but i still have many doubts about the feasibility of your ambitious programmes. we need a huge budget to realise the goals described, and we know that not all member states are in line with this. as you reported, we have to prevent the tremendous cost of non-actions. we know we don’t have any other options and we do need to invest now. we have dual ambitions: the safeguard of our planet and the safeguard of our labour market. to ensure this, we need to invest in research. we need to simplify the legislation to give access to funds; we need more transparent dialogue with our citizens; and we need to pay special attention to the poorest regions of our continent. during the last plenary we declared a climate and environment emergency. this was a desperate bid to raise awareness. we can’t stand more words. we need concrete actions and we need them now.
madam president, it's very good that we have this proposal on the table now. i hope that when you drew it up, you discussed it with all the directorates-general and that the proposal did not come from you alone, so that it is based on some feasible proposals. you have a legislative agenda; and that's a good thing. i would ask you to look at it again in the next period and see if the proposals are coordinated across the various areas so that we do not cause problems for another area when we legislate in a particular area. i hope that all these legislative proposals will be based on an impact assessment of both climate change and the effect on jobs and economic competitiveness. i hope that all these proposals will be based on intensive consultation with industry and on technologies that are now available and can be put into practice. i hope you will take action on the use of horizon europe. if it is still an emergency, as some say, then let's use horizon europe 100 per cent for innovation and not for fundamental research in this direction and then we will probably succeed. and i'm also asking you to look at the global chapter. there you have to... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, first of all let me express my gratitude to vice—president timmermans for all the efforts he has made in the last weeks. i would like to take the opportunity to urge all of us – and i emphasise all of us – to let’s make this european green deal a green new deal. let’s look back. in the 1930s, the new deal in the us, and later other demand—side economic policies in europe, created jobs, economic growth and unparalled social equality. this is what we need to repeat for the green industrial revolution. our investment in new greener technologies, such as battery production and green hydrogen, needs to be more ambitious and we need massive investment in modern infrastructure for green energy and transport, be it in big cities or in small villages. this is the way we should go, all together. thank you once again to mr timmermans.
madam president and commissioner timmermans, i cannot emphasise enough how important it is that the green deal be tinged with blue. we have to safeguard our seas. we poison the baltic. we over-fish the mediterranean. we declare marine protected areas and then leave them, in practice, unprotected. in some fisheries the catch that is thrown overboard still exceeds the catch that is landed, because the laws we passed are not enforced. but failure can be replaced by success. we can end overfishing once and for all, building on the achievements already being made. we can restore the rich biodiversity beneath our waves and help rebuild the stocks that will give a secure future to our fishing industry. by putting sustainability first, we will be well placed to lead negotiations globally in promoting good governance of the world’s oceans. vice-president, we face many environmental battles; this is one we can win. so please, seize the opportunity. you have the chance to transform the state of the seas and make a real difference for the better.
madam president, and dear missing president of the commission, ms von der leyen – i hope this is not a sign of the times to come: that she thinks she can avoid listening to a democratically—elected parliament – i want to state that i am 110% behind the new green deal, but i have two strong demands to the – missing – commission president, ms von der leyen. number one: force the us, india and china to follow our path, because otherwise our new green deal will be useless and counter—productive. number two: when you devise the operative plan to reach the goal, put business and companies and jobs as the highest priority, because we do not want all industries to relocate to africa, to turkey or to the us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we cannot but bow to those who have lost their lives or been wounded in the romanian revolution, to the families of the victims. i believe that one of the most valuable legacies we share in europe is that we have so many examples of how in our countries dedicated, courageous, brave men and women have repeatedly committed themselves to freedom and democracy, even at great personal cost. i think there is a great deal of consensus in this house on this point. however, we do not agree with the efforts of my group to introduce a new practice in the european parliament, namely that resolutions on the history of europe are being written piece by piece and then it is decided what is the 'truth' about european history. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't think that's helpful, no matter which way it comes from -- from the middle, from the left or from the right. i think it is a path we would be taking, and that is why our group is asking everyone else to reconsider whether we should really continue down this path. there are ways to show respect without going into this dead end.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the last act of that extraordinary season of people and freedom which we experienced in europe in 1989. we celebrate the courage of thousands of men and women in romania who sacrificed their lives so that their children could live in a nation finally free from communist oppression. and for that i want to quote the words of a great romanian christian intellectual and artist, camilian demetrescu: we were resigned to living forever outside our land in this west that could not or did not want to understand that the communist utopia was already condemned by history, there was only the puzzling hypothesis of the miracle. so in those days, all over the country, candles were put in the windows. other well, the miracle happened, but it was soaked in blood and it is right that the motion should be held to account, even though many years have passed. finally, in order for this to be more than rhetoric, and for the values that have sprung from the romanian revolution to continue to flourish in the world, i would like to address a thought to the young people of hong kong, who are being persecuted today by the chinese communist regime, with the world's disregard. we are once again courageous dreamers, like the young people of timisoara and bucharest, like the young people of tiananmen square in that extraordinary year of 1989.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you all for the quality of our debate, and also for the very large support to the proposals that we are discussing. i will make only two remarks. one is, as many of you have said, administrative cooperation will be key in this process and member states’ tax authorities should make full use of the new and existing instruments. second, we obviously need to take new steps forward – ambitious ones – because of the dimension of the problem that we are facing. we will work hand in hand. i would like to inform you that the commission will organise a conference to discuss how tax compliance and the fight against fraud can be improved. i hope that your input to this conference will be valuable. from this conference, we will bring results to the new action plan on fighting fraud and ensuring compliance, as i said before. i strongly welcome and value the contribution of the parliament in these issues. you can count on my full commitment to work with you in the next five years to ensure a fair tax environment in europe. this, i think, is a common commitment of the commission and the parliament.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 17 december 2019.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the council recommendation on the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank (12451/2019 – c9-0149/2019 – 2019/0817(nle)) (a9—0049/2019), and– the report by irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the council recommendation on the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank (13651/2019 – c9-0173/2019 – 2019/0818(nle)) (a9-0046/2019). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, using the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle.
rapporteur. – madam president, with these two reports that will be voted tomorrow, the european parliament expresses its non-binding opinion on the appointment of two new members of the executive board of the european central bank. over the last month, the council has recommended the names of fabio panetta and isabel schnabel and on both candidates the european central bank has expressed its positive opinion. the curricula vitae sent to us by the president of the european council clearly show how both candidates are persons of recognised standing and professional experience in monetary or banking matters, as required by article 238 of the treaty. fabio panetta has spent his professional career of over 30 years as a central banker. he has served in important positions at national, european and international level, and he is currently the senior deputy governor of the bank of italy. isabel schnabel is a distinguished scholar of one of the most prestigious european universities and for five years she has been a member of the council of economic advisers of germany. the econ committee submitted to the two candidates a written questionnaire of over 50 questions and subsequently organised a public hearing. the vast support received by fabio panetta and isabel schnabel, 90% and 70% respectively, demonstrates the very wide appreciation of the econ committee for these two excellent candidates. however, the two reports do not simply express our support for fabio panetta and isabel schnabel; they recall and renew battles that the european parliament has been fighting for some time. first and foremost, the battle for a selection and appointing procedure that involved the parliament more. of course, we appreciated that after our requests the president of the eurogroup, mário centeno, by publicly announcing which nominations had been received for each position, has made the selection process more transparent than in the past. however, we reiterate our request that the council, before each of its recommendations, submits to the parliament a list of at least two names where at least one man and one woman are present. only in this way will it be possible to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women in the selection procedures for top positions in our institutions, and therefore to favour gender balance in management bodies. we already have achieved some important results in this regard. in the last six months, half of the executive board of the european central bank was renewed, and two out of the three new members are women. one third of the executive board will be composed by women, and let us not forget that one of them has been appointed as the president of the ecb. however, this is not enough. a few months ago, european newspapers published a photo of the ecb governing council, that is the other management body of the ecb, and there was only one woman in that picture – madame lagarde herself. of course this is not due to the nomination process we are discussing; this is due to the fact that the non-executive part of the ecb governing council is composed by all the governors of the national central banks of the euro area, and all of them happen to be men. this makes it clear that our aim for a gender-balanced representation in european bodies can be reached only if this process takes place everywhere in national institutions first. for this reason, we call on the council to forward our message to all member states. to conclude, i just want to say that our support for these two excellent candidates, and our responsibility in guaranteeing the correct and regular functioning of the ecb, while safeguarding interinstitutional cooperation, shall not diminish our battles which we will continue fighting with determination in the future.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation has expressed its favourable opinion on the appointment of dr fabio panetta to the board of the european central bank, welcoming the italian member appointed, as he has consistently demonstrated a high profile of competence, professionalism and independence over time, reaching the top management positions at the bank of italy, one of the most prestigious italian institutions, on the basis of exclusive merit criteria. we would, however, like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the house to the hope that the new board of the european central bank, in its full statutory independence, will reconsider the policy of negative rates, because their persistence over time is creating a paradoxical situation in which, on the one hand, the enormous liquidity imposed in the face of the extraordinary monetary stimulus undertaken in recent years has failed to reach, if only marginally, the real economy, that is, households and businesses in the euro area, and, on the other hand, has also created enormous sustainability problems in individual and collective investment assets, such as pension funds. we also strongly hope that a provisioning calendar will be drawn up without delay to establish the criteria for the supervision of otc instruments, i.e. those classified as level 2 and level 3 in order to protect savers and the financial stability of the whole euro area from its major and real sources of risk. finally, we trust that the board of the european central bank itself will carefully assess whether the current forecast of esma's preparatory powers, extended to the sustainability of a member country's debt, according to the single criterion in annex 3, does not automatically determine negative market expectations on the placement of government securities, as the effects would be unpredictable and therefore very risky due to the total, opaque and arbitrary choice in the application of the quantitative method.
madam president, the unconventional measures of the european central bank have kept the euro afloat. the failure of the member states to act has meant that the ecb has had to take these measures to keep the single currency in place. it cannot be implied that these measures have been outside the law as some do, among other things, because those who have wanted to sue and take some of these measures to the luxembourg court have done so and the court has validated each and every measure taken by the ecb so far. but it is clear that we must analyse the risks that some of these measures have had in terms of the bubble, for example, produced in the housing market or also other types of effects that have destabilised the financial market. and we also need to review, as the european central bank is going to do in the coming months, the whole of monetary policy to adapt it to new phenomena as they are - and that's very important to this group as well - its effects on climate change, knowing that the bank's asset purchase programs have been buying coal-related assets for many, many months and that has to end, among many other things. as for the candidacies of mr panetta and mrs schnabel, we feel that in their appearances they have responded positively to many of these challenges, and so this group will give them its support, but i also want to join my voice and point out that we cannot continue with the council still not presenting us with joint lists of candidates. i think the picture of mrs lagarde with over twenty men around her and her as the only woman on the governing council of the european central bank is totally insulting. i believe that, as has been said in this house, there are excellent women, well trained, good professionals to fill the top posts in the european financial institutions and it is therefore the responsibility of this house, but also of all the institutions, to ensure that. so from now on, as we have already asked in this parliament, we want equal shortlists to guarantee gender equality. if it is not, and if the council continues to turn a deaf ear to this request from the house, i foresee further problems in the ratification of future members. so, for the sake of the institutional functioning of all these institutions, i hope that these joint lists will be a reality.
madam president, we know that the ecb going into next year’s financial or strategic review is a house divided. i welcome the new president’s call for fiscal stimulus to be used to complement monetary policy. but the irony isn’t lost on any of us who have been at the receiving end of its threats and blackmail that the ecb has been the chief enforcer of austerity over the past decade. now that the manufacturing base in the northern states is threatened, it seems that the tune is changing. the ecb review needs to be more than just a bun fight between the so-called hawks and doves. we need a serious analysis of the consequences of ecb policy and its impact on people right across the eurozone, including the dangerous housing bubbles pricing a generation out of the market. above all, the ecb needs to face the fact that its policies have helped massively inflate the wealth of a very tiny minority while doing almost nothing for the ordinary families and workers of the eu. so all options must now be on the table going forward, including direct payments to households and a direct green investment scheme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to add a few remarks on the appointment of fabio panetta as a member of the executive board of the ecb. italy will be represented on the council by a professional of great stature, a figure of recognised competence in the banking sector and monetary policy. fabio panetta has also had a distinguished career within the ecb itself, having regularly attended governing council meetings alongside the governor of the bank of italy and, on some occasions, even in his place. more recently, he has also been a member of the supervisory board of the european system of banking supervision. in recent years he has been a keen observer of the most difficult moments of the economic and financial crisis, analysing its causes and scenarios, a recognized profile of competence and fairness that has tenaciously supported european interests. he arrives in frankfurt at a delicate time, marked by severe tensions in the board of directors and by several open challenges on the table of the new leadership of the bank: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public, from climate change to cryptocurrencies, from the problem of money laundering supervision to the deadlock in the banking union, but we are confident that this is a worthy choice and that it will certainly live up to the principles it has always shown to believe in throughout its excellent career.
madam president, welcome, commissioner gentiloni. sometimes a picture says more than a thousand words. when lagarde tweeted a photo of her first ecb governing council, it said more than any of us could ever say. flanked by baroque paintings and underneath a classic chandelier, smiling at the camera were the faces of ms lagarde and 24 men. i had to look again. is this really 2019? were it not for the ipads on the conference tables, i would have thought it was from the days of de gaulle or from jean monnet instead of sanna marin. as an economist by training, i know that many of us are used to male-dominated settings and have become desensitised. but this photo should awaken us. it shows that the battle for gender-equality remains urgent and one that concerns us all. this is why, not only i personally, but also the social democrats and the european parliament call on the council to put forward two candidates for ecb positions: a man and a woman. i know this might be a long shot. nominations are proposed by the eurogroup, which holds among its 19 members just one woman. but – and i’m firm on this – if the council doesn’t update its appointment procedure to the 21st century, we should vote against it. how can we get fair decisions when half of our population is all but excluded from decision-making? how can our policies create a modern economy when they are made in a setting of an age long gone? schnabel and panetta have both committed to promoting gender-equality upon their appointment. they have a hell of a job to do. i hope they will put their words into action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we women make up half the population and therefore we deserve half the world. we deserve half the bakery, not just a piece of the cake. we women deserve to be represented in decision-making functions, whether that's now in the european central bank, at the eba, esma, eiopa, wherever that is, the esrb, and not just in individual very hard-won positions! everyone, and we've mentioned it many times, knows this image of ecb president lagarde, alone in the men's room. this is embarrassing and does not correspond to the europe of the 21st century. we need women - smart women, like smart men - at all levels of decision-making. we want to and must help shape it. instead of being the exception, mixed teams should be the rule. we have a lot to say about a sustainable investment campaign for europe. if it's about using sound monetary policy to boost our economy, working together to fight rigid fiscal rules and forcing the transition to a fair and green economy. so, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ministers, governments, please come forward and let women finally shape the future. the commissioner, you see, the present nomination procedure, as it stands, is a wreck. i would like to ask you, mr president, to support us in the european parliament in the revision and reorganization of this procedure.
member of the commission. – madam president, before concluding, i think it is appropriate to thank benoît cœuré for the outstanding work he has done as a member of the ecb executive board over the past eight years. we are also grateful to sabine lautenschläger for her contribution as a member of the ecb executive board, as well as for her role in helping set up and steer europe’s banking supervision. as you know, the commission is not involved in the appointment process, but for sure, we appreciate the two new members of the executive board and their qualifications and we share the european parliament’s commitment, that was repeated here by several honourable members, to a more adequate gender balance in the bank and in all our economic bodies. we have a great interest in listening to your views, also on macroeconomic policy-making in the euro area. it was an opportunity today. on this, let me add just one remark. i think that, in recent years, the burden to stimulate the european economy has fallen excessively on monetary policy in the euro area. for a more balanced and more effective policy mix, it should be supported by structural reforms and fiscal policy. fiscal policy, whilst bearing in mind debt sustainability, especially in highly-indebted member states, can provide a boost to domestic demand and raise inflation expectations. ecb president lagarde also stressed this in front of the parliament recently, and i couldn’t agree more.
author. – madam president, usd 240 billion dollars: according to oecd estimates this is the amount of missing tax revenues due to multinationals’ tax elusion. researchers from berkeley and the university of copenhagen estimated that in 2016, 40% of big companies’ profits were shifted to tax havens every year. for many countries, this means losing huge portions of tax revenues that could be used to address increasing needs in education, health care, public services and pensions, not to mention investments in physical and digital infrastructures, in research and development: all things that benefit people and firms of all sizes, small and large ones alike. everybody should contribute to this. but while citizens, consumers and small and medium businesses do pay their share, with effective tax rates that may go up to 40% or even more sometimes, many large multinationals do not, and this is not acceptable anymore. these situations not only create problems of social justice, but also relevant market distortions and unfair competition. we talk a lot about building a level playing field, but what we have today on tax matters is not level at all. yes, we want to reward efficiency, we want to reward innovation, but that should take place within a fiscal framework that applies the same tax rules to everyone. that is why we welcome the commitment of 135 countries that are negotiating, at the oecd level, a reform to address these challenges. on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), today i present a resolution and oral questions on these reforms, and we urge the commission and member states to act and agree on a joint and ambitious eu position in these negotiations. i thank the commissioner for being here today to answer our questions. the first one: how does the commission intend to ensure a common eu position in the current international discussions on tax challenges posed by the digitalisation of the economy? and the second: how does the commission intend to ensure that the ongoing international discussions around pillar one are coherent and consistent with eu proposals in this field? and third: how is the commission preparing the implementation of the outcome of such international deals? and, in the event of a regrettable absence of an international solution, when, and in what form, will the commission act to ensure a coordinated eu reply? parliament expects an active role of the commission. europe can play a fundamental role in shaping this debate only if we are united, only if we speak with one voice. with this initiative, parliament intends to express its position on two main points. the first one: we should reform the allocation of taxing rights, going beyond the concept of physical presence in order to include all large firms with an active engagement and interaction with customers and users – also by digital means. the second: we encourage a minimum rate to be set at a fair and sufficient level to discourage profit-shifting and prevent damaging tax competition. indeed, according to the corporate tax statistics by oecd, there are countries where the corporate tax rate is basically zero, and we can’t accept that anymore. so let me conclude, dear commissioner and dear colleagues, by saying that it’s time to modernise our tax rules to ensure that big companies pay their fair share of taxes where the value is created and where the economic activity is taking place. we should not ring-fence the digital economy, but we should look at all multinationals that are increasingly finding ways to elude taxes. the current international fiscal regime creates competitive distortions among players; it deprives countries from their sovereign decision to tax corporate profits to finance public services; and most importantly, it increases inequalities and puts most of this fiscal burden on less mobile taxpayers, workers and consumers. this is simply not fair. our citizens demand tax justice, and it is time to give them an answer.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is an honour for me to speak in this distinguished plenary chamber as rapporteur on this important dossier. i am very pleased with the response in the inta committee and the unanimous vote on the report i submitted recommending a third macrofinancial assistance of eur 500 million to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. in order to arrive at this assessment, it was necessary to analyse carefully the economic and social situation in jordan and to take note of the commendable efforts made by this country in welcoming refugees and in combating islamic terrorism, as well as in repaying previous loans contracted with the european union on time. in fact, assessments of the implementation of the previous macro-financial assistance programmes granted to jordan show that the funds provided, in the form of long-term low-interest loans, have contributed to the preservation of the country's macroeconomic stability and have had a positive social impact. the programmes were also implemented efficiently and in close coordination with the jordanian authorities. on 11 july 2019, in the face of continued weak growth and declining investment, the jordanian authorities requested additional funds from the european union to address the country's increased external and budgetary financing needs, partly related to the instability in the region, including the presence of a large number of syrian refugees in jordan. on 6 september 2019, the commission adopted a proposal for a third aid programme up to a maximum of eur 500 million. i believe that, in view of jordan's efforts in dealing with the migrant crisis and the fight against terrorism, and in view of the undeniable developments in the level of protection of human rights and democracy, this third loan represents added value for the european union, helping a neighbouring country of growing geopolitical importance to deal with pressing economic and social problems. as is sadly known to all, the syrian conflict has led to negative economic repercussions in jordan due to the disruption of regional trade, reduced tourism revenues, deteriorating investor confidence and decreased capital inflows into the region. the pressure on jordanian public services, especially in health, access to basic goods and education, has been difficult to sustain by the country, which, however, has to be recognized for its commendable effort to ensure a dignified reception for refugees who are mostly in urban areas and for whom, despite many difficulties, access to affordable public health care and the labour market is currently guaranteed. i also believe it is important to consider jordan's efforts in the fight against islamic terrorism, a priority for the european union and its member states. jordan is a strategic partner of the european union in cooperation on human trafficking and the trafficking of firearms, as well as in the exchange of personal data between europol and the competent jordanian authorities to counter terrorist phenomena. the kingdom of jordan continues to make progress in affirming democratic principles, promoting peaceful religious coexistence and supporting freedom of religion and belief, and has made significant social and human progress on women's rights and child protection. lastly, the gradual liberalisation of mutual markets means that the presence of a stable foreign partner is also a guarantee for eu companies, which have better opportunities for trade, entrepreneurship and investment in jordan. i would stress here that it is essential to ensure that the financial assistance granted is actually aimed at encouraging the development of business investment and projects in the country. it is equally necessary to ensure, by all the means at our disposal, that adequate controls are carried out on the funds on the spot, in order to ensure that the loan granted is used correctly and transparently. in view of this, i believe that this aid should show the support of the european union for a country like jordan and i hope that the loan will be made available in the short term. i therefore hope that tomorrow's vote will allow the granting of financial aid to the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
the reporter. i thank you for your speeches and i thank my medical colleague in particular, because i am a doctor myself. the importance and urgency of this matter deserve an analysis that goes beyond the divisions between parliamentary groups. i hope therefore that the unanimous vote in favour in the inta committee can be confirmed. i would like to stress that the validity and necessity of the vote in favour of this dossier should call on the whole house to express itself in accordance with its conscience and in compliance with the ultimate duty of all members of parliament to serve the interests of the states we represent. for these reasons, i hope that a positive vote can be obtained on this dossier, which deserves to be assessed independently, leaving aside group dynamics and often unfounded prejudices, which have arisen in my group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, throughout europe the system of traffic light labels, otherwise known as nutri-score, is spreading, classifying as healthy and healthy products those with little sugar, little fat, and perhaps classifying as unhealthy products our parmigiano, tuscan ham or even extra virgin olive oil. this is a system which is actually misleading the consumer, trying to indoctrinate him and trying to steer him towards products which are not necessarily healthy overall. but did our grandmothers need the nutri-score or the traffic light label to know how much olive oil to put in their soup? they knew the unique qualities of the mediterranean diet and therefore all the products made in italy that make up this diet. the only label we will always defend here will be made in italy.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first thoughts are with daphne caruana galizia and her family. as the commissioner rightly said: no journalist can die for doing their job well. daphne caruana was investigating corruption in malta, a country that has seen a worrying increase in lawlessness in recent times. i would like to recall briefly what has been reported in the press. the schengen visa scandal, which was also allegedly sold to libyan citizens, including potential jihadists, so that they could then move freely in europe. the scandal of the so-called golden passports, which were reportedly sold for €650 000, and europol reports denouncing the laundering of money from obviously illegal activities on the island, not to mention all the maltese amnesia on immigration. in these cases, all the criticism was directed against italy and against the then minister matteo salvini. but how many times has malta failed to take action, i repeat, failed to take action in the rescue of migrants at sea, who were then transported to italy by ngos? we should like to point out that the maltese prime minister's supporters include many european socialist governments, including the former government of a man named matteo renzi, an italian. we remember how matteo renzi himself tweeted his support and said: the man who solved the migrant problem is a prime minister, but he is not a conte, he supports milan, but he is not salvini, his name is joseph muscat and he is the prime minister of malta. it's no accident that salvini attacks him because muscat is a leader, not like him. to use a euphemism, we could say that the former prime minister should have thought it over before expressing these thoughts, given the serious news events that have happened on the island since then. but i also want to remind you that another man from the italian left, the former undersecretary for european affairs, sandro gozi, who was a candidate with en marche in the last european elections and who will perhaps sit in the renew group and who is already an advisor to the elysée on european issues, was also an advisor to the maltese government, and it seems that he resigned in october 2019. i see, then, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of hypocrisy in the seats of this house, where we have never missed an opportunity to criticise, for example, italy, matteo salvini, but also our hungarian friends for wanting to stop illegal immigration, for wanting to defend the christian roots of europe and for opposing a european union of banks and democracy. perhaps, before criticizing someone else, some groups would have done better to check the situation within their own political family, so as to avoid bad figures. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the spirit of advent will bring greater coherence, greater serenity and, above all, greater justice to all. i wish you all a holy and peaceful christmas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the barbarous murder of the journalist daphne caruana galizia has brought to the international stage the system of illegality and corruption in the institutions of a member state of the european union. a state certainly not led by a conservative majority, often accused of being authoritarian and freedom-threatening, but by a labour prime minister, who, after the first searing investigations by journalist daphne, resigned and called for new elections to be re-elected and preserve, not certainly the public good, but corruption and bad business. the prime minister finally resigned, not because of his conscience but because of the incredible wave of popular protests and investigations by the press, including prestigious international newspapers, which continued the work of her colleague. almost every day today, the maltese people take to the streets and for the first time in their history, they do so without party flags, but only and exclusively to demand that the prime minister leave office immediately before january 18 as announced, but above all to demand that the policy change and that the institutions be drastically reformed. well, we have to be on their side. for too long the european union has not raised its voice sufficiently against a country in which the fundamental principles on which western civilization is based, namely freedom, democracy and the rule of law, have been deliberately violated. finally, a few days ago a delegation from this parliament was in malta and found a serious threat to the rule of law. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full. it is no secret that today, with a simple click of a computer, a company can be set up in malta in less than three days, with huge tax benefits. it is no coincidence that in malta there are more than 70,000 offshore companies, not all of them illegal, but all too often used to evade and avoid tax laws. europe has ensured the free flow of money between member states, but it still needs to adjust the flow of information between police forces, especially with regard to financial and tax crimes. it is no coincidence that many of the crimes reported by daphne had a european dimension and involved several member states. the situation in europe cannot be tolerated any longer. the european parliament is working to introduce a mechanism for monitoring the rule of law in its member states, but it is essential that the commission also intervene with the right measures and, if necessary, with the appropriate sanctions.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 26 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that the union recognises and respects the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures designed to ensure their autonomy and social and occupational integration and participation in community life. in describing the priorities of the european commission, president von der leyen has not once used the word disability, a sad observation and a statement which tells us well where disabled people stand in the commission's scale of priorities. the statistics and figures on disability are disheartening. disability in europe affects some 80 million people, who often lack the opportunity to participate fully in social and economic life because of behavioural and environmental barriers. by 2020, it is expected that one fifth of the european population will have some form of disability due to ageing. these data tell us that the european union must do more for people with disabilities and that attention to them must become a priority. if we are to create a truly inclusive society, we need a certain political will. we must abandon useless slogans and focus on the objective with concrete actions. the financial instruments for disabled people, their families and voluntary associations, particularly the structures in which they operate, should therefore be increased. finally, accessibility of information for disabled people must be improved so that they can fully exercise their rights as european citizens. it is the moral duty of the european commission to pay more attention to the most vulnerable sections of our society, especially respect for their persons and for the families who unfortunately have this problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as commissioner dalli has said, the disability strategy is coming to an end in a context where there are still more than 100 million disabled citizens who experience daily barriers to independent living. we must set much more ambitious targets for the next strategy. what concrete actions are then planned on principle 17 of the european pillar of social rights, which is dedicated to the inclusion of people with disabilities? a strict regulation on the management of the european social fund plus must be adopted without delay, radically improving the conditions of disabled citizens in the world of work. i would remind you that eurostat is documenting a situation in which only 50% of men and 45% of women are in employment. in the framework of the european child guarantee, we must give priority to disabled children, ensuring equal access to traditional education with support adapted to their needs. this intervention must go far beyond the borders of europe, as i recalled in panama during the eurolat delegation's work, where i asked for a discussion on the subject of inclusive education. finally, i would like to stress the importance of bringing the draft european charter on disability, which i am personally campaigning on, to full fruition, an instrument which must be adopted by all member states and which will guarantee social services even when you move to another country. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. commissioner, given that the disability strategy has not had the desired effect and that 1/5 of eu citizens have a disability, i propose that the post-2020 strategy be much more effective. you need to do a thorough analysis to know how many children, teenagers, elderly people are with a disability. then we need to have a sufficient budget for this category of people, for increased inclusion, access to the labour market, mobility, but also budget for specialised interventions to correct disabilities wherever possible, especially in children. commissioner, the problem of disabled people must be dealt with systematically and, if we consider that over 135 billion euros is evasion of vat, annually, we could, through measures to combat fraud, have this money for programmes dedicated to these people who have the right to life as all european citizens. talk to disabled people's associations in all member states and you will have a mirror of reality!
in writing. this year marks the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the last treaty that the eu countries have approved to bring europe closer to its citizens and their needs. the lisbon treaty has enshrined the values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity at the heart of the european project, and we should all be grateful to it for this. furthermore, as a result of the treaty, parliament has become a key institution in the legislative process of the european union. finally, for the last ten years, the directly elected representatives of the people have been a voice that cannot be ignored in brussels. but as we have seen in recent years, even more needs to be done to reach european citizens and give them the answers they need in the face of enormous economic, social and cultural changes. the conference on the future of europe will be a step forward in understanding how the union can do more to serve the people of europe. i believe that the citizens, by voting en masse in the last european elections, have given a clear signal of participation which must be welcomed by our institutions.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un climate change conference has been a total failure. the slogan was "time to act" which is also the slogan used by greta herself. the result was a total flop. but we will remember this important international meeting only for the money wasted. the delegates, about 200, were there for two weeks, before that the officials, the staff, all of them, of course, went to madrid, with peace of mind about the pollution that you are so full of, probably it was not important there, the environmentalists there did not care. but a nice video conference, is it? because to end up with nothing is not that there was a need to move all these people. the european union has made a miserable impression, and let me say that it should also stop taking on responsibilities that are not its own because taking on the full burden of climate change seems a bit crazy to me. the 2015 paris agreement set climate targets for developed countries saying they have to take the first step. but i wonder, china and india, which are the economic giants of the world, which are leading the rankings for co2 emissions and pollution, but in the european union they are still considered developing countries, with the consequence that they are free to pollute until 2030 and are even free to share a hundred billion dollars from europe, america and even other developed countries for new climate policies. i would like a slightly more realistic approach from the european union and also to have less invasive climate policies. in general, i also hope that you have given a little more thought to the problems of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what was to be the most ambitious un climate change conference ever has ended in a resounding failure. no compromise was found on article 6 of the paris agreement, which provides for global regulation of the carbon market, and the major polluting countries such as india, china and the united states reiterated their no to reducing greenhouse gases. a well-deserved slap in the face to europe and its slogans on climate change, which not only do not bring anything, but also harm european companies, which are forced to compete with the big polluting countries, which have absolutely no intention of undertaking the energy transition europe wants. ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the un conference on climate change will not be the only one, but many others will follow. our companies and businesses are not confronted with greta, but with unfair competition from china, the united states and india. so, gentlemen, we must not be alone, we must involve everyone, otherwise it will be a continuous failure.
in writing. mr president, i am shocked by the growing gap between reality and the necessary measures and political commitments. madrid did not achieve what was needed to combat climate change or even to contain it sufficiently. cop25 is a demonstration of the current political impotence. we must act quickly, because we cannot wait for the deterioration of the environment. the positive is that we know the challenge, we have the technology, we have the resources, we have the money to live a sustainable lifestyle. now, more responsibility falls on companies, circular economy tools and sustainable finance. the green deal is an important initiative that is expected to make the eu a leader in the fight against climate change, both internally and globally. the most significant proposals i see are the climate bill, the update of existing climate legislation, carbon taxes, the next phase of the circular economy and sustainable food and buildings. the much-overlooked loss of biodiversity was also highlighted as part of the green deal. the eu is responsible for political leadership. this will mean much higher ambition in eu climate policy. we must redouble our efforts if we are to meet the challenge of climate change. the longer we delay a solution, the more rapid and drastic action is needed and the greater the cost of the disadvantages.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, pollinators are fundamental for the conservation of biodiversity and for life on earth. they are essential for food production and human livelihoods. they are key to supporting our ecosystems. pollinators are also important for the economy. their impact is particularly visible in food production. almost eur 15 billion of the eu’s annual agricultural output is directly attributed to insect pollinators. for many crops, the contribution of pollinators can amount to half of the market value of the produce. over the past decades, the number and diversity of pollinators have seriously declined in europe as well as globally. many of them are threatened with extinction. this situation is unsustainable. the functioning of our ecosystem and human well-being are at risk. many different drivers contribute to the decline of pollinators and they are all linked to human activity. much pollinator habitat has been lost to agriculture, resource extraction and new urban and suburban development. non-native species take away the natural habitat of the pollinators and unfamiliar parasites and diseases can severely compromise whole colonies of bees. intensive farming and the use of harmful pesticides are another big threat for pollinators, destroying their habitat and taking away the diversity of the plants they usually forage on. climate change and temperature changes also have disruptive effects on pollination. i agree with you that we need effective measures in the eu to address the root causes of pollinators’ decline. the commission took an important first step in this direction by adopting in june last year an eu initiative especially focusing on pollinators. the council welcomes this initiative, which seeks to address the problem in an integrated way and to use existing tools and policies more effectively. like this parliament, the council is of the view that in order to tackle the loss of pollinators, more research is needed to address knowledge gaps and to clearly understand the causes and the consequences of the decline. pollinator species and populations in the eu also need to be better monitored to better understand their status and trends. only with scientific knowledge and a full understanding of the problem can we address it effectively. it is also important to raise public awareness about pollinators and their importance for healthy ecosystems and for our well-being. parliament is right in stressing the need to engage citizens, beekeepers and farmers to contribute to pollinator conservation and industry, citizens and governments at all levels have to join efforts. international cooperation is another important aspect. the conference of the parties to the un convention on biological diversity agreed on a plan of action for 2018 to 2030 for the conservation and sustainable use of pollinators. in the action plan stakeholders, including farmers, are encouraged to adapt pollinator-friendly practices and address direct and indirect drivers of pollinator decline. our member states are active in raising the problem of pollinators’ decline in the international community. eleven member states have joined the coalition of the willing on pollinators established in 2016 at the 13th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in cancún. the members of the coalition committed to take action and to work together on pollinators and to share their knowledge and the best practices to encourage other countries to take measures in this respect. last month the coalition proposed to have a specific target, an indicator for pollinators and pollination, in the post-2020 global biodiversity framework. perhaps the most important and urgent of the priority actions identified by the commission in the eu pollinators initiative is to tackle the causes of pollinator decline. the eu has already put in place a range of measures, such as the protection of natural habitats through the eu’s nature legislation, support for beekeeping and restrictions on the use of pesticides harmful to bees. the eu natura 2000 network of protected areas provides many habitats of vital importance for pollinators, yet these measures have not been sufficient. measures have also been taken to promote pollinator-friendly solutions in agriculture and to support biodiversity in the reformed common agricultural policy for the years 2014 to 2020. all these developments are positive. but, despite the action taken so far, the decline of pollinators has not stopped. the intergovernmental science—policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services ‘global assessment report on biodiversity and ecosystem services’ released in may this year provides a grim picture. the global decline of biodiversity at unprecedented rates in human history is, to a large extent, caused by the loss of pollinators which are the very basis of habitats and ecosystems. to conclude, it is clear that we have not done enough and more efforts are needed to halt the decline of pollinators and maintain and restore their habitats. the council therefore calls for rapid and effective implementation of the existing measures by the eu and the member states to address the loss of biodiversity. the council also welcomes the european green deal adopted by the commission last week. we also look forward to the publication of the commission’s biodiversity strategy for 2030 with ambitious targets for biodiversity, which we will examine with great interest as soon as it’s available.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m addressing this point on behalf of my colleague commissioner sinkevičius. the decline of wild pollinators in the european union is, as you have said, dramatic. the functioning of ecosystems, our food security and well-being are at risk. as we all know, this problem has vividly captured public attention. in 2016 the european parliament called on the commission and member states to act urgently on this problem. in 2018 the commission adopted the first ever european union initiative on pollinators, building on european research projects and following a broad public consultation. this initiative sets long-term objectives and short-term actions, providing the necessary framework to consolidate efforts across sectors and to provide a more effective response of the european union and its member states. the scope is comprehensive: more than 30 actions aimed to strengthen our understanding of the problem, tackle the main drivers and engage actors across the board. main threats to pollinators are well known. the initiative addresses directly the loss of pollinator habitats and the use of pesticides, particularly in the context of agriculture. it also addresses directly the threat from invasive alien species. the already existing and future european union actions on research, climate change and pollution will also be critical for the protection of pollinators. agriculture is the key sector. it does depend on pollinators but also exerts a strong pressure on them, whether through intensification of agricultural practices or abandonment of high nature value farmland. our common agricultural policy is essential to turn these challenges into opportunities. the role of member states is critical. the future common agricultural policy, in particular, offers them a significant opportunity to improve and scale-up their actions on pollinators. as announced in the european green deal, and while we are still waiting for the adoption of the new cap, the commission will work with member states to ensure that strategic plans are assessed according to robust and environmental criteria and lead to more sustainable practices. these include precision agriculture, organic farming, agroecology, and ensuring that these plans work towards the goal of stopping the loss of pollinators. the commission is currently developing a common european union monitoring scheme for pollinator species in close cooperation with member states. the scheme will mobilise scientists, citizens and practitioners to generate data necessary to build robust policy indicators on the status and the trends of the pollinator species. this will ensure that we have the necessary knowledge to assess the effects of our policies, including the common agricultural policy, on the diversity and the abundance of pollinators. the responsibility to duly deploy the monitoring scheme on the ground lies with member states. the commission will coordinate and provide the necessary support, including through the future life programme and, of course, horizon europe. the european union pollinators initiative is also developing monitoring processes for pressures on pollinators, including pesticides. this will support research on the causes of pollinator declines and better understanding on how to effectively tackle them. the initiative aims to reduce the impact of pesticides on pollinators by: strengthening the risk assessment; banning all outdoor uses of the three neonicotinoids restricted in 2013; and supporting member states to ensure the sustainable use of pesticides, in particular through integrated pest management. in the european green deal, the commission announced an increased level of ambition to tackle the causes of biodiversity loss, including by reducing significantly the use and the risk of chemical pesticides, as well as the use of fertilisers, and restoring damaged ecosystems. the commission will identify the measures, including legislative measures, needed to bring about these reductions. and finally, the biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the farm to fork strategy to be delivered in the spring of 2020 will provide strong frameworks for the european union pollinators’ initiative and help us to reach our goal of stopping the loss of pollinators.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, thank you both to the minister and to the commission for their opening statements. i think there is no disagreement on what both of you have said to the house here. we have a very serious problem. i’m sadly old enough to remember a time when i would go out as a child into the fields and be able to collect bees, all sorts of varieties of bees, look at them in a jar and release them. and i think there are many children today who just wouldn’t know that that ever happened and would not be aware of the biodiversity that existed. so we do have a serious problem and i’m happy that this resolution takes hold of this issue and points a way forward. so rather than repeat all the reasons why we have a problem, let me just talk about two issues which have been raised here. one is the new farm to fork strategy. this is a new element and a very important one, and maybe you will be surprised when i throw in competition law with biodiversity, but there is a link here and we need to understand how competition law is impacting in a negative way on biodiversity, and i ask you to do that. the second issue i raise is about trade deals. we have to ensure that what we practice internally, where we restrict the use of risky pesticides and those that are damaging, is practiced outside of the european union on food that we import. we haven’t done that in the past and we need to do it now. i want to thank the groups. we’ve worked well and we’ve worked hard on this resolution, because we all have a common aim to not just preserve what we have but to restore nature and to make sure that there is space for nature in all of our places, urban and rural, and gardeners and farmers all have an important role to play.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. for me, as the s&amp;d lead, it was a tremendous experience to learn, to understand why pollinators matter. did you know, did you know that a single hive of bees can pollinate 300 million flowers in a single day? did you know that bees and pollinators account for one-third of the food we eat, since 90 percent of all food crops and wild plants are pollinated by insects? and do you know that in the european union, 84 percent of all crop species and 76 percent of european food production depend on insect pollination, which is worth about 15 billion euros, which we owe to them? and did you know that, did you know that since 1970, half of all insects have died because of destruction of nature and the use of pesticides, and 40 percent of the one million identified insect species are threatened with extinction? so, colleagues, when you are asked by your children or journalists at home why you are dealing with such issues in the european union, you say these things, you say these things. because that's why it's important to identify the causes of pollinator destruction, whether it's climate change, disease, the spread of pests, the chemicals used by large-scale agriculture, or the expansion and lifestyle of large cities, and to work together to find solutions. this is particularly exciting for hungary, because we, for example, we hungarians, last year imported the most honey of all the eu member states. there is a point here, too. that is what the european green deal is all about for me, and that is what this resolution is all about for me, and i ask you to support it. it was a useful job, a useful experience for me as a private person and as a father.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, i have made it a habit of echoing in plenary the questions and questions put by europeans: we are running towards disaster. it's time to act. it is to ask whether our policy makers have children and grandchildren. that's the end of the quote. yes, we have children; yes, we have grandchildren. these are the words of agnès beulens, a beekeeper in walloon brabant whose 60% of hives did not survive the winter. we receive dozens of calls like this, commissioner. we receive dozens of emails, petitions are pouring in, and even a european citizens' initiative, which has just been registered by your commission. this is a disaster, a real disaster coming. the extinction rate of pollinators is now between 100 and 1 000 times higher than normal; these are the un figures. four out of five plant species depend on this pollination, with fruit and vegetables at the top of the list - we haven't talked about this yet. so it's our food that we're watching disappear with our bees, our butterflies, our beetles. the european initiative for pollinators which you are presenting to us and which was initiated by your predecessor, commissioner vella, is a positive signal. i've been one of those who've been asking for it since 2016, but more needs to be done. the causes of this decline are well known. so we have to act on each of them and act now. the disappearance of habitats, first, the habitats of pollinators: creating nectar corridor bonds between crops, for example. pesticides: ban neonicotinoids, set obligations to reduce other substances that are more harmful and develop in parallel safer chemical alternatives, and non-chemical ones, of course, for farmers. the same now for invasive species: environmental pollution, global warming, clear goals and obligations. in short, madam commissioner, mr president, more ambition and concrete measures now. and parliament, our parliament, will support you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think we can agree on the analysis: we're dealing with a silent catastrophe out there -- 75 percent of insects have disappeared in the last 20 years. but the question is, what does that mean? i am always surprised that the green deal says: we want to achieve the objectives, but we do not want to change anything in agricultural policy. it's not gonna work. we must change this common agricultural policy. we need more diversity in the field, we need to do more for organic farming, we need to use less pesticides, but also less nitrogen. all of this is necessary, and that's why it bothers me that the green deal has lost a clear goal for reducing or limiting pesticides. i am also surprised that several neonicotinoids are still authorised, and that we are now again having a debate on glyphosate. all this is no longer part of agricultural practice. these are things from yesterday that we can't work with in the future if we really want to achieve something. i am also annoyed that on the one hand we are banning neonicotinoids and granting derogations to member states, as belgium announced yesterday that it would allow neonicotinoids in sugar beet. we cannot afford that in the future either. we also have to think about having a stricter regulation for pesticides. we need to change that too, so that we don't make the mistake that we make with so many other things, that we take pesticides off the market after years that should never have been on the market.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, bees, butterflies and other pollinators are essential vectors of biodiversity. it is therefore worrying to see that their survival is threatened. on 11 october 2019, the international union for conservation of nature issued an urgent call for action, and i believe it should be heeded. the european union must step up its participation in this mission to save pollinators. the eu has already decided in april 2018 to ban the use of neonicotinoids, the most harmful pesticides, in the field. but too many exemptions have been allowed, as the european food safety authority has revealed. we have to fix it. more generally, the development of the new common agricultural policy should be used to encourage states to protect pollinators as part of their strategic plans. this is also in the economic interest of farmers, as 76% of european food production depends on insect pollination, with an estimated value of €15 billion. finally, we must fight more firmly against the import of adulterated honey, especially from china, in order to protect european beekeepers and thus create economic conditions favourable to the growth of our bee population.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a strong believer in the defence of pollinators, as i believe they are the most powerful tool we have to safeguard the biodiversity of our country and of our europe. it is essential, however - and i ask our colleagues to do so, since we are voting on a number of amendments tomorrow - that this resolution is not used for ideological purposes of a general fight against pesticides, but that it becomes a detailed operational instrument for the protection of pollinators. we know from the efsa data that we have, we have already identified some pesticides that need to be phased out because they cause chronic conditions in our pollinators, so we need to take detailed and scientific action in this direction. i would like to add one more thing: that there are not only pesticides - as many of my colleagues before me have already mentioned - but there is a very specific threat that is advancing from the south of italy, because we already have it in sicily, in calabria and it is coming north in a really worrying way, and it is aethina tumida, which is an invasive species that is destroying all our harnesses. so i am specifically asking on this issue that there is an operational plan from the commission to stop it before it is too late.
madam president, the third point of the european green deal is to make our union a world leader in the ecological transition. one of the tools to achieve this is trade policy. the mercosur agreement is turning from words to deeds in this area. compliance with the paris agreement is already a requirement in it, and will be incorporated into those that are signed in the future. that clause has already paid off. i think he pushed the leticia pact for the amazon, in response to the amazon fires. i therefore trust, welcome and applaud the commitment on trade policy contained in the european green deal. we'll have a senior trade policy official focused on sustainability. finally, i have a lot of hope in people's leadership. the debate we are having today is undoubtedly the result of a concern. the three pillars of citizen integration set out in the pact offer ways to transform concern into individual and collective commitments that mobilise, raise awareness, monitor and ultimately contribute to the exciting mission of the european green pact.
madam president, by agreeing to such trade deals, we are directly contributing to an increase and speed of consumption around the world. we are being told the narrative that this kind of trade is delivering development, but this is a lie. it is benefiting very few people while depleting global resources and contributing to human rights violations. in the case of the mercosur agreement, let’s take the following absurdity: the swapping of immense volumes of meat. trade should be about exchanging things the other party doesn’t have. it shouldn’t be about commodities that both parties have plenty of, and they are shipped around the world for no reason other than financial gain. this is a complete waste of resources, especially in the case of resource-intensive products such as beef. how is this compatible with the green deal? we should be fighting the ecocide, not pouring gasoline on top of it by boosting bigger trade flows.
madam president, the green deal presented by the commission is very ambitious, as it sets a target of carbon neutrality by 2050. the european union is thus declaring its commitment to be an example in the implementation of the paris climate agreements. the intention is commendable, but the reality is very different from the display thus achieved. by concluding free trade agreements with the whole world, the union is betraying the environmental objectives it has set itself. the best way to combat air pollution is to promote short-haul transport to limit the movement of goods over long distances, which requires the massive use of kerosene and heavy fuel oil. free trade agreements do just the opposite. in this respect, the free trade agreement with mercosur is emblematic, since it is, as jean-claude juncker himself has said, the largest trade agreement ever concluded by the european union. with over 770 million consumers and €18 trillion of gdp, it is indeed the largest, and this is all the more serious for the environment as latin america is a continent far away from europe. this new partnership will therefore increase trade which is particularly polluting. secondly, the content of free trade agreements always sacrifices environmental protection in the name of an almost obsessive desire to export our industrial production at any cost. the mercosur agreement is no exception to this rule. it is true that there is a chapter in it which claims to ensure the conservation of forests and sustainable development. but in reality, brazil is destroying more of the amazon rainforest than ever before, which says a lot about the effectiveness of this guarantee. in conclusion, true to its ultra-liberal dna, the european union is deliberately sacrificing environmental protection to the business and short-term interests of the automotive, chemical, pharmaceutical, telecommunications, transport and financial services lobbies. by claiming the contrary with its green pact, it is once again deceiving the europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very interesting because it shows us two faces. there is the environmentalist face of someone who is orphaned by communist ideology and is looking for a new ideology to give meaning to his political activity and ends up hitting the economy and those workers whom he professed to defend in the last century. the second face is the one who fills his mouth with evocative phrases like the green new deal, but then doesn't care about environmental protection, because the only green he cares about is the color of money. i am referring to those european countries which, thanks to the mercosur treaty, will be able to sell large-capacity cars more easily, to the detriment of the european agri-food sector which will be seriously harmed. holding the two faces together, like in a pablo picasso painting, is only your hypocrisy.
in the name of the id group. madam president, honourable high representative, ladies and gentlemen, along the new silk road, which is intended to connect 63% of the world's population in the future, china is cynically writing and enforcing its own rules. the uighur lands, which are one of the main infrastructural hubs of china's ambitious billion dollar project, have become the perfect alibi to suppress any desire for self-determination of the population. the new silk road, then, may be passable by goods but it is off limits to rights, to freedom, to democracy. i also believe, mr high representative, that the neighbourhood policy must be conceived in terms of global geopolitical parameters and not merely geographical ones. the story of the repression of the uighurs tells the voracity of a country that has created a system based on global and capillary control of the population, which feeds like a monster of human experiences, in the name of expansion and the mad pursuit of global dominance in the field of artificial intelligence. mechanisms of social credit, facial recognition and even emotional control allow mass surveillance of 1.5 billion people. with big data analytics, the beijing government, on the one hand, controls the territory at the expense of human rights, on the other hand, feeds giant databases, where the personal data of citizens converge, according to a centralized system in which there is no distinction between the public and the private dimension. we are therefore faced with an unacceptable situation, which europe, by virtue of its founding values, can no longer simply acknowledge before the uighurs become all of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on venezuela, we have seen for the umpteenth time the utter uselessness of the european union. on maduro, europe has taken frankly disappointing positions. there was no clear attack on the socialist and communist model. the model that was embodied first by chávez and then by maduro is a model that has brought oil-rich venezuela to starvation. almost a third of the population decided to emigrate. the stores are empty. inflation is in the four digits. there are many diseases, there are no medicines. there's widespread malnutrition, they've even started eating the pets. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is something that brings only poverty and death. the protest was met by suppressing the opposition with repressive methods, there is no freedom of the press and elections were often rigged. europe has to wake up.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a real hunt for christians in burkina faso for some time now, and not just christians. there are more than a dozen jihadist groups in the country linked to isis and al qaeda, which have been responsible for more than 650 deaths and more than half a million displaced people since 2015, including due to the inadequacy of the armed forces. in 2019 alone, which has not yet ended, 74 christians have already been killed, of whom 3 are priests. in the latest attack on the first sunday of advent, a group of islamic terrorists stormed a church during a mass, killing 14 men, women and children and executing the priest at the altar from which he was officiating. burkina faso has become a land of martyrdom for minorities. it is time for this parliament to commit itself to considering not only this state for its riches but above all for its fragility, by taking concrete action. i would like to conclude this speech by wishing everyone, and in particular those christians who risk their lives for their faith, a peaceful christmas and by reminding this house that to hide our judeo-christian roots in order not to offend the sensibilities of others only weakens those communities of christians who risk their lives to profess their faith. merry christmas to you all.
madam president, recent amendments to russia’s law on foreign agents is an extremely concerning blow to civil society and freedom of the press in russia. the russian parliament is continuing to create a hostile environment for journalists with excessive use of fines against the media and civil society. ngos and journalists face troubling levels of repression as a result of efforts to encourage their self—censorship, deny their right to freedom of expression and stigmatise journalists and activists. the role of ngos and media is vital to any democratic society, and this role is being diminished by the authorities in the context of an already shrinking space for civic engagement in russia. this legislation is a fearmongering tool, seeking to silence human rights defenders and journalists. i would like to call on the russian authorities to bring their legislation in line with european and international human rights standards immediately.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press and the presence of free information are essential elements for democracy and the rule of law, but vladimir putin pretends not to know this and it will be enough through the new law to receive funding from abroad, to disseminate material published by the media of unwanted organizations to be branded as foreign agents, thus ending up on a list of registered surveillance, which formerly covered ngos and several of the foreign newspapers and today even blogs. it is clear that we are faced with an obsessive need to control the media and to restrict any space for dissent. and it is right to condemn it from here, as we are doing, but we should think about this and reflect, also here, putin's friends who sit among us and reason with us regarding what is a project of society that we cannot tolerate because it conflicts with our values and our democracy.
