in writing. the european parliament is committed to promoting gender equality, women's rights and diversity in its workplace and in the implementation of its policies. one way of promoting gender equality is to integrate the gender dimension into the work of the european parliament. gender mainstreaming is a generally recognised strategy for achieving gender equality. it is not an end in itself it is a means to achieve gender equality when a gender-based approach is taken in the design, development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes. the eu recognises that gender equality is a fundamental right, a common eu value and a prerequisite for the union to achieve its objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. gender mainstreaming should therefore be seen as a continuous process, supported by systematic efforts to mainstream gender at all levels, in all areas and at all stages of policy-making and implementation processes. this latest report provides an overview of the current state of play in promoting and ensuring gender mainstreaming in the european parliament both in its administration and in the implementation of its policies. it takes a critical look at the progress made over the past two years and makes specific recommendations on how to improve the situation further.
for the efdd group mr president, prime minister, the promotion of economic growth, the strengthening of security, the common values of the european union are the same issues year after year, and in most cases without any rejection, without any implementation. mr. prime minister, would you agree that today, i repeat, today, the most important thing is to get answers to two, i think, fundamental questions. first, why have the interests of disintegration replaced the interests of european union integration, and how can this be changed? secondly, why did 17 million britons vote for brexit, what led them to do so and what can be done to prevent the germans, the french and others from doing the same after you leave office? mr. prime minister, the programmes of european unification and re-education will not solve these problems. europe has to change.
in writing. – i strongly welcome the commission’s decision to establish another programme, in continuity to juncker’s plan in order to boost investment, job creation and innovation in europe. such a programme is very much needed. we see that the juncker plan has delivered great results in this mandate: around 856 000 smes are set to benefit from efsi funding and efsi is expected to trigger eur 371.2 billion in investments. these are positive numbers which show that europe has chosen a good direction to boost its business growth and innovation. i hope that the investeu programme will bring not only financial support but also better technical support for smes who will apply in order for them to gain the most out of it. i hope that especially smaller member states such as lithuania will be encouraged to apply more actively to this programme. for that we need to spread the information about the programme in member states because as i have learned with efsi and the lithuanian example, people were simply not aware about this programme. as a result, the application level was non-existent in the first years of efsi.
madam president, peru is one of the fastest growing countries in the region, and colombia's economy is the third largest in latin america. this is why the implementation of the eu agreement with them is important for the whole european union. we strongly support the colombian peace agreement and in this context it is particularly important to make effective use of the trade agreement to facilitate the implementation of the peace agreement. both countries are deeply affected by the humanitarian crisis in venezuela, and both countries have taken in large numbers of migrants, which needs to be assessed. on the other hand, it is positive that ecuador has acceded to the agreement and that the agreement is also open to other countries in the region. i would like to thank my colleague, mr santiago fiss, for his comprehensive report, which lists areas where further progress is needed. in addition, a full list of areas should be included in the agreement, such as a chapter on the fight against corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. this may be done by means of a revision of the agreement. let's take advantage of that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, the european globalisation adjustment fund has in fact supported well over 100 000 unemployed people across the european union over more than a decade, and as the globalisation adjustment fund continues to operate, we would like to take some steps forward to improve access to support for unemployed people, to make it available to them more quickly, to make their applications processed more quickly, and it is particularly important to promote gender equality in this area. for example, support for people who have lost their jobs should aim to reduce the high gender gap in the fields of information and communication technologies and science, engineering and mathematics. this could be done by encouraging the retraining of women in these very areas, which are traditionally still male-dominated, and which are, among other things, usually much better paid, and the fund should also support the provision of dependent care services, so that women seeking employment or retraining can receive truly comprehensive help and that this really becomes effective in real life.
mr president, unemployment, high levels of poverty and social exclusion remain priority problems throughout the european union. we must therefore pursue the realisation of a social europe and the european pillar of social rights by increasing employment and social progress, promoting equality between women and men, fighting poverty and, in particular, child poverty, all of which requires adequate funding for social policy measures. we therefore need to increase the budget of the european social fund and at least one third of the european social fund+ resources must be devoted to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the socialist group therefore calls on the fund to provide at least six billion for the child guarantee to help tackle the huge child poverty in europe and, secondly, the esf+ should help to combat poverty among older women throughout the eu, as women's pensions are up to 40% lower than men's. finally, if women have full opportunities to actively combine work and family responsibilities, this will also increase women's employment in the labour market and reduce their poverty.
in writing. statistics show that more than 100 million europeans suffer from poverty and material deprivation every day, and we all know that poverty is a violation of human rights because it deprives people of all their other rights. while recognising the negative impacts of poverty in the report, we must pay particular attention to the eradication of poverty in all its forms and in all its dimensions, including extreme poverty, which is the greatest global challenge. the european union can only remain competitive if it is competitive in the global economy, if it maintains a high level of employment, education, health and social inclusion. the existence of skills gaps, particularly in the digital domain, and the still insufficient correlation between education and training systems and the labour market in many sectors, has a negative impact on european society as a whole. and that needs to change. the european social fund+ (esf+) should be primarily a fund for investing in people, their development and their needs. it should cover the most difficult moments of our lives, providing support in the areas of education and training, employment and social and care services. particular attention should be paid to the needs of disabled persons.
for the verts/ale group madam president, it is important to remind, especially the younger generation, of the untold tragedies that totalitarian regimes have brought to humanity in the 20th century. in my native lithuania, we lost about 800 000 people to the soviet occupation, about 300 000 were imprisoned in camps and condemned to starvation and cold in siberia. one third of these innocent people, including women and children, died in appalling conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. russia has long promoted the cult of stalinism, glorifying the soviet regime in everything from souvenirs to television programs, denying even such obvious things as stalin's deal with hitler to divide eastern europe and the occupation of the baltic states.
mr president, one month ago i was personally faced with a situation where the remembrance of the totalitarian past in europe seemed to be forgotten. i, together with other meps from 13 countries, wrote a public letter to amazon ceo jeff bezos asking him to withdraw the selling of soviet symbols, the hammer and sickle, on memorabilia. i was surprised about the reactions of some of my fellow meps. some of them didn’t see what the issue is about, the others weren’t aware about the horrors of the soviet regime. let me remind you why the soviet symbols cannot be a fashionable detail or just a kitsch souvenir. horrific crimes were committed under the soviet symbols of the hammer and sickle, millions killed, tortured, exiled. the total number of victims of the soviet regime is estimated at over 60 million. the rest of the world knew very little of these crimes as they happened behind the iron curtain. our attitude towards symbols of the soviet regime should be no less serious than towards nazi symbols. both totalitarian regimes, nazi and soviet, systematically abused human rights, suppressed freedom and democracy in europe. (applause)
for the ecr group mr president, today we are discussing the council of europe regulation on the increase of funds for the safe closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant. this is self-evident and the assistance to lithuania is essential if we are to maintain the highest safety standards. the closure of a nuclear power plant is a particular challenge for nuclear safety in europe, in particular because of the size of the installation and the technical characteristics of the reactors. ignalina has two reactors of the same type as chernobyl. the decommissioning programme of the power plant is approaching its culmination stage, i.e. the decommissioning of the graphite reactors. this is a one-time operation. the lack of sufficient funds would have halted the dismantling process, which would have greatly increased the cost of the entire project and put european nuclear security at risk. the task of closing the facility safely and efficiently is well beyond lithuania's financial capabilities. the commission also notes that the state has incurred additional costs related to the closure of the power plant, which was the largest employer in the region. as a result, the income of the population in visagine has decreased and the unemployment rate is the highest in the country. how can we accept this burden on the municipal budget? the community, for its part, has committed itself to support the decommissioning programme and its consequences and therefore a specific financial contribution to lithuania should be approved.
for the verts/ale group i would like to thank once again my good colleague from the green group, rebecca harms. it was fortunate that the preparation of the parliament's report on the nuclear financing of ignalina was entrusted to her, as she is one of the strongest meps on the european union and nuclear energy. in particular, it is gratifying that the itre committee did not support the commission's proposal to reduce the european contribution to the ignalina programme and increase lithuania's. the accession treaty does not provide for a mandatory financing contribution by lithuania. today, the country contributes 14% of the closing costs voluntarily, and this is a huge financial burden for lithuania. it is also welcome that the itre committee has agreed to allocate more than eur 200 million to the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant, an amount higher than the commission's proposal. the increased funding is necessary to assess the cost of the works based on detailed calculations validated by international experts. in addition, lithuania has a responsibility to address the social and demographic problems of the region, alongside the co-financing of the closure works. as a long-standing mayor of the ignalina district, i am pleased that the report recalls lithuania's commitment to give due attention to the region's unemployment, income, accessibility to public services and other social problems. finally, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that the vote on this report tomorrow is a vote of confidence on the part of the citizens, which sends an important signal of solidarity to our citizens and shows that the european union is a responsible, reliable partner that keeps its promises.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the wonderful job done by the whole team. i think it was very important to come to this conclusion and decision to increase our financing from the reduced amount the commission unfortunately proposed. the highest rate of support for the eu has been shown by lithuania. i hope that the commission considers that and sorts out the financing so that this nasty reactor is closed down. it’s the same type as the chernobyl one, which blew up. so let’s make sure we have the funding. let’s make sure that the commission helps and sorts this out and we can progress, because the people are really expecting it. we have suffered a lot of hardship due of the closure, and the country is ready to finance what it can afford –14% – but i am expecting the commission to support us here.
mr president, i would like to thank very sincerely the rapporteur of this report, rebecca harms, and my colleague from the group of the european people's party and shadow rapporteur, peter kouroumbashev, and colleagues from other political groups, who have clearly understood and supported the situation in lithuania by closing the ignalina nuclear power plant and securing the financial commitments of the european union and the next financial perspective. the closure of this power plant is not only a concern of lithuania, but also a common responsibility of the european union for adequate financing and safe final decommissioning. the lithuanian people trusted the european union and its commitments under the fourth protocol to the accession treaty, which were approved in a referendum. the commission's doubts as to the continued financing by the european union would therefore be contrary to its own commitments. i am pleased that the european parliament is firmly and unanimously supporting lithuania's position and its efforts to safely shut down the most technically complex and one of the largest nuclear power plants not only in europe but also in the world.
in writing. human rights must be respected in sudan, as in any country in the world. violence and aggression are factors that are destroying society. the state must ensure the well-being of its population and create an enabling environment for economic growth. the essential public function is the protection of the population. i strongly urge the sudanese public authorities to take immediate action to improve the human rights situation in the country. first, to ensure access to basic food, medical and hygiene supplies. support the recovery of the population in affected areas, for example by ensuring access to humanitarian assistance. order and justice will only be restored if there is a serious focus on the formation of police and judicial institutions. only governance based on law and compliance with rules is effective. the human person and his well-being must be the priority of the state.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, relations between taiwan and china have never been easy, and the peace has been guaranteed due to enormous diplomatic efforts by taiwan to defend its self-rule, democracy and way of life. recently, chinese president, xi jinping, said that china reserves the right to use force to bring taiwan under its control. even though president xi mentioned that china would strive to achieve peaceful reunification with the island, this is a very worrying tendency. this statement clearly implies a new era in china-taiwan relations. the statement that taiwan is part of china and that people on both sides of the taiwan strait should seek reunification under the 1992 consensus is clearly out of date. as we know, taiwan’s president tsai promptly rejected the one country, two systems principle as a basis for negotiations. madam president has a very strong argument. seventy-five per cent of taiwanese people refused to accept the 1992 consensus. the clear wish and the right of the taiwanese people to live in freedom and democracy must be respected. china must face the reality of the existence of the republic of taiwan and handle cross-trade disputes peacefully on the basis of equality and non-conditionality. on the other hand, the eu must express its strong opposition to the use of force to settle cross-trade disputes as it undermines peace and stability in the taiwan strait and the asia pacific region and our message is very … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. we already adopted our position on this directive in the european parliament in 2013, which could be a very good example to ensure gender equality in other areas as well. gender equality at the highest levels of companies is still not ensured at european union level, but the available capacities should be used while promoting gender balance on the boards of all companies operating in the internal market. it is welcome that the spanish government informed the austrian presidency of the council a few months ago that it would withdraw its reservations on the proposal and offered to work actively with the eu partners to reach a sufficient majority for an agreement. i therefore call on the romanian presidency to include the issue of the directive on women on company boards in the agenda of the council meetings, with a view to finding a solution to the impasse created by this directive by the end of the current parliamentary term. it is essential to ensure that gender equality is again at the heart of eu discussions.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, because, as he said, the deadlines were very short. and he did a great job and a very thorough job. i would like to make just a couple of comments: firstly, the report was really needed, although there were doubts, i think a few - a few hundred - amendments were tabled and colleagues showed a great deal of interest and i think we tackled many topics for the first time, many very important topics. the next parliament will no doubt return to this subject on a number of occasions, because it is a major challenge for europe and a changing challenge. but he'll have this report as a perfect basis for his discussions.
mr president, the issue is indeed of sufficient importance that in individual cases one member state cannot deal with the problems that arise, such as the astravy nuclear power plant. it has already been established that the construction of this power plant was in breach of international conventions and in particular of the choice of site. the nuclear power plant, which is a chernobyl type, is being built today without respecting international standards near the european union, just 20 kilometres from the border, and it poses a potentially grave danger. i would like to ask the commission whether these new rules will oblige the belarusian state to fulfil all the obligations that it is obliged to fulfil, and secondly, whether belarus will protect all those who could potentially be affected or will be affected by this nuclear power plant, for example.
in writing. mr president, the implementation of the crossborder healthcare directive is important to ensure the safety of patients who require specific and professional medical assistance. this is why it is necessary to create an eu framework and a set of rights that would allow union citizens to access healthcare services abroad, that is, outside their place of residence. to this end, national contact points should be established and supported, providing patients with information and enabling them to make informed decisions on the use of foreign healthcare services in the eu. the commission and the member states should develop a network of easily accessible and well-functioning national contact points and multilingual ehealth platforms that provide patients and healthcare professionals with convenient, digitally accessible and seamless information on possible treatment options. in this process, it is particularly important to build on the actions already undertaken to increase public awareness and understanding, in particular of rare diseases and rare oncological diseases, which require more funding for research and development of treatments. remember that when new rules and regulations are created for treatment abroad, the welfare and health of the patient must be the priority. the directive implemented must serve this purpose if it is to provide real and genuine assistance to patients.
the reality is that despite the legislative recommendations for gender equality strategies, we are only halfway there and progress is currently so slow and in some areas women's rights are even deteriorating. firstly, we are still failing to tackle violence against women, which is one of the greatest human rights violations, because eight member states have still not ratified the istanbul convention. what does it mean that there is no violence against women in those countries? is it that governments lack the political will to ratify this important international document? unfortunately, there is still no progress in reducing the gender pay gap for the same job, and at the same time the pension gap is as high as 40%. and finally, there is still no way to break the glass ceiling in political decision-making, because women still have to fight to have equal rights with men to participate in that decision-making. and the biggest shame i have to admit is that in my country lithuania, in the government at the moment there is not a single...
in writing. it is a good thing that we are discussing this important issue with the commission today, because some cancers, such as breast, uterine and cervical cancer, are mainly or exclusively a female concern. moreover, breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths among women, not only in the eu but also worldwide. the data we have shows that with early diagnosis and treatment, the survival rate for women can be as high as 80 percent. this shows the importance of high-quality cancer screening for the entire population. but even if women do manage to beat cancer, the battle is not over, for they often suffer serious and usually underestimated psychological problems, especially if they have had a hysterectomy or a mastectomy. women and their family members should receive special counselling support. it is also essential that women can easily participate in screening programmes, receive treatment at affordable prices and on equal terms, and receive accessible and equal support, tailored assistance and information on lifestyle factors that can help prevent cancer. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to make use of eu funds, such as the european structural and cohesion funds and the european investment bank, inter alia, to establish quality screening, prevention and treatment centres that are easily accessible to all patients.
i would like to thank both rapporteurs and everyone else for the hard work they have put into reaching an agreement. i am very pleased that, thanks to my initiative, it is proposed that the funding for cohesion should not be reduced for the next financial period and that the european union should not reduce its support for the co-financing of individual projects. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is also good news that the parliament's report includes and identifies support for community-led local development. i hope that the majority of the house will support these amendments.
yes, we members of parliament and the commission very often talk about competitiveness, the importance of solidarity between member states, especially in the implementation of crossborder european projects. but when we start talking specifically about financial commitments, solidarity unfortunately becomes a broad theoretical concept. i am referring specifically to the intention to reduce the amount transferred from the cohesion fund to the european infrastructure facility from eur 10 billion to eur 4 billion. this would mean stagnation of important european transport projects, including the rail baltic project, which is of strategic importance not only for the baltic and scandinavian region but also for the long-term competitiveness of the european union as a whole. i cannot therefore support the idea of some members of parliament of reducing competitiveness and withdrawing funding from projects of european interest by invoking the principles of solidarity and competitiveness.
although this document that we're discussing today is not about china, i'm going to talk about china as one of the most striking examples. the eu's policy towards china has always been open, benevolent and consistent. until now, chinese citizens have been able to invest in eu member states whenever and wherever they wanted. however, the bureaucratic obstacles for potential european investors in china are not diminishing but increasing. china does not observe the principle of reciprocity. the mechanism for screening foreign direct investments should therefore be legalised and operational at eu level in the near future. in all countries, foreign investment in sectors such as energy, communications, transport - i mean sea and airports, railways and media - must be scrutinised. the european commission and the european parliament are unanimous on the need for a verification mechanism. however, i cannot say that for all member states. some of them, where china has significant investments, are already speaking for china, clearly representing chinese interests, and that's really dangerous.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on the human rights situation in zimbabwe. i always try to emphasise the essential function of the state to provide a healthy environment for the development and prosperity of its people. it is therefore of the utmost importance to me that human rights are guaranteed, respected and protected in zimbabwe and in all other countries in africa and the world. everyone is guaranteed the right to education, training, employment, a decent wage and a decent retirement. public authorities must look after the welfare of the people, the welfare of society. the existing level of crime and the inefficiency of the police institutions contribute to the chaos and the increase of illegal activities. there must be no violence, repression or constant aggression in the state. this requires more than just internal reforms. the need for dialogue with other countries of the world, sharing experience on crime prevention. i would like to stress in particular the protection and promotion of the rights of women and children. the country should create an environment conducive to the prosperity of families.
in writing. – today it is a very symbolic day to have these debates in the plenary. twenty-nine years ago, on 11th march, lithuania regained its independence from the soviet union and started its freedom and democracy chapter. therefore, i fully support my colleague kalniete and her own—initiative report. it is crucial to talk loud about russia’s military interventions into ukraine’s – an independent country’s – territory. these cruel, anti—democratic actions are happening right across the european border. therefore, the eu should express its full support for ukraine. the eu cannot and should not return to ‘business as usual’ with russia until that country fully implements the minsk agreement and restores the territorial integrity of ukraine. this message should be sent to putin loud and clear. therefore, i call on the eu to strengthen sanctions for russia, especially from the economic point of view. russia’s aggression has to be stopped.
mr president, we will have to vote on thursday for or against the appointment of candidates to important positions in the economic and monetary policy of the european union. and all the candidates for parliament are men. women are truly underrepresented in banking and financial services institutions - only about 15 percent. it is hard to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the 21st century we still have to fight and remind ourselves that one of the european union's core principles - gender equality - must be implemented in the appointment of the heads of the european union's institutions and the members of the european union's governing bodies. the principle of gender equality in the positions in question is enshrined not only in the treaties of the european union but also in at least three regulations governing the activities of financial institutions in the european union. how can it be that the european union itself does not respect its own legislation? and that is why we in the european parliament demand that gender balance be respected everywhere.
for the efdd group mr president, mr prime minister, the main question we have to answer today and we don't have much time to answer is why? to seek why the reality of the european union is fundamentally different from the aspirations of the european community's founders is perhaps the only way to find an answer to the ever-present question of what is happening to us and what is being done to us. mr. prime minister, the idea of a europe of nations, which was the starting point, is being destroyed by the european union itself at the hands of irresponsible politicians. so far, it has only lost great britain - a first and final warning to those who want to replace the european union with a global europe. there is no such thing, and there can be no such thing. the slovak republic, which today holds the presidency of the visegrad group, which proposes a model for the future of the european union that is much more promising than that proposed by the federalists, is not a global lithuania, nor is the global slovakia of our guest today, mr peter pellegrini. the globalization imposed on society is a hydra of capital, seeking profit for every inch of the earth and profit at any cost, abolishing states and forcing people to work. it is a policy that seeks to turn society into a workforce without a homeland, without beliefs, and states without loyal citizens. mr. prime minister, i was, am and will remain a citizen of lithuania. i do not want to be a citizen of the european union and i never will be. i think that the poles, the french, the germans and the catalans who support their leaders on trial in spain would also not want to renounce their nationality and citizenship. the current european union, plagued by an undiscovered identity complex, is a serious sickness - a sickness that no amount of gold will cure by talking about democracy, solidarity and deeper integration. what we need is a good surgeon who can cut through the rhetoric of genderism, multiculturalism, globalism for the sake of health. politicians must stop oppressing people in the name of democracy and free markets, must abandon their dogmas, which are supposedly the only right things to say to society, must stop lying, must stop bullying. you're supposed to talk, not rule. a new european union based on dialogue is needed, not on the cultivation of antagonism.
mr president, we are all well aware of the context of the draft resolution we are debating today. estonia, latvia, lithuania, the united kingdom, canada and the usa have their magnitsky laws in action, enabling their governments to impose targeted sanctions on perpetrators and beneficiaries of serious human rights violations. we, the european parliament, have repeatedly called for the establishment of an eu-wide equivalent. i am convinced that this has to be done at eu level, and without further postponement or delay. i call on high representative mogherini and i urge the commission and the european external action service to bring forward a legislative proposal for an eu magnitsky act before – and i stress before – the end of the current parliamentary term. i firmly believe we have had enough of differing interpretation and differing implementation of the eu sanctions, and we should stop this practice.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, access to information increasingly risks receiving unverified information. all eu member states and countries that continue to deny the existence of disinformation and hostile propaganda, as well as its impact on public opinion, should recognise them, evaluate the situation within their territories and take proactive means in order to counteract and debunk them. we have to break down the existing market for fake news, lies, disinformation and propaganda in the european union, which is effectively fuelled from inside and outside. there are different kinds of terrorism – from military ones to social security threats. informational terrorism is one of those which we must regard as a threat to public order, security and the fundamentals of life and of our societies. informational terrorism is directly connected to hybrid warfare and attacks the minds and hearts of our people. to make the ongoing battle between so-called elves and trolls more successful, we have to address current deficiencies in the east stratcom task force as its lack of regional expertise, institutional weaknesses, etc., requires urgent decisions in turning the east stratcom task force into a fully-fledged structure with increased support and funding.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me thank anna fotyga for her excellent job in drawing up this report being presented to us for our attention and consideration. the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement on partnership and development brings the eu’s relationship with afghanistan to a new qualitative level of mutually beneficial cooperation. undeniably, afghanistan has made very significant progress in many fields, as rightly mentioned by anna before. however, security concerns, corruption, human rights issues and other problems still persist, endangering the current achievements. afghanistan is at a crucial point in its history, as in the absence of further efforts, all of the progress and sacrifices hitherto could be wasted. withdrawing the coalition forces prematurely could have negative consequences and should be decided by all consulting allies. the european union is committed to a long-term partnership with afghanistan. therefore, following the november 2018 geneva conference on afghanistan, the european union announced a financial package worth eur 474 million to support state-building and public sector reforms, health, justice and elections, as well as to address migration and displacement challenges in afghanistan. i hope that this agreement embedded in a regional approach which includes the afghanistan neighbourhood, the global powers and the international community, can pave the way for a better future for the country. the first step to the path of stability is peace. achieving a peace agreement between warring parties in afghanistan is a priority at the moment, and i hope very much that the qatar process of negotiations will include the afghanistan government in the very essence of this meaning. in particular, a peace deal cannot compromise the values of democracy, human rights and rule of law. the citizens of afghanistan deserve this.
in writing. unfortunately, the text of the eu accessibility act is not ambitious enough, and it is important for me to stress that this is only the first step towards a more accessible europe. together with ngos, i look forward to continuing to campaign for the rights of disabled and elderly people, and i hope that the new european parliament and other eu decision-makers will look to the future and seek an improved accessibility act to fill the gaps that remain. millions of disabled people still need better access to hospitals, municipalities, schools, banks and other facilities. millions of disabled people still need more accessible public transport. but i support the agreement now reached on the eu accessibility act. it is a first step towards more ambitious legislation in the future.
mr president, [inaudible] to speak on cnn to ask jeff bezos of amazon to delete soviet memorabilia on amazon. the european parliament should make a statement for soviet memorabilia to disappear from amazon; for soviet repression to be respected, as nazi repression. it’s time to wake up. please, mr president, the european people want to know the truth – the truth of the soviet repression.
mr president, the lithuanian delegation is not here. they would have all voted in favour of delaying this. it’s really unfair. we should delay this vote, and you should know this: lithuania and the small countries of europe are being hurt by this. please, mr president, think about the small countries who are supporting the european course and who are fighting for the european course. you are hurting us with this amendment. put that on the record.
in writing. – the provisional agreement that was reached in the trilogues is not the balanced approach that we all should be voting on today. we see thousands of people protesting in various countries against article 13; more than 4 million people signed a petition to delete article 13. does it matter nothing to us? the european parliament is also very divided on this. it clearly shows that the copyright proposal has not reached the outcome that the majority will be happy about. we should protect the fundamental freedom of speech and not impose an obligation to use upload filters for service providers. while i am in favour of protecting our authors, i believe that the provisional agreement will bring more chaos and damage to the sector.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues who have worked tirelessly to get this over the line. i think it’s very important for us, both in the european union and from a digital single market perspective, that everyone in the european union can have access to all the goods they want to buy – that we have a really harmonised approach. and i really like the fact that we are going the harmonisation way – the path that has led us to a very successful europe. as a shadow rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs (juri), i’ve worked tirelessly to get this over the line with our colleagues, and i’m very happy that the full harmonisation approach for the contract sales of goods was reached. i encourage everyone to keep working and to vote and support this proposal in the vote.
mr. prime minister, continuity and consistency are of paramount importance in foreign policy. equally important is the use of more effective external action, policy instruments, as well as adequate funding, neighbourhood development and international cooperation. it has already been mentioned today that three committees and four rapporteurs were involved in the preparation of this document, thank you all. i will note that there are still doubts about several aspects. first, the european development fund and the question of its financing from the budget of the european union. second, the neighbourhood policy. this policy is of particular importance. it's in our contracts. it is good that it is being given more funding, but there is a clear lack of clarity and of consensus in the european commission and, by the way, in the european parliament on this issue. and thirdly, i want to stress the importance of consistency with the european union's trade policy, our trade priorities. as is our commitment to upholding the rules-based multilateral trading system.
madam president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their excellent work. pre-accession assistance – billions of euros – is at the same time an investment in the future of the eu, making europe safer and more prosperous by supporting the stability and prosperity of our closest neighbours and contributing to their eu accession process. enlargement policy gives a strong push to economic integration with the eu, while agreements with the enlargement countries have liberalised trade for almost all goods. ipa iii is the instrument which supports applicant countries in the western balkans and turkey in implementing reforms, fighting corruption, fostering economic development and the functioning of a market economy, as well as improving the investment climate. however, while supporting eu neighbours and their accession process, the conditionality of ipa iii assistance should also be strengthened. a possibility of suspending pre—accession assistance in cases of breaches of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights should be clear and send a strong signal to those countries.
madam president, the current government of the european union is moving further and further away from the concept of a union of nations policy, and is continuing to worship globalism, which is the very ideology of neo-communism, and the entire political system of the european union is unable to resist this ideology. the acquisition of globalism is the fierce interests of corporations, it is profit anywhere and at any cost, profit regardless of national borders, values, world views. it destroys the environment, kills culture, and leaves behind impoverished nations and areas of deprivation. the citizens of the european union are no longer the masters of their own countries. states are being taken over by governments, leaving citizens outside the door. madam president, tens of millions of people in the european union are at risk of poverty. millions of unemployed, millions of children growing up in low-income families - these are the consequences of globalization. only a strong resistance to such policies, only anti-globalism, can change the situation. it might be late tomorrow.
madam president, i want to thank all the reporters for their work. but i have something else to say. colleagues, we have failed to reach a compromise. what we have achieved is not a compromise. the 1,600 amendments tabled are just one more proof that there is no agreement and, unfortunately, we do not have time to reach it there is less than a month left before the end of the mandate. there are a few rules to follow when trying to find a way out of a situation. first, the package must be agreed on, all three documents, because they are interrelated. if we can't agree on one thing, we can't agree on the whole package. secondly, the single market remains our foundation, a set of rules that everyone must follow. we all want to see more safety on the roads, we all want better working conditions for drivers, we all want to put things right, but we cannot allow carriers from certain countries, companies operating under the same rules, to be excluded from the single transport market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been minister for transport for a number of years and i am quite familiar with this issue. i will not speak today in terms of slogans, where we are talking about certain social guarantees for workers, which is a very important issue, but very directly, and it has been mentioned here, this is market redistribution, and thus peripheral and small countries lose any chance of entering the market of larger countries, which are geographically in the very centre. so if this decision is adopted, i really want to thank president tajani for the wise decision he made today and for the fact that we did not vote. but if a decision is taken, i would like to know whether those drivers who are taken from countries like lithuania, estonia, latvia, from small countries, and employed by foreign companies in germany, the netherlands and so on, whether they are paid the same salary as nationals of those countries for the same job, whether they return to their families within a week, whether they live in germany, also in hotels and so on. also, commissioner, we should be concerned about... (interruption)
madam president, i think we all forget that pensions in some of these small countries are so low: eur 300. we would all love german wages. we don’t have them. don’t kill the countries that support europe the most with this horrible, horrible directive. this will put people out of business – hard working people who want better wages. help us get better wages; take time. take time and help us. let’s all work together to make a europe that gives us all a fair wage, but don’t close us down. (applause)
mr president, i have supported this report, this discharge from the european commission. i would like to add that as a member of parliament for the czech republic, i regret that so much room has had to be given to the causes of prime minister babiš in this report. it confirms that the czech prime minister unfortunately has serious cases and conflicts of interest regarding the money he is taking from the european union for companies he previously owned and now placed in a trust fund. i would be very pleased if the commission would hear the clear provisions of this report and if it would complete its examination of prime minister babis's dispute over the use of european funds, so that it is clear and unequivocal how far prime minister babis is or is not breaking european law. it's so serious that five of the points in this report are about his business, his conflict of interest, and his personality.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the decision this house will take later today will put europe’s plastics economy on a sustainable path and put europe at the forefront of global action. it is also a concrete demonstration of the eu’s broader commitment to the un sustainable development goals. never before has a natural environment that sustains humankind been under such strain. never before has it been so important to put sustainable development at the very heart of everything we do in europe and globally. the new directive on single-use plastics will help change the way we design, consume and manage plastic products and waste. it will significantly reduce the negative impact of plastic pollution on the environment, in particular the marine environment. if we don’t change our ways now, we will choke our oceans with plastic. scientific evidence is undeniable. so are the gravity and urgency of the problem. europeans care about this and want europe to show leadership in finding solutions and raising the standards across the globe. it was just as ms ries said just over a year ago when we announced in the european plastics strategy that we would come forward with a legislative proposal on single-use plastics. today this house is about to take a final decision. the prospect of this new legislation has already boosted more sustainable business solutions, changed consumer behaviour and become a leading example in the world, even before its entry into force. a positive vote by the european parliament will deliver a positive change in line with our shared circular economy in plastics strategy goals. it will stimulate innovation and investment in new products and promote new circular business models. the measures will also significantly reduce littering and plastic pollution in our marine waters. i really want to do a big shout out to frédérique ries and all her shadow rapporteurs for an incredible job. as she said just now, we worked on this together: three institutions, people on three sides, who all believed this could be done when people outside were saying it was almost impossible. so frédérique and all the others, thank you very much for a great job. i now hand the floor to my colleague karmenu vella.
member of the commission. – mr president, this legislation is one of the most called for and also one of the most supported eu initiatives among european citizens. our main task now is to ensure that the ambitious measures enshrined in it are also quickly implemented in practice. prevention of plastic litter is a common task for public authorities, producers and consumers alike. all actors across the plastic value chain will have to work together. the agreed measures should improve the design of products, raise consumer awareness by labelling, and also reduce consumption by banning certain products for which more sustainable alternatives are available. the european parliament also pushed for very strong measures to ensure that the bill for proper waste management and clean—up of litter is picked up by the producers, who have the greatest influence on improving collection of on—the—go consumption waste. we will also have mandatory targets for recycled content in plastic bottles. this will truly change the very fundamentals of the plastics economy by giving a strong push for the secondary raw materials market. i should also mention that, while fully supporting the agreement reached in the interinstitutional negotiations, the commission would like to make three declarations. specifically, the no opinion clause as the rule of principle is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered, and this right should not be withheld without justification. secondly, on the very short timeframes envisaged for the adoption of commission implementing acts, as the commission is concerned about the feasibility to comply with these deadlines in time. lastly, on the unnecessary inclusion of a definition of biodegradable plastic, because it does not have a direct impact on the directive implementation. clearly, we should all be very proud of these new rules because they tackle pollution from single—use plastics and fishing gear in such a comprehensive manner. once implemented, it will not only prevent plastic pollution, but also make the european union the world leader when it comes to the most sustainable plastic policy. the european parliament has played a very major and essential role in laying the foundation for this transformation, and i sincerely hope that you will all give your support to make it happen. once again, i would like to join my colleague, first vice—president, frans timmermans, and i would like to thank, first of all, the rapporteur, frédérique ries, the shadow rapporteurs and all meps involved, as well as our dgs. statements by the commission(in writing) proposal of directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment com(2018) 340 final; 2018/0172 (cod) commission statements in the context of the inter-institutional negotiations the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 to invoke article 5 § 4, second subparagraph, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5 (4) recourse to second subparagraph, point b), cannot be simply seen as a "discretionary power" of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified. while the commission notes the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the recourse to this provision it regrets that such justification is not reflected in a recital. __________________________________ the commission regrets the short deadlines for the adoption of implementing acts and guidelines referred to in articles 4(2), 7(2), 9(2), 13(4) and 11a and expresses concern about the feasibility to comply with these deadlines in time. __________________________________ with regard to the notion of biodegradability, the commission will carry out the task referred to in article 15(3)(d) of the directive based on the specific mandate included in that article.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. thank you, mr president, commissioners and colleagues. in fact, this is a very important question and i think it is already very late. but as they say, better late than never. but first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission, the rapporteur responsible, and the council on reaching a truly balanced agreement on solutions to reduce the use of single-use plastic products. as the rapporteur responsible for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i am pleased that my proposals have been generally supported by both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, and i regret that my proposal for member states to set specific targets and objectives for the reduction of plastics has not been supported. instead, it was left with the captions and the uncomplicated phrases ambitious, sustainable, meaningful. the issue of microplastics and the appropriate collection of plastics from farmers also remains unresolved.
in writing. the european parliament welcomes the commission's proposal, in particular the fact that the structure of the programme, which has already been successfully established and has worked well in the current programme, has been maintained. when programmes are working well, changes must be targeted at the areas where they are needed, as the commission proposal seeks to do. the commission has not only maintained the actual structure of the programme, but also incorporated some of the key findings of the mid-term review and of the parliament's resolution of 2 february 2017. the communication on the new 'erasmus+' proposal makes it clear that the new programme will place particular emphasis on strengthening broader access and social inclusion. first, it only requires member states and the commission to step up their efforts and gives the possibility to adjust grants. parliament therefore gives greater weight to inclusion measures by including a separate chapter on inclusion in the legal text and by requiring member states to draw up an inclusion strategy based on certain possible parameters within a framework set by the commission. it also explicitly requires the commission and the member states to provide financial support to disadvantaged persons whose participation in the programme is hindered by their disadvantaged economic situation or by the fact that the cost of their participation is excessive in relation to their particular situation.
for the efdd group mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. it's a really great speech, and i would say very far-sighted. i think, mr. prime minister, that when you return to stockholm, you will be able to assimilate the famous roman phrase: "veni, vidi, vici". but, mr prime minister, for the last ten years i have had the opportunity to hear and see in this chamber the speeches of presidents and prime ministers of various countries, the speeches of the heads of the european institutions, the speeches of commissioners, and the more i hear them, the more questions i hear than answers. what is really happening in the european union today? why is a bank registered in sweden and operating in more than one eu country successfully laundering billions of euros and no reaction? why has the financial sector in the european union as a whole received more aid than any other sector of the economy since the 2008 crisis? why did it take the european union five years to make its ruling politicians understand that open migration policies, quotas for sharing migrants and rescue operations in the mediterranean only encourage illegal migration and human smuggling? the consequences of these policies are seeping into the lives of many countries' societies and have begun to erode their cohesion and security. the criminal and unjust consequences of the european union's migration policy today's terrorist attacks on the streets of european cities. but the authors of such a policy are somewhat slow to accept responsibility for the consequences. mr prime minister, do you think that the public can be proud of a european union in which there are secret prisons and people have been tortured? can we rejoice in the organisation of a european union in which politicians are now being tried for the referendum, one of the most important attributes of democracy? i do not like a european union that only talks about leadership, only rejoices in another council meeting without a decision, because the real result of such leadership is increased social exclusion, poverty and unemployment. today's european union policy is an empty form without a content that enriches and protects society. it is a set of theses, cloaked in the jargon of subsidiarity, the rule of law, aid to the least developed countries, free markets. the same free market which, by the way, you are actually, if not today, then tomorrow, trying to restrict for smaller countries with the so-called mobility pact, just to have less competition. in a normal society, such actions would be unacceptable. so is self-help. i do not like a european union where lithuanian farmers are still paid far less per hectare of agricultural produce than in other countries. mr prime minister, i believe that the european union is being created today for the big and strong, the great european states and nations, the biggest companies and the most powerful capitals, so that they can become even stronger and have something to offer the rest, even the ones who expect the least benefits, so that they do not have to change anything in the world of luxury and poverty created by the globalized capitalist system, so that the bureaucracy, the most reliable support of the empire, can be strengthened. mr. prime minister, it is said that there is no alternative to the european union. that's not true. the alternative to the european union is a europe without unions. the alternative to the present european union is a return to the founding principles of the european union and its founding fathers, a community of equal and independent states.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr buzek, the commission and the romanian presidency on what i believe to be a very good result of interinstitutional work. while this directive will not stop the most controversial energy project in europe, it will certainly address its negative consequences for the internal market, energy and geopolitical security of the european union. the issue of transit through ukraine remains, of course, unresolved. we will also continue to monitor and ensure that the developers of nord stream 2 comply with the legal requirements. however, this directive is a great example of the victory of european solidarity.
today, with the adoption of the family and work reconciliation directive, the european parliament is sending good news to all workers, especially families raising children, caring for the elderly and sick family members. we must take account of the fact that europe is ageing and that better work-life balance would certainly enable parents to devote more attention to their families and boost fertility. encouraging men to take paternity and parental leave is very important, as it will help to achieve gender equality in the labour market and provide equal opportunities for women to work and to be more active in the workforce. the european parliament's position on this directive is certainly more ambitious than that of the member states, but i welcome the fact that after long negotiations we have reached a common consensus. and because each father can, for example, take 10 days of paid paternity leave for the birth of a baby, and both mothers and fathers can equally share parental leave in order to give both parents the opportunity to raise and educate their children. finally, for the first time at european union level, we are introducing five days of leave for carers to look after elderly or sick family members. it is also essential to create a family-friendly environment at the workplace and for employers to guarantee flexible working relationships for families with children in order to strengthen social protection and pension rights. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner thyssen for her great work in this area.
in writing. – we have had numerous discussions here in the european parliament about gender pay gap and ways to solve it, about the shortage of it professionals in the ict sector in europe and a lack of women’s engagement in this sector. however, these two topics are directly related with the planning of family life for women who wish to have it. it is still extremely difficult for women who have children, to be able to enjoy their family life and take care of their children as well as to maintain their ambition in their careers. we need to provide flexible working conditions for parents and create conditions for men to be able to take parental leave in the whole eu, because then the eu can directly contribute to the welfare of families and combat gender pay gap. therefore, i fully support this report and want to thank the rapporteur for a great work and the final outcome.
in writing. today we are discussing a report which is of great importance to the majority of the population of the european union, because it concerns workers and those who will work in the future. the emerging european labour authority should help member states to ensure the effective application of union law in the areas of labour mobility and social security coordination. in order to fulfil its tasks, the authority must be assisting the member states and not taking decisions. it is the member states that are best placed to know their labour market needs and problems. the authority should assist citizens in promoting social justice in countries and in promoting the free movement of workers and services within the single market, while respecting the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. to that end, the agency should assist member states and the commission in all member states, through the eda website, to increase access by workers and employers to relevant new information on their rights and obligations in the context of cross-border labour mobility and access to relevant services, and to promote cooperation between member states. the agency should also promote the promotion of cooperation between member states to ensure the effective application of european union law in these areas, as well as mediation and assistance in resolving cross-border disputes in employment-related matters.
mr president, it’s an eventful day that we cannot reach, despite everything, a normal agreement where we do not have discrimination. discrimination week after week. just last week we saw discrimination against the peripheral countries in the mobility package. now we want to discriminate people by having second—hand products. i will call them second—hand. we’re giving people second—hand products to consume because we discriminate, and let’s own up to it. do we want a fair europe for everybody? do we want the same quality of product for everybody? yes we do. let’s not give up. let’s keep fighting. let’s keep fighting and let’s win so we can all have a fair deal in europe – that’s all we’re asking. equal rights, equal europe: everyone’s a winner.
the prime minister, the prime minister. i really want to thank you today for that good speech and for touching not only on latvia, i think, but also on the other two baltic countries, that is, lithuania and estonia, such a bitter historical past and integration, our path to the european union. i'm not asking for anything today, and neither are a lot of my colleagues. today is my last speech in the european parliament. i simply want to ask you, mr prime minister, to continue to support the creation of a real independent energy market in the european union in the european council. the second thing i would like to ask you to do is to continue to support the project 'rail baltic', which is of strategic importance not only for the baltic states but also for the european union as a whole. sometimes you have to go back to social justice issues. the question of direct payments to farmers was also raised very rightly. and all in all, good luck to you in your future in politics and all your other personal matters.
in writing. – i fully support the commission’s vision to establish the new investment fund for the period 2021- 2027. the investeu fund will replace the current juncker’s fund or efsi which was a great success in europe. around 1 million of european smes are set to benefit from the fund. almost 400 billion euros is the amount which is expected to be triggered from the current investments from efsi. it is a great success for europe. it does not mean, however that, we should stop. we should think about particular areas of investment which would benefit europe in the future. i am talking about projects related to high computing, ai and other future technologies which are yet to come. the investeu program aims to trigger 650 billion euros in additional investment. the most important factor here depends on us, ep decision makers, as well as local governments to promote this fund in our member states, to talk about the possibilities it can bring to european companies and projects, so the money would be invested.
thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to speak. i congratulate you on your election. i'd like to thank mr. tusk and mr. shefcovich for the presentation. i thank all those who have mentioned the under-representation of eastern european countries in the proposal submitted by the council. and indeed, we need to talk about how the whole of europe can unite, how the european parliament elected by the people can put forward their proposals and how these institutions can work together. i believe that without equal representation we will never be able to solve the problems that are plaguing the different regions of europe: the convergence of living standards, the legitimization of democracy, social justice and the fight against climate change. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to reach common decisions and achieve these objectives, we really need better cooperation between the institutions. today we see that the council has not done so, but i hope that here, in this fortress of democracy, we, the european parliament, can do so and invite the council of europe to do so in the future.
mr president, i say to ms von der leyen: coming from little lithuania i am very happy to support your candidacy, first of all because thanks personally to you and to the decisions of the german government and nato, we have troops stationed in lithuania as part of nato forces. because of that, we are feeling much more secure. i am absolutely sure that you will be a highly prudent and a very effective commission president. the eu needs real leadership. for us, the eu is not only the common market, not only the source of our economic growth and our social welfare, not only our common united instrument to fight climate change. those benefits which the eu brings to all of us, are becoming even more important when on a national level we are starting to face the stronger challenge of the middle-income trap and long-term economic stagnation. but besides those benefits, the eu is also for us a basis for our geo-political security and stability. the eu has a very powerful and unique instrument on how to expand the area of security, stability, rule of law and economic growth on our european continent, and this instrument is the new eu enlargement policy. we in lithuania with the success of our achievements, are the best example of how powerful this instrument is. we are grateful for the european solidarity we received, which was phased back from the beginning of the 1990s. i would like to use this opportunity to urge you, as the new president of the commission, to lead an ambitious policy of further eu enlargement, first of all towards the countries of the western balkans, and later on also towards the countries of the eastern partnership: ukraine, georgia, and moldova. the people of those countries deserve our solidarity, and we deserve a peaceful and stable neighbourhood on the european continent. the success of ukraine, georgia, and moldova can be a very effective example towards the russian people and the most effective assistance instruments for positive information in russia, and i am absolutely sure that the eu under your leadership, ms von der leyen, can deliver such an ambitious agenda. i wish you the best of success.
mr president, i would say to madam mogherini that the moldova issue is very important for all of us. i would like to thank her personally and the whole commission for what she did in order to assist moldova in overcoming the political crisis. now in moldova there is the government of maia sandu and we know her as a brave and real pro-european leader. that is why today it is very important for us to understand how we can help the moldovan people and their pro-european government. back in 1990, just after the berlin wall came down, we in lithuania and moldova were very similar in our development. now we are here and moldova is still in a struggle for its future. what was the reason for such a difference in our development? the difference is very clear. we got eu membership prospects starting from 1993 and we became successful. moldova, ukraine and georgia are still waiting for a clear message from the eu side. i hope that, with the assistance of this parliament, a new commission will be brave enough to move forward. i would like to encourage the people of moldova. pro-european reforms are the only way to become a successful country. we in lithuania are a good example, and we are ready to assist.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it’s a very important resolution, and i urge everybody to vote in favour. the issue which the resolution speaks about is crucial for the future of the whole european continent. that future will depend very much on when and how russia will come back to being a democratic country which respects international law and human rights. for the time being this is not the case, and that is the reason why not only ukraine and georgia are suffering but russians themselves are suffering very heavily also. we in lithuania have a very special interest in having good relations with russia, but that is possible only if and when russia comes back to behaviour based on international law, democracy and human rights. how can we assist russia? first of all, by speaking out very clearly about violations of international law and human rights and staying strong with sanctions and even looking for new instruments to influence the wrong behaviour of russian authorities. it’s needed for ukrainians, which are suffering aggression and being political prisoners. it’s needed for russians themselves. it’s needed for the whole of europe.
madam president, the financial industry has been playing a destabilising role in the economy for decades now. in some cases it conducts monetary policy itself. i am afraid, on the basis of her hearing and the written answers, that ms lagarde doesn’t seem fully to understand all that and all its implications. massive leverage, reckless lending – mortgage lending especially – at teaser rates, variable rates and lending in foreign currencies, especially swiss francs, contributed to the consumer abuse and also to the global crisis. some of the emerging risks have been mentioned already, but i would like to mention the new risks coming with the advent of financial technologies, especially the so—called crypto currencies which are not currencies at all. i’m not sure that ms lagarde understands all these emerging risks. wishing her well and wishing the european central bank well, i think there is work to be done by the ecb, as well as other supervisory institutions and parliament here, in order to prevent a global crisis and to protect our citizens.
madam president, in the face of illness and loss of life, a simple question is raised: why did it happen? if the europe-wide measures are still insufficient, then why? the european union started its action on cancer in 1985. since then, we’ve spent billions on research, but how do we assess the results? the eu’s aim was to reduce cancer incidence by 15 % by 2020. unfortunately, this will not be the case. systemic analysis has to be done to find out why. i am sure that combating cancer is an important political priority of the president-elect of the commission, ursula von der leyen. i hope the work of the new commission will start on the critical assessment of previous efforts in such spheres as detecting environmental influences, other risk factors, screening and enabling more effective and earlier diagnosis. i hope that comprehensive plans on action on cancer will be drafted. as the early detection and prevention programmes are crucially important, we particularly stress the need for a harmonised cancer information system.
on behalf of the ppe group dear prime minister, the molotov-ribbentrop pact and its secret protocols, which divided europe between the nazis and the communists, led to world war ii. war has brought suffering on an unprecedented scale - the tragedy of the holocaust, occupation, gulags, displacement - to countless people. born in occupied lithuania, i never thought i would stand in this hall as a member of the european parliament. i am living proof that the expansion of the european union and nato is best achieved by blurring the lines drawn by tyrants. however, 80 years after the pact, its effects are still felt, as the dividing lines remain in eastern europe. the kremlin continues to seek to keep in its grip the countries that want to join us - ukraine, moldova and sakharov. because russia is the biggest victim of the pact. the kremlin, inhabited by the spirit of molotov, promotes the cult of stalinism and spreads lies. because europe has become the target of information wars. history is also used as a tool of lies. the european union was born as a response to the human tragedy caused by tyrants. that is why the resolution we are proposing to adopt tomorrow is not just about the past. it is for the future, for the younger generation, so that history will never repeat itself and the remaining dividing lines of europe will disappear once and for all. never again.
mr president, plant diversity is a great source for the development of new promising varieties. but it's not enough to create new varieties for plant food production to manage climate change. the latest scientific and technological advances are needed. the patented plant material may be needed for the production of a safe food. however, the proprietor of the patent may not grant a licence for the use of such material in the creation of other new plant varieties. such provisions shall not apply to the granting of legal protection to plant varieties where the plant varieties may be used for further selection and improvement. breeders should not be dependent on the patent holder for the patented plant invention. so i support the idea that parts of a plant variety, genes, should not be patentable, that the patent office should have clear guidelines. thank you. thank you.
dear prime minister, i voted for this resolution as one of the few in this room born in exile. we here, representing the people of europe, hope to build a better europe, but this is nothing new. that was the hope of our parents and grandparents 80 years ago. but two tyrants stole it all, signing secret protocols and dividing europe, sparking the most brutal war in european history. the mass murder, the holocaust, the threats. my parents and grandparents along with tens of thousands of lithuanians were also deported to siberia in cattle cars. i was born there. for almost a decade after the war, we fought for freedom with weapons in our hands. as you can see from the speeches here in this room, some of you know very little about this period behind the iron curtain. the european union is a great example of the european union's commitment to the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
mr president, we all know that ukraine is a victim of russian aggression because they made the choice of european integration. ukraine is also a victim of the west’s inability to stop such behaviour from russia. we see the new leadership of ukraine seeking solutions, which would help to bring peace, security and integrity of their territory, despite the fact that the key to peace is not in kiev but in the kremlin. so we need to praise the ukrainian leadership for their will to seek peace, but we cannot push them into implementation of some unrealistic formulas. ukraine deserves our much more serious support in their reforms and attempts to bring stability. unfortunately, for the time being, it looks like ukraine is only becoming a victim of the us presidential campaign. but peace is not only the business of ukraine. that is why i propose to establish a special steering group in the european parliament which would take care of the peace process in ukraine, just as we have a special steering group for brexit.
mr president, there is no need to repeat that last week’s council decision was wrong and bad. very bad. and there is no need to repeat how important for the whole continent the eu’s enlargement policy was, is, and i hope will be in the future. also there is no need to repeat how much was done and how many painful reforms were implemented, especially by the north macedonian government but also by albania, and how much today they feel betrayed. betrayed by us. what we need to discuss today is very simple – what we need to change on our side, on the eu side, so that the whole enlargement process is not interrupted by one eu member state. so what can we change? before we move into enlargement reforms, we need to create a simple rule or tradition: to ask those member states, or at least one of them, which, at council level, are blocking enlargement to come out here and to explain openly what their arguments were for voting against. then we would have the possibility to discuss those arguments here in the european parliament and maybe in such a case we would be able to find a way to assist those member states to overcome their resistance. so today, i would say we need to be concerned not only about how to assist north macedonia and albania – because they deserve it – but also how to assist france to overcome its mistake – because this is a mistake not only of france, but of all of us.
madam president, first of all, we must express our condolences to the families of those who died in chile. as you said, chile is our trading partner with a long history. but we cannot allow civilians to die in chile today. people who went out to demand their rights, to demand social guarantees, to demand constitutional amendments, to demand environmental things. it is therefore our duty in the european parliament and in our european commission to monitor the situation and to exert influence so that these people's lives are protected and their demands are met. we really support people who defend their rights through democratic means - by taking to the streets and speaking out. i therefore invite the high representative to continue to monitor the situation and to express a united european position to avoid civilian casualties.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we are considering a question that is important and not only for my country. the russian federation has opened criminal proceedings against judges and prosecutors of lithuania – it means, of the european union. in january 1991, the soviet government used military force in its attempt to remove the legitimate government in lithuania. as a result of the military aggression, 14 civilians were killed and more than 800 were injured. this year in march, the lithuanian court passed a judgment. former soviet union officials were found guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity and of aggression against lithuania. the russian federation did not cooperate in the case. in total, almost 300 legal assistance requests were sent to the russian institutions. no replies have been received, or requests were rejected. criminal proceedings by the russian federation against officers who administered justice in this case is the new tool of hybrid warfare against the eu. we understand how the political system is being attacked. we must understand and state openly that we see how the judiciary of the eu is being targeted. yes, it is another attack on democracy, which is the main target of putin’s regime. we must send a clear signal from this parliament that hybrid attacks against eu judiciary will not be tolerated. today we have lithuanian judges and prosecutors who may face politically motivated persecution. tomorrow it may be another officer, anywhere in the eu, who deals with any case where the kremlin denies its citizens’ involvement. i invite you, colleagues, to support the resolution. we will vote on it on thursday.
on behalf of the s&d group ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary these are the values of our european parliament, of the european union. i am a witness to that tragic night of january 13, 1991, of soviet aggression. i saw those unarmed civilians killed and wounded, and as a doctor, i treated some of them. after a long trial long because russia as the soviet successor failed to cooperate with the lithuanian law enforcement the court decision is another russian blow to our democracy the prosecution of judges, prosecutors and investigators. what's next, dutch law enforcement investigating mh17 or uk investigators investigating the skripal poisoning? now is our moment to answer. the european judicial network has delivered its opinion, it supports the judges of the european union, and i therefore call on you to support and support the resolution presented.
madam president, being also lithuanian, i would like to stress that this is not a purely lithuanian issue. it is an eu-wide issue because all of us are facing the same new challenge. our rule of law systems can be attacked openly by the russian federation and this is an attack against basic eu values. the kremlin wants to test the capability of the eu to defend its rule of law system against an open attack. it’s not a secret interference like they do in our elections. it’s an open attack, which demands an open and direct response from this parliament. if we fail to give such a response we shall, of course, be inviting the kremlin to use the same attack against other eu member states. so i’m grateful to the european parliament, the commission and the council that all of them are standing strong in the defence of the european value of the rule of law, even if only one, lithuania, is being attacked for the time being. it reminds me of 1989 when we were repeating to our neighbours, ‘for your freedom and our freedom’.
madam president, i assume the nowadays behaviour of russia is one beyond any limits. it brutally touches european values such as rule of law and an independent judiciary. moreover, the intent to use international institutions such as interpol for prosecuting independent judges. just to remind you of the tragic events of january 1991, it was carefully planned military soviet aggression against the newly established lithuania which led to loss of lives and hundreds injured. now, after almost three decades, already independent judiciary is a target. it is unacceptable and i invite you to support the resolution and to vote in favour of it.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate president von der leyen on what she has done up till now and on what she is going to do. ms von der leyen, as a lithuanian and as a human being with some political experience, i simply trust you. i will not try to give you any more political advice – you have had a lot of that. you know very well what you will need to accomplish. this will be a huge task. perhaps, during the next five years, there will be more challenging days compared with this day. i would simply like to wish you not to lose your personal motivation, your energy and your leadership skills, even in the most difficult circumstances. from my own experience of being prime minister during the crisis, i know how difficult it can be, and i simply share the hope that this house will be a constructive partner to you personally, and to your commission, despite our political differences. let’s get back to the serious job. let’s leave simple and primitive political infights behind. good luck! (applause)
mr president, as the new co-chair of euronest, i would like sincerely to thank the vice—president for what she did for the eastern partnership region. everybody understands why we are fighting for the possibility of european integration of ukraine, georgia and moldova. but, we cannot be bigger fighters for the integration of those countries than the leadership of those countries. today i will talk mainly about georgia, not about moldova, whose new prime minister decided to go for the first visit to moscow. recent developments in georgia force us to be really very much concerned about the situation and future of democracy in georgia. it’s obvious: no democracy, no integration. you know that the leader of the ruling party in georgia decided not to implement his own promise, which he gave to georgian citizens and the opposition to support the introduction of a proportional election system. he gave this promise in order to convince, to answer the previous wave of protest in the middle of last summer. now the trust of georgian people towards parliament and to democracy in georgia is lost. it’s obvious that the ruling party decided not to fulfil their promise because, perhaps, they became afraid that they will lose proportional elections next year. what are the conclusions we can make from such a decision of the ruling party? perhaps it means that the ruling party is planning to use old administrative tricks to win elections. that is why this discussion is a very good opportunity to urge ruling party leadership and leadership of georgia to come back to real and trustful dialogue with the opposition. second, we need to urge both the ruling party and the opposition to agree on major reforms of the election system because people will not trust in the old system. the so—called german system could be a basis of such an agreement because that would not demand a change of the georgian constitution. and the last point, the european parliament should urge political parties in georgia really to implement all the office for democratic institutions and human rights (ohdir) recommendations on how the administration of elections should be improved in order to stop the practice of influenced elections. we need to assist georgia, sometimes speaking openly, rash and critical.
i thank the president for having approved the appointment of the commission, because i support the green social agenda which she has put forward. we all need green to survive, and we need social to live with dignity. i also support the introduction of the digitisation of scientific innovation and the maintenance of our old areas such as agriculture and the strengthening of the regions, the leveling of support for farmers, which is needed in different regions, including the baltic and lithuania. this requires european leadership, european leadership for our people, and for our neighbours to the south, in africa and in the eastern partnership countries. only by working together, the european parliament and the commission, can we achieve results that meet the expectations of the european people and feel that we have served them well.
thank you, madam president, colleagues, indeed, russia's actions against lithuanian judges, investigators and prosecutors, an unprecedented incident of attempted interference in the law enforcement of another country. our values, the rule of law, are important not only for lithuania but also for the whole european union. so our decision to respond to russia's actions is very important. i was a witness on january 13, 1991, when soviet tanks and soldiers killed unarmed civilians. some of them i had to treat as a doctor. today we have done the right thing by expressing the european parliament's decision that no one can influence the independent judges. thank you to all who voted for this resolution.
thank you, mr. chairman. in madrid, it was noted that there was an urgent need for new commitments on climate change. but that's probably all the good news. the overall results at the conference were rather disappointing. after all, science has proven beyond doubt what the factors of climate change are. but the political will in different parts of the world, as we see, is different. no system for allocating new funds to countries affected by climate change has been agreed. the term itself is also controversial. for us in europe, this means the concrete legal, financial and implementation aspects of the green deal. that and the ambition to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by at least half by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. this is how we consistently achieve climate neutrality by 2050. so europe has taken a clear lead and we must maintain it. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the paris agreement and the paris agreement on climate change, and will continue to support the implementation of the paris agreement and the paris agreement on climate change.
mr president, there are no doubts about pollinators’ decline, so a scientific approach to the problem is required. the consequences can only be dealt with once the causes have been eliminated. everything we do to prevent biodiversity loss must be based on science and ambitious, but realisable, goals. to prevent pollinators’ decline, the 2013 efsa bee guidance should be fully adopted as soon as it is possible. regulation no 1107 of 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market should be amended with regard to chronic toxicity, and not only for honey bees, but expanding requirements towards other pollinators. a blank impact assessment and standardised monitoring by pollinators should be an important aim for the european commission and the member states.
thank you, madam president. mr commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, animal welfare in europe is a major priority. however, it is also an important element in the structure of community exports. the latest developments in the black sea therefore call for urgent action. and we cannot simply tighten up the rules any more, and perhaps even take an impractical decision that would harm the interests of farmers, but we must ensure that the rules that exist are respected. the main damage to animal welfare is usually not the journey itself but its negative aspects, such as extreme temperatures, lack of food, water and rest. we therefore need to take a coordinated horizontal approach to the problem, which not only focuses on compliance with standards, but also covers other areas such as the establishment and procedures of eu border crossing points. so we have to enforce our standards.
thank you, madam president, the aim of enabling digital healthcare in the digital single market offers opportunities, meets patients' expectations, but also poses challenges, such as standardisation and unification. the digital healthcare system provides opportunities to develop the use of artificial intelligence and computer learning. the new technologies applied to healthcare systems can help to better understand hard-to-treat diseases and other health disorders. the benefits are inseparable from the challenges. the security of personal data, the lawful disposal of personal data, is a major issue. confidential data obtained from the health system could help to implement health policy. the creation of a common system to harmonise the collection, storage and use of health data in the european union would improve the quality of services provided, advance research and improve the availability of data. juolab would be faced with the increasing expectations of patients to monitor their health. this requires harmonisation, unification of healthcare systems in the member states, improvement of inter-institutional cooperation and digital ehealth infrastructure in public settings. in addition, attention must also be paid to the solutions to the problem of territorial separation mentioned in the resolution, which i believe should be developed. thank you, happy holidays and good health.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all, we need to answer a very simple question: what does this russian ‘foreign agent’ law mean? it means that authorities in russia are afraid of their people. that is why i would like to make an appeal. mr putin, don’t be afraid of ordinary russian people. when authorities are becoming afraid of their people, they are starting to fight their people. that is when basic human rights are drastically becoming violated. that is where we need to use all our power, not only the power of the eu itself but also of the council of europe, where russia again got all its rights back. we need to use the council of europe, we need to use the venice commission, we need to use our governments, which are part of the council of europe, really to urge all of them to defend the human rights of ordinary russian people against the authorities, which are afraid of those people.
