madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for me the central element of investeu is to continue to turn our backs on austerity and to invest in innovative, sustainable projects which would not find investors without the support of the european union. can you imagine that? €38 billion for projects such as small and medium-sized enterprises that promote the inclusion of people with disabilities, research without animal testing, a wind farm in the north sea and thermal renovation of buildings. these are the projects that our future generations need. unfortunately, a sword of damocles hovers over these projects: the attempt by the arms industry lobbies to grab these investment funds. my dear colleagues, resist the siren song of the arms industry and let us invest in the future of our planet!
mr president, if hungary were to join the european union today the country would not even meet the accession criteria. the hungarian government receives war refugees with barbed wire, and criminalises those who support asylum seekers. at the same time, nikola gruevski, a crook convicted for corruption, gets safe passage and political asylum to escape justice, and even hungarian citizenship. last year, hungary became the first european member state to expel a european academic institution. the list of european values that the hungarian government has corrupted is long and well-known, as pointed out by ms sargentini and several other colleagues. the european parliament has spent years asking the hungarian government to rejoin the path of the rule of law. in vain. now actions have to speak louder than words. the suspension or reduction of payments to member states that undermine the rule of law is no less than a financial backstop to uphold fundamental values. to the council i say: how much longer will we have to wait for you to act on our clear request to trigger article 7? reluctance in the defence of our common values is complicity in their subversion.
mr president, on 30 december 2018, the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans-pacific partnership (cptpp) entered into force, creating an immense trading area between 11 south—east asia and pacific countries, covering half a billion people. it is economically and strategically of the utmost importance for the eu to deepen its relations with this rapidly integrating and developing region. in december last year, we ratified the eu-japan economic and strategic partnership agreements. last week in the committee on international trade (inta) we ratified the singapore free trade agreement (fta) and the vietnam fta will be next. negotiations are underway with australia and new zealand. yet there is one persistent blind spot in our engagement with south—east asia. it is taiwan, especially in the light that taiwan is hindered by china from joining the cptpp. in 2018, we celebrated 30 years of bilateral relations. the eu is taiwan’s single largest foreign investor with 43%, whereas taiwan’s investments in the eu amount to only 1.9%. deepening our economic ties is our most efficient approach to supporting taiwanese freedom and democracy. waiting for an investment treaty with china is waiting for godot. it is time to move forward. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, john f kennedy once said that we cannot negotiate with people who say ‘what’s mine is mine and what’s yours is negotiable’. donald trump seems to disagree, judging by the american negotiating mandate. its objective is to reduce the us trade deficit, contrary to the usual win—win approach. from the continued push to include agriculture products to downright hostility on the protection of geographic indications, the american negotiating objectives at times seem geometrically opposed to what presidents juncker and trump agreed on in july last year. nevertheless, we should not forget that, while we are talking, we are not escalating the trade war. president juncker stopped the devastating downward spiral of tariff upon tariff. our negotiators should be ambitious yet stay within the confines of the joint statement. that means categorically that agriculture cannot be up for discussion. but with 50 million jobs depending on transatlantic trade, it also means that we shouldn’t be afraid to explore a positive agenda in lowering tariffs for industrial goods and facilitation of conformity assessments. let’s put this conflict to bed once and for all and demonstrate that cooperation is still the best way to shore up the international rules-based trade order. as the same kennedy once said, we should never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate.
for the greens/efa group madam president, thank you mr belet for your excellent work. only 17% of europeans are aware of their rights to crossborder healthcare. if we are to be serious about implementing crossborder healthcare, we must strengthen national contact points. the fact that we can act together, in cross-border cooperation, makes us stronger, for example, when it comes to research or the treatment of rare diseases. this is why we are fighting to strengthen european reference networks and to create specialised centres for the 30 million citizens with rare diseases in the european union. yes, we also need control and data on the care and services provided and billed to avoid all kinds of abuse. but one thing is certain: the patient must be at the centre of our concerns and must be able to enjoy an inclusive environment, where they are informed of their rights and how they can benefit from them. in the european union, which i believe in, everyone, including the homeless and undocumented, has the right to quality and affordable healthcare.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr timmermans has presented a reflection paper on the european union's sustainable development objectives, in which he presents three scenarios. in fact, one of the scenarios is to do nothing more. we are continuing to analyse and consider strategies for the 2030 sustainable development goals, which were set by the united nations in 2015. but is it not time to act? to quote greta thunberg: "i want you to panic as if your house is on fire". are we doing it? we weigh the pros and cons, we meditate. is that really what you do when your house is on fire? wouldn't you be running around looking for water, blankets, in short, responding to put out the fire? so, unlike many policy-makers, european youth have taken up the challenge. today we have the technical solutions to reduce our ecological footprint. it is true that it must be further improved, and that a fair approach must be adopted at european level: it is not the disadvantaged social classes who have to pay the cost of the ecological transition; and just globally: we can't make others suffer for more clean air here. now we need to set the right political priorities, we need to coordinate our climate action, we need to set an ambitious roadmap, with deadlines, with clearly defined targets in the fields of energy, industry, mobility, agriculture. the ecological and solidarity transition cannot wait any longer. we managed to bring down the berlin wall, to go to the moon. so meeting our climate goals is possible, and so can we. and, as jeffrey sachs said last week in the european parliament: 'if the eu will not succeed in doing so, nobody will, and nobody will save this planet.' if the eu does not succeed in doing so, nobody will, and nobody will save this planet.
mr president, ‘if you can’t beat them buy them’. as the world’s main destination for foreign direct investment, the eu cannot allow this proverb to underpin global trade and investment. to harness globalisation we need to safeguard the critical infrastructure and long-term strategic interests that directly support jobs and people in europe – and protection is not protectionism, as was insinuated by mr pretzell. in a hyper-connected single market, this regulation will enable patterns to be highlighted that might escape individual member states, like my small luxembourg, because foreign investors can knock on one door after another. coming from a small member state, without formal fdi screening, i hope that in the future every member state, including mine, will assume this responsibility and perform minimum screening. openness can never be a goal in itself, in a europe that protects. to conclude, i want to thank franck proust for his excellent work: he has done a tremendous job. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thousands of kilometres, hours of driving without enough space, often without adequate access to water if any . waiting in the heat, in the cold, in fear, in stress: this is the fate of thousands of animals every day, millions every year. but come on, let's not look the other way and let these atrocities happen again. there's another way. i don't want to convince you all to become vegetarians. but support us in having better, stricter regulations and more controls on the transport of live animals! we are responsible for what we do. we're also responsible for what we don't do. the transport of animals cannot, of course, be seen as separate from the eu's agricultural policy, which is still - or i should say is - increasingly focused on profit. we need not only an energy revolution, we also need an agricultural revolution. we need to move away from mass animal husbandry, away from mass production, towards sustainable agriculture, where animal welfare is not just a nice thing to have, but a commitment.
madam president, trade conflicts begin when one country decides to violate international trade rules to undercut another country’s industries. this is exactly where we stand in our relations with the united states. our aim here should be to stand up strongly for our export jobs. those who seek to torpedo negotiations with the us are playing poker with the jobs of our people. let’s not forget that 88% of the eu companies exporting to the united states are smes. the european commission should pursue a win-win agreement, strictly within the scope of the negotiation mandate, and respect the july conditions for concluding an agreement; and we should resist any american effort to include agriculture. as jfk once said, we should never negotiate out of fear, but never fear to negotiate, and that’s what we should do if we have the political courage, mr jadot.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the biggest challenge in this is not the fish, nor the cruel practices that are being inflicted on them. indeed, solutions already exist. the challenge is to raise awareness in our parliament, among policy-makers and also among all those listening to me at this moment, because we are rediscovering fish, seeing them in their complexity, which has long been denied. today we know that fish are also sensitive to pain, form bonds with each other and cooperate to protect and feed themselves. but in aquaculture, they're treated like objects by the millions. they are crowded into poor water quality, they contract diseases and are infected by parasites, they lack oxygen, they are treated with drugs and hormones, they are stressed and manipulated. in these confined spaces, they hurt and attack each other. these prisons don't allow them to behave normally. on the day of their death, they are pulled out of the water, suffocated, their bellies cut open, while their hearts still beat. these sentient beings, and far more complex than we imagined, when will we treat them with more dignity? i urge the commission to propose new texts which take account of the cruel, current realities of aquaculture and the scientific discoveries about these fantastic creatures called fish.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr didier, for his dedicated work on this proposal, as well as all the other members of the european parliament from the committee on legal affairs (juri) and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). the commission welcomes the swift progress on this file and hopes that parliament will adopt its first reading position tomorrow. we can all agree that consumers across the eu should be able to enforce their rights effectively in ‘mass harm’ situations, and that is why the commission proposed this directive. via the representative actions for the protection of the collective interest of consumers, qualified entities, such as consumer associations or independent public bodies, will be able to act. they will be able to stop infringements of consumer law and help obtain redress for those consumers who have been harmed. this will especially help vulnerable consumers in situations where they shy away from defending their rights individually. the proposal responds to the need for strong public and private enforcement of eu consumer rights. in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the proposal gives member states considerable room for manoeuvre on key procedural points. our aim is to find solutions that safeguard consumer rights and ensure that traders are also treated fairly. from the beginning, we made it very clear that the commission does not want to create a litigation culture in europe, and the proposal on representative actions in no way lends itself to such an interpretation. we define a clearly european way of collective redress that is fair for consumers and businesses, that does not contain punitive damages, and is not bringing us—style class actions to the eu. in particular, we set strict standards for qualified entities which want to act on behalf of consumers. i welcome that the report is pursuing the same objective. in particular, i note the proposed strengthening of the criteria for qualified entities and the preservation of member states’ discretion as to the precise procedural modalities. member states share the objective of ensuring clear and effective rules for an efficient and proportionate collective redress system suitable for the european model. i am convinced that, with the new deal for consumers, and in particular with the collective redress initiative, we are sending a clear message to european consumers that the eu cares about them. i therefore think that your vote in this pre-election moment is very important.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, despite fierce lobbying and great resistance from the right wing of this parliament, we have reached a good agreement, thanks also to mr didier. today, only 19 member states have collective action mechanisms and few are really effective. the new proposal for a directive will guarantee minimum european standards to protect consumers, who will be able to take action to recover compensation due to them. for us, the important points were: to facilitate the creation of representative bodies that can represent consumers, to ensure transparency and the absence of conflicts of interest, to speed up procedures and to inform consumers. i am satisfied with the results on these points but i have two regrets. first, the scope: citizens are not just consumers. health or environmental damage is caused by unscrupulous companies; in that case, don't the victims deserve access to class action? my second regret is that the council, being lukewarm on this point, has not reached a common position. therefore, an agreement is no longer possible in this mandate and this will delay the implementation of this mechanism, which is an important instrument for consumers. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the rapporteur. mr president, we all know why we are here, although i regret that we are so few for a package that represents almost €100 billion over a seven-year financial planning period. i would have liked the number of participants to be more in line with the size of the case, but perhaps the absence of such a large number of colleagues is also due to the more reasonable pace of the last few weeks of the session. as far as the text is concerned, i think it does justice to the ambition of the commission when it put forward its proposal. all of us who have been involved in development policy, in the european union's development cooperation, have met interlocutors, particularly africans, who were so amazed by the abundance of our financing instruments that they did not know where to turn to look for financing. the coherence that this instrument would bring is perhaps its most positive feature. but even if we vote tomorrow on the package put forward by the four co-rapporteurs, we have no certainty that we will achieve the desired effect. this is due in particular to the unfortunately unresolved question of the inclusion of the european development fund in the budget of the european union. france, as well as other countries, continue to oppose the budgetization of the edf. and without this budgeting, there will be no neighbourhood, development cooperation and international cooperation instruments, there simply will not be. it would therefore be desirable for parliament to strengthen its message, which is also that of the commission, that the edf should be budgetised as a democratic necessity, and for the council, which is the main protagonist of the non-budgetisation of the edf, to adopt this position, instead of remaining walled in a 'postcolonial' attitude. it also remains to be seen whether the commission has had a clear position on this matter. i have the impression that over the past few months at least one commissioner and his colleagues have actively ensured that the notion of the sacred instrument of neighbourhood survives in this parliament, as if neighbourhood were an end in itself and in urgent need of its own funding instruments, otherwise it would disappear. we are talking about a policy enshrined in the treaty, which will not be changed by a simple parliamentary or legislative decision. in this instrument we are talking about a 24% increase in the funds allocated to neighbourhood. however, we are receiving amendments and suggestions from the office of the commissioner for enlargement and neighbourhood, all of which seek to invalidate the single instrument approach. i personally wonder, and perhaps you could answer, commissioner, whether or not there has been a fair approach from the college from the beginning. otherwise, i would have serious questions about the functioning of the college. that being the case, mr president, i am glad that we have reached a coherent and joint text, and i would like it to be voted on.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank my fellow rapporteurs. we've done a very good job over the last six months. it was not an easy task, but we still managed to present a document before the end of this mandate. i would also like to thank the officials of the committee on development, the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights for their professionalism, competence, loyalty and also their endurance throughout this period. it is the most complex document ever drawn up by the committee on foreign affairs and, what is also new, it was the product of three committees whose work is concerned with external relations. it was a risky gamble. it was a risky bet because it was entrusted to four rapporteurs and three committees. it was a risky bet because we promised ourselves to go off the beaten track without sacrificing the gains of development. it was also a risky bet because our convergence of views on this new instrument was not a foregone conclusion. when the document was first presented, mrs mogherini said that the policies would remain in their essence, but that the methods would change. we've made a bet on change and i think we've done pretty well so far. to break out of the box is to make the european union's external action more coherent. to go off the beaten track is to budget the edf. how many years have we been repeating this request to budget the european development fund because we have become accustomed to lecturing the rest of the world on democracy, while we ourselves have not been able to have a power or a co-power of the last word in the implementation of the european development fund. the idea of breaking out of the box also means understanding that the challenges for the period 2020-2027 are of a different scale than the one currently being implemented. to think outside the box also means accepting that the states and the commission cannot do everything. money is scarce everywhere, so what could be more natural than to invite the private sector to channel some of its savings and some of its resources towards development. this is the instrument the efsd+ which, with its leverage effect, will ultimately devote more resources to official development assistance. finally, i would say that parliament's prerogatives will also be strengthened if our assembly adopts our recommendations. we have succeeded in enforcing the european consensus on development, we have succeeded in enforcing the rights of the european parliament by trying to include the various positions we have taken in recent years on this subject, and we have - and this is no small matter - a lead over the council: we are ready and our bet was to finish before the end of this parliamentary term. we present a coherent report on the future of external neighbourhood relations and development cooperation and international cooperation.
the rapporteur. madam president, i might feel that what has just been said is aimed at me, but i have decided to ignore it. we have heard once again tonight all the nonsense of the extreme left which we have already had to digest in the past months, namely that it is an instrument of militarism, that it is a martial instrument, that it is an instrument designed to prevent any form of migration. all this is, of course, not true. it is, after all, an extremely interesting instrument because it would finally make it possible to implement the africa strategy, which we have been calling for at every summit in the last two or three years and which, until now, has not been able to come into being because of a lack of coherent funding. it would also allow us to have another interaction between the territories covered by the neighbourhood policy and the territories covered by the cooperation policy, which makes a lot of sense. because in the world we live in, you can't really separate algeria from niger, or libya from chad, or morocco from mauritania. it is necessary to be aware that all this closer interaction between the territories covered by one policy and the territories covered by another policy is also progress in terms of coherence. we are also preserving all the options for the continuation of our partnership with the acp countries, which i think is important given that, from next year, the cotonou agreements will have to be replaced by something else. we do not know exactly what it will be, but in any case, from now on, the instrument we have on the table covers all the contingencies. in short, it is also a good instrument because it includes the neighbourhood and i would very much like it to be that way tomorrow, when we leave this chamber, because i think that fetishes do not help us as much as political realism which wants all our external policies to be financed in a coherent and ambitious way. that's all i have to say.
the rapporteur. madam president, i must say again that we have had a frank and open discussion among the four co-rapporteurs. we exchanged arguments and what matters is the final compromise. therefore, it is not necessary to criticize either party for having made its arguments. in the end, what counts is the result and i think we did it in a constructive spirit. that's what i take away from our work. i have heard some remarks which can only come from colleagues who have hardly read the report. i have read the commission document, i have contributed to the report and some of the remarks are not justified at all. some say it is not doing the right thing for development. we have agreed to devote 95% of this instrument to development and the neighbourhood part even devotes the bulk of the funds to development purposes. so let no one tell us that this is not a development tool. the geographic pillars are secure. there is no difference with the previous policy. the method has changed, we have a common reserve for all these instruments, which are now merged, and this allows the commission to do a better job. we have also tried to increase the prerogatives of the european parliament. when people say that we could have done more for development, i will tell you one thing: here, within this instrument, we have not only done the maximum, but we have even tried to go beyond it. if we want to devote more development funds to the external policy of the european union, we must turn to the member states which have made promises, in particular to devote 0.7% to official development assistance. if the member states were to keep their promises and commit themselves to cooperate closely with the commission, at least €200 billion more could be spent on european development policy in the coming period. therefore, these criticisms should not be directed to brussels or strasbourg, but to berlin, paris, rome, madrid, warsaw, prague and lisbon. we have to go wherever these promises are not being kept. if we want to make the european union a real factor of development, it must be clear that the european union is not just the commission but also the member states. that is the european union. it is sad to have to remind you of these obvious facts. in this respect, i think we have done a good job of approaching the discussions in the trilogue with a high view of the council, to be modest, because the council has not yet done its homework. we hope that he will do so everywhere and that our views will not differ too much.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank first of all my colleagues on the employment committee for the good cooperation and the decent opinion they have given. unfortunately, our report is being held hostage to vote on the whole package. i do not want to go into the substance of the matter, but mrs merja kyllönen, mr wim van de kamp and mr ismail ertug have done enough of that. i just want to record the irresponsible situation we're in. is that what we want, to hide and let this package die? it's not responsible. and that these conditions, which were described earlier, continue on the streets, in the rest areas, that is irresponsible. that we continue to allow the shady companies that still find loopholes to undermine, circumvent and unfairly compete with the current legislation. i also think that we must put an end to this scourge of light commercial vehicles. and so i hope that next week we can take responsibility so that there is order and justice on the roads again and that the drivers will finally find decent conditions. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, coffee-to-go and plastic cutlery have become commonplace in our fast-paced consumer society. but sometimes you need to be banned to break bad habits. it is therefore right that single-use products such as plastic cutlery, for which there are alternatives, should be banned in the future. i would have liked to see more ambition on the responsibility of the member states. a mandatory reduction quota for plastic waste, as i have called for - including packaging - has unfortunately not been implemented. this is a missed opportunity. i became a father for the first time less than a month ago. i want to be able to look my son in the eye and say with a clear conscience that we've taken steps to keep this planet livable for them. and that is why this package of measures can and must be only a first step in the right direction against plastic waste.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when eu citizens have more confidence in the quality of their drinking water, they also use plastic bottled water less. that is why the drinking water directive is also closely linked to the vote on the reduction of plastic waste which we have held here today. this is not only good for the environment, but also protects the backs and wallets of eu citizens. if households drink more tap water, the consumption of bottled water could be drastically reduced, and households could save up to 600 million euros a year. it is therefore right that we have again reduced the maximum permitted levels for certain pollutants such as lead, harmful bacteria and certain hormonally active substances such as endocrine disruptors, in order to increase confidence in the quality of our drinking water. as plastic in drinking water itself is becoming an increasing problem, i also welcome the calls for monitoring the content of microplastics. the problem of microplastics is not yet sufficiently studied, but it may have health implications. it is also regrettable that the member states were not able to agree more quickly on a common position on this directive and only allowed very limited requirements for access to drinking water. it would have been important for eu citizens to have launched this directive before the european elections on the occasion of world water day on 22 march. it was definitely not up to us. i would like to thank my colleague michel dantin and his staff for the excellent work they have done. i would also like to express my regret for those who will not go ahead and vote against the report, because this is a first proper step in the right direction.
member of the commission. – madam president, first let me express the conviction that i represent here the whole college, the whole commission. so that’s the reaction for you who criticised first vice-president timmermans for not being here today. frans timmermans has engaged very intensively in continuous, long-lasting dialogue with the romanian authorities and he is the last person who should be criticised for doing something wrong or something negative against romania. the second comment: the commission does not interfere in individual cases in romania. this is the reaction to ms grapini. this is our principle: we do not interfere. we are looking at a systemic situation, at the situation in the legislation, and that’s why we are addressing the recent legislative changes which we see in romania, because the cumulative potential of the individual changes might lead to the breach of the rule of law in romania. last comment to ms morvai: no, i don’t know the basis. i very well remember my own case from 2006. i was accused of corruption in 2006, with a very dirty political case. it was purely motivated by political interests and it was a charade for the media, and i still remember that when sitting in the jail, not for a single second did i believe that any judge in my country would send me to jail after indictment in the court. i believed in independent justice in my country and by the way the case never got to the court because there was not the slightest evidence. it was just politically initiated, a dirty game for the media. i remember it very well and it’s a paradox that romania was the country which offered me work after this, because everything was destroyed by this. i will not go into details but it also affected horribly my family. i worked in romania. this country gave me a chance to provide my knowledge and expertise and that’s why i should be the last person who could be accused now of doing something against romania. i just have to share the view that in romania we might get into the situation of irreversible changes in the judiciary system, the systemic breach of rule of law, where the independence and impartiality of the judiciary is endangered. i was following closely what romania is doing through the cvm exercise. i was happy about the reform going in the right direction and at the same time, i was very scared about the changes which started to go in a very wrong direction and this is where we are now. the independent judiciary is a very important pillar of the democratic state and it is something which is being developed over decades. in all the member states we saw a very long process which led to the well-balanced constitutional system, with a very strong independent judiciary as the main part of it, or one of the main parts. but it can be destroyed literally overnight and this is what the commission doesn’t want to happen in romania. so again, the debate, the dialogue is ongoing. i agree with those of you who said that romania and the romanians deserve more. so we would like to help romania. now the debate is ongoing on a technical level, i would wish us to come back to the political level and have a positive dialogue which will lead to positive changes and the reform coming back on track in romania. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, investment funds provide opportunities for european citizens to save for their future. they are also an important tool to channel private savings into the economy and increase funding for european companies. but today the markets for investment funds are mostly national. for example, 70% of investment funds are sold only in the domestic market. the share of ucits funds – that is marketed in more than three countries – is relatively low, 37%, and for alternative investment funds the share is even lower, only around 3%. this is partly due to regulatory barriers that hinder cross—border fund distribution. as part of the capital markets union, the commission proposed measures to reduce these barriers and improve the functioning of the single market for european investment funds. our goal is simple. we want managers from anywhere in the eu to be able to easily sell their funds across the eu without compromising on investor protection. we propose to achieve this by reducing administrative burdens and by improving clarity for fund managers who want to market their funds across the eu. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wolf klinz, and the shadow rapporteurs for making efforts to advance the file quickly. (interruption due to an interpretation problem) i would also like to congratulate you for having quickly achieved a political agreement with the council in trilogue negotiations. the commission supports the agreement reached. it strikes the right balance between facilitating cross—border distribution of investment funds and ensuring investor protection. i would give you one example of this careful balance. parliament and the member states decided to allow managers to promote actively the existing funds to potential new investors without having to comply with all the marketing rules. at the same time, the co-legislators introduced safeguards to ensure sound supervision of these practices and limit the risk of the circumvention of eu rules. i hope that tomorrow’s vote will confirm this important building block of the capital markets union.
madam president, i would like to thank the team and especially our rapporteur, mr klinz, who has conducted our debates and trilogues very effectively, which allows us to close the file before the end of the mandate. the aim of this regulation is to facilitate the cross-border distribution of investment funds, as at present most european funds are only offered in one member state, their home member state, and many managers are reluctant to enter a new market, reducing the choice for investors in that country. however, we in europe need investors and capital to finance our economy, hence this proposal which should remove barriers and encourage funds to explore the potential of a new market, for example by defining what the market price is. it also harmonises the conditions under which funds can leave the market of a member state if the success they hope for is not met. we have been very much insisting that the supervisory authorities be informed of the activities of the funds in a given state so that they can carry out their supervisory mission and that there is a real exchange of information between the supervisory authorities, but also with the european authority. these are the essential conditions for ensuring adequate information and protection for investors, and this was our main concern. the compromises also give us confidence that fund managers will continue to fulfil their information obligation to investors in a country even after they have left it. i would not like to end without saying a word about priips and the key information document. my group did not ask for an additional two years for ucits to be required to apply the provisions of the key information document. i call on the commission to speed up the work so that this extension is not for two years but for as short a time as possible.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for his work. the review of the prudential framework for investment firms is an important part of the capital markets union (cmu) and banking union. it will set out a more proportionate prudential rule book for the vast majority of europe’s small- and medium-sized investment firms. it should thus help these firms support the flow of investment in the union and promote deeper and more integrated capital markets. the revised framework will also ensure that systemic firms remain subject to the existing prudential rule book alongside banks. amongst these, the largest will come under the supervision of the single supervisory mechanism for their operations in the member states that are part of the banking union. this will help ensure a level playing field in regulatory and supervisory conditions. finally, some changes are introduced in how third-country investment firms can provide services to eu clients under the framework of equivalence set out in the markets in financial instruments regulation and directive. these changes keep eu markets open to third-country firms while ensuring adequate transparency and safeguards for third-country operators offering key investment services on a significant scale and who also significantly enhance the role of esma in monitoring the activities of third-country firms in the union. i wish to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr ferber, for reaching this outcome. the support demonstrated by parliament – not only by the rapporteur but also shadow rapporteurs – has been vital throughout the legislative process. i’m happy to say that the objectives and level of ambition of the commission’s proposals are largely being achieved, thanks to the efficient and decisive approach adopted by parliament. the commission will now work on implementation of the revised rule book for investment firms at a similar pace, and i want to ensure that the benefits of the functioning of the capital markets are delivered in full and on time.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, markus ferber, on the way he organised our work and defended our position in the trilogues. we have achieved good regulation. it was necessary and expected, as it is adapted to the specific profiles and risks inherent in the activities of the various investment firms. it also corrects the situation by preventing certain companies from enjoying national exemptions and escaping any regulation or supervision, as was the case before. the challenge was to break down the eleven types of investment firms identified by the european banking authority into three categories or classes. the first group includes the largest companies, those that are systemically important and remain subject to banking regulation. the second group includes most firms, about 6 000, for which the risks are calculated according to the so-called k factors. finally, the third group includes small, non-interconnected firms which do not represent a high risk and are therefore subject to very light regulation. this is a good compromise, both on capital requirements, which are proportionate while ensuring stability, but also on governance rules. the obligation for many companies to set up risk and remuneration committees and to ensure equal representation of women and men on these committees is to be welcomed. i also welcome the level of transparency and reporting requirements and the establishment of non-discriminatory remuneration policies. i also welcome the principle that this remuneration should not be based on short-term profitability, which i consider to be an important step forward. finally, i welcome the criteria that have been set for granting equivalence and the increased role of the european banking authority in the supervision of financial markets.
mr president, investeu, which is aimed more specifically at small and mediumsized enterprises, is moving in the right direction, despite some 'buts' which i will explain in a moment. the right way forward is to ensure clear targets to combat climate change, to increase spending on advisory platforms, which will allow - at least i hope - better information and geographical distribution, to introduce the idea of climate resilience for all projects, to evaluate projects with indicators relating to the climate targets achieved. regrettably, it is still possible, through investeu, to invest in defence-related projects as well as in projects that are not really linked to the climate objectives to be achieved, such as airports or fossil energy networks. so i say to the voters: if you no longer want the european union to support projects that are damaging to the planet and our future, vote for the greens in may.
madam president, lately trump has been insulting democratic congresswomen with racist and sexist statements; a smokescreen to cover up his new immigration plan that promotes tougher border controls and further restricts the conditions for asylum. it does so just after it has announced xenophobic raids to arrest people who have fled poverty and violence, coups d'état and corrupt governments, such as that of honduras, which are supported by the united states and europe. approaching human mobility from a repressive approach encourages xenophobia, hatred and violence. we denounce the criminalization of solidarity, the populism of walls, the externalization of borders, racist raids, mass and illegal returns and the inhumane family separation, for which children are being imprisoned, separated from their mothers and fathers, just for the fact of emigrating. we also join the democratic congresswomen in calling for the closure of detention centers, because migration is not a crime. the borders of the united states and europe are today the most dangerous in the world. and what a coincidence, on one side the far right rules, and on the other it is the right and the far right who set the migration agenda. we take responsibility. let us stop looking the other way and saying nice words that are not translated into deeds, because if we do not, people will continue to die on the other side of our door.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the influx of asylum seekers and illegal migrants is a real challenge, both for the united states and for europe. reports by the us administration itself indicate that the overcrowding situation at various reception centers on the us-mexico border has become dangerous and that immediate action must be taken. furthermore, the separation of children from their parents is particularly deplorable, even unacceptable. on the mexican side, properly trained agents, not the military, should be handling the migrants. on the other hand, major measures should be taken to prevent migrants crossing mexico into the usa from falling victim to all kinds of violence and human trafficking. we therefore consider the situation to be very worrying. the epp does not support the motion in its entirety, however, as it considers that the text does not present the responsibilities of the two countries in a balanced way and does not take sufficient account of the political situation in the region. moreover, the united states is a state of law, a partner country with which there are other forms and means of dealing with our differences.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the molotov-ribbentrop pact is a pact for millions of europeans, and i too have a deeply personal story. because after the bloody second world war, death and repression continued for decades for the nations that were imprisoned behind the iron curtain. three of my grandparents are in the soviet gulag. my mother was in siberia for 17 years, my father for 8, and i was born there. there are many such fates in the baltic states. however, the baltic peoples have managed to turn their suffering and loss into victory. thirty years ago, on august 23, two million whites joined hands to build the 400-mile-long baltic highway. we reminded the world of our right to reclaim our lands and our freedoms. the baltic way thus became the route for our people to return to europe. so we must know history to not be deceived and to believe in the future and in justice. therefore, i firmly believe that one day ukraine will regain the illegally annexed crimea. thank you.
madam president, 80 years have passed since two totalitarian ideologies agreed in a secret joint molotov-riebbentrop pact dividing europe into spheres of interest and thus paving the way for the beginning of one of the bloodiest wars europe has ever seen. and this year, we marked august 23rd by burying the victims in previously unexplored graves. sixty years after the war, they stand as a warning of what the darkening of consciousness and the unification of mind can bring to europe. the collapse of fascism, nazism, and communism brought about a freedom and democracy that some in europe today take for granted. working to uncover the truth and to illuminate all that is left behind by these mindsets is the only way we can achieve reconciliation, individually and then collectively. the horror and violence that these dark ideologies left behind by starting an alliance under the cover of darkness and secret agreements must be illuminated for all generations to know the consequences of tyranny and one-mindedness.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to remember these sad events so that they are not forgotten, so that the human tragedies of entire peoples will not be repeated in the future. on september 1st, world war ii was started by the invasion of poland. subsequently, poland was invaded by the soviet union. and it took six long years to bring world war ii to an end. but then another dictatorship began, and other countries suffered 45 years of communist dictatorship. a great legacy of hatred, suffering, death, wasted lives, we carry to this day. and as the speakers said, it's necessary to remind those who have not experienced this form of dictatorship... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i repeat that both dictatorships were equally terrible. to maintain our unity and diversity, we must remember what events led to this, and we must also remember that there is ukraine, which is occupied, suffering from disinformation from moscow and the occupation, and therefore it is our moral duty to support and bring ukraine closer to the european union, precisely in view of the terrible history that we are remembering today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my youth was marked by a europe divided in two, where on one side of the wall people were free and on the other people were prevented from expressing themselves and moving about freely. it was not a story, but a daily reality that on both sides of the iron curtain marked the minds. i remember the sense of injustice i felt at the arbitrariness of this world war ii line of demarcation, and how lucky i was to be on the side of freedom. i was told about the second world war and its atrocities. i remember the horror i felt as a teenager when i visited a concentration camp and learned about the atrocities of that war. but today, as the years pass, it seems that the reality of the exterminations, the inhuman use of human beings, as if they were some kind of material, is covered with a kind of mitigating veil, even allowing the denial of the existence of these realities. this is unacceptable! the memory of our history is not only a duty of respect to those who have died and suffered, but also a way of combating extremism of all kinds, which is now reaching alarming proportions. our history imposes on us europeans a duty of memory. we need to educate our young people about what happened, and we need to stay vigilant if we want to protect ourselves from a future that could repeat the crimes of the past.
mr president, the new penal code in indonesia is the source of this resolution, and it echoes the student protests across indonesia as well as the mass demonstrations in west papua. we want to express our support for the opposition to this new code because it criminalises elements that affect the identity of the person, his private sphere, that affect the freedom of thought and belief, the freedom to dispose of his body, and this in an informed manner. we must denounce these facts and the repressive measures that have been put in place. the commission's work is also focused on the fight against corruption, particularly since a controversial law passed in september removes the powers of the national commission for the eradication of corruption. but here we are in the realm of public life, where laws must be restrictive, guarantee equality before the law and guarantee the rule of law. finally, i would like to highlight the positive relations between the european union and indonesia, namely the cooperation partnership and the annual human rights dialogues. we have high hopes, particularly in the context of the human rights dialogue to be held in november this year.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it’s a pleasure to address this house on the ongoing negotiations for the future agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the european union. this is indeed a very timely discussion. post—cotonou continues to be a key file for the council. negotiations are ongoing and until now five negotiation rounds took place at political level, the latest one in september in new york. the next meeting of the chief negotiators is foreseen to take place in december. both parties agree that the future development cooperation framework should be based on the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change and must reflect and adapt to the changing global context, new challenges and opportunities. the ambitions are high on both sides to use the relationship for joint positions in international fora. the eu shares the ambition of the acp—eu joint parliamentary assembly and the european parliament to strengthen the parliamentary dimension. our eu negotiating directives clearly stipulate that the parties shall pursue an inclusive and open multi—stakeholder approach, including by strengthening the role of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector. these directives aim to strengthen regular political dialogue at all levels, enabling the active engagement of a wide variety of actors, including civil society, in dialogue and cooperation processes. they also aim to strengthen the role of civil society and the private sector as the key partners in realising the objectives of the partnership. the negotiations on migration issues are ongoing. the eu’s aim is to arrive at a more operational text compared to the cotonou agreement. the eu negotiation mandate also stipulates that all elements of migration cooperation would be addressed in the regular political dialogue, which would ensure regular discussions with our partners on this important topic. economic partnership agreements help regional economic communities by providing necessary expertise, technology and experience for trade integration. they are tools to enhance trade and investment, value addition and industrialisation, and economic integration. the work done so far on these agreements should inspire the future trade arrangements between the acp and the eu. the eu negotiating directives are very clear when it comes to non—discrimination based on sexual orientation and sexual and reproductive health and rights. they aim to commit the parties to the promotion, protection and fulfilment of the right of every individual to have full control over and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality and sexual and reproductive health, free from discrimination, coercion and violence. the eu aims for an agreement that ensures universal access to quality and affordable comprehensive sexual and reproductive health information, education, including comprehensive sexuality education and healthcare services.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable chair, mr tobé, and all the members of the committee on development for their excellent work and for the close collaboration between our respective institutions on this important file. i welcome your resolutions and the questions on the ongoing negotiations on the renewed partnership agreement between the european union and the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. the negotiations are progressing, i would say, at moderate pace. as chief negotiator, i have to be realistic. when the cotonou agreement expires on 29 february next year, the negotiations will not have sufficiently advanced and there will be a need to have transitional measures in place. therefore, i am glad that the council has adopted a decision supporting the extension of the cotonou agreement until 31 december 2020. this way, a solid legal basis can remain in place during the transition period. the eu-acp committee of ambassadors will take the final joint decision by the end of january 2020 at the latest. at this advanced stage of the negotiations i appreciate that parliament wishes to reiterate the core elements formulated in the two earlier resolutions of october 2016 and june 2018. your opinion has been heard. you have one key demand: the strengthening of the parliamentary dimension, including at the eu-acp level. i strongly believe that the role of parliament should be enforced in the future agreement. however, in line with the negotiation directives from the council, i also believe that this can best take place at the level of the regional protocols and less so at the level of the eu—acp. nevertheless, the commission takes note of the recommendation formulated by parliament on this heading. i would also like to recall that the recommendation by the commission to the council of december 2017 included the proposal that the three regional parliamentary configurations could be brought into one on specific occasions. eventually, that proposal did not become part of the council’s negotiation directives. honourable members, i welcome your question on political dialogue. we have put forward to our acp partners a proposal for comprehensive dialogue covering all objectives, priorities and policy areas. i also welcome your concern for a genuine multi—actor partnership. the eu has a clear position: we are seeking from all parties a commitment to facilitate the active engagement of a wide variety of actors in dialogue and cooperation processes. concerning your call for reinforcing provisions to fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity, and for upholding sexual and reproductive health and rights, i can say that we are aligned on this but i note that our proposals to the acp side have not received a positive feedback and further negotiation is required. so far, we have a bracketed part of this paragraph. on migration, the commission appreciates the concern of parliament. the european union and the acp are currently negotiating a balanced text seeking a substantial compromise between the negotiation interests of both parties. concerning the economic partnership agreements, i would like to recall that these are self—standing international agreements. however, the post—cotonou agreement will provide a coherent framework for cooperation with acp states, linking all negotiated and future epas to respect for essential and fundamental elements. lastly, honourable members, your question on the sustainable development goals (sdg) is welcome. it gives me the opportunity to recall that the un agenda 2030 will frame the future acp—eu partnership agreement. our comprehensive dialogue with the acp partners and a multi—actor approach will be essential to put in place the conditions and instruments for regular monitoring and implementation of the sdgs.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. without the cooperation of the african, caribbean and pacific countries and the union, it is impossible to tackle challenges such as migration, climate change, access to education, access and security. the cotonou agreement, still in force today, offers a framework for cooperation to address these very challenges. the possible delay in the entry into force of the new convention simply puts europe at a competitive disadvantage. europe can only be interested in reducing the effects of migration in developing countries, in strengthening democratization processes and security. the most important aspect of the development of cooperation is education and vocational training. let me draw your attention to one special thing about this. for the acp countries, cooperation with church organisations is almost essential, but at present it is almost zero. consider, for example, that according to world bank data, 50 percent of health care and education in sub-saharan africa is provided by religious organizations. accordingly, it is very important that our development partners include church organizations. in the new solution, the commission must find a solution, or at least try to find a solution, to address the root causes of migration. as commissioner urpilainen said at her hearing, we need to focus on addressing the root causes in the coming years. we are looking for an agreement that will be more effective than ever in terms of the readmission of migrants, that will make it a strategic objective to stay in the homeland, to provide security, quality education and decent work in the country. to achieve these objectives, the ndici should be applied from 2021 and, on the basis of a proposal from the commission, the edf, the main source of development assistance to acp countries, could be integrated into it. the commission notes that the ndici is a public body, which is not a public body, but a public body. we must take account of the specific needs of the acp countries and treat them as equal partners. in conclusion, we expect the commission to reach an agreement that will facilitate stability and return on migration, taking into account the specific characteristics of the different acp countries and reinforcing the role of the european parliament in acp-eu cooperation. thank you for listening.
the debate on the negotiations for a new acp-eu agreement, which has been initiated by the committee on development, is very timely and i welcome the initiative of its chairman. and as has been said here, the european parliament has over time expressed very clear positions on the objectives and the mechanisms for the implementation of the future agreement. this was reflected and shared last week in kigali, rwanda, where the 30th joint parliamentary assembly was held, which i co-chaired on behalf of the european parliament. and from that meeting, among more than 100 countries representing almost two billion people, emerged a strong consensus, a consensus for timing and mandates to be met to be able to close the deal in november 2020, translating into a robust partnership, among equals, inspired by the millennium agenda. but also a consensus for a flexible approach to be adopted, which would allow a shared framework for sustainable development to be reconciled within the acp-eu relationship, but also with subregional economic and trade partnerships, and in particular with the eu-african union partnership. and finally, a consensus to rationalize and strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the agreement, as part of our differentiating matrix in an increasingly competitive geopolitical context in which we must know how to make a difference. i am aware that talking about the cotonou agreement or the agreement that will succeed it means very little to most europeans. but if we become clear about how crucial it is to tackling certification, climate change, forced migration, the conflicts generated by the exploitation of endemic poverty and the fragility of institutions, we will be able to show that a good design, a good implementation of the agreement, is good for the people of africa, the caribbean and the pacific, the european union and for humanity in general. and then we will have the majority of europeans with us and we will be stronger as the european union. i would like to take the last few seconds of my speech to greet and congratulate the commissioner on the excellent work he has done.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, at a time when everyone from china to russia has recognised the potential of africa as a continent for the 21st century, the european union is approaching these negotiations from a position of weakness, not only because nothing has been planned to mitigate the departure of the united kingdom, a major financial contributor and diplomatic player, but because the failure of cotonou is clear. the failure is primarily political, since neither multilateral dialogue, embodied in institutions that have struggled to produce any concrete results, nor the binding instruments have been successful. the second failure concerns immigration, because, even though article 13 has no effect, this resolution rejects any conditionality of aid to control migration flows by the countries of origin, which should, on the contrary, be one of our first requirements. finally, on the economic front, the poor progress made last week by the pact with africa, launched by germany, is yet another blow to the private investment stimulus. the same will be true of its global framework for action, pompously dubbed the marshall plan for africa. how could it be otherwise when the basic material conditions are not guaranteed? in the sahel, the tragic disappearance of 13 of my compatriots is a reminder that french soldiers are fighting alone against islamic terrorism. while so many international commitments have not been kept on the ground, indifference is paid for with blood.
the european parliament has approved the negotiations for a new agreement between the european union and the 78 countries of the african, caribbean and pacific association of states. this negotiation incorporated into its initial text the need to address challenges such as the climate crisis. it gave greater prominence to civil society and strengthened parliamentary control of the agreement. we do not understand how it is that a month ago, in the committee on development, the text of this agreement was approved by a majority, but now the ppe group is threatening to destroy the agreement. what do the pp group and the far right want? the previous speaker said it loud and clear: to make development aid conditional on migration control, which in practice is leading to systematic violations of human rights in many places. we have seen too many atrocities in the use of european union development aid funds in recent years to continue to make development aid conditional on immigration control. this, ladies and gentlemen, is not only infamous and neo-colonial but also - and we must say it loud and clear - it breaks all international protocols. let's not make that mistake tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. we are committed to a development policy that is not at the service of a 'strong europe', that does not respond to the interests of the far right but that is at the service of the people and the planet. your vote will determine whether you serve the people or oppose the people. you decide.
madam president, last week i had the honour of attending the 38th acp-eu joint assembly in kigali, rwanda, and i had many fruitful conversations with my acp colleagues who expressed their regret and concern that the post-cotonou negotiations are taking longer than anticipated. we agreed that the greatest future potential of the acp countries lies with the youth, and we should promote it now. young citizens have innovative ideas for shaping the future relations between the acp and the eu. therefore, my question is, have youth organisations and associations been involved in the consultation on the post-cotonou negotiations? if so, at what level and, if not, given that the negotiations are still ongoing, would you consider including their voices?
mr president, we are now discussing the compatibility of the mercosur agreement with the green deal. i agree with commissioner hogan that it is not only compatible, but that if it is properly and well implemented, it is a key part of the green deal. understandably, the green deal places a lot of emphasis on climate policy and how we move towards a carbon-neutral europe. but it is important to remember that the pursuit of sustainable development implies economic, social and environmental sustainability. and when we are pursuing all three, including an economically and socially sustainable europe and a sustainable world, trade policy has a very important role to play. it is not enough for the european union to achieve carbon neutrality alone, we need the rest of the world to join us. our own share of global emissions is only 10 percent. trade policy is a very important part of getting other parts of the world involved. we have not made as much progress as we would have liked at the madrid meeting, and it is now important that the united states, china and india in particular are committed to international climate action in the coming year. it is important that all new eu trade agreements, including the mercosur agreement, include sustainable development figures, which are monitored by a separate committee. the effective implementation and monitoring of these sustainable development indicators is of paramount importance.
madam president, in a time of complex interdependencies, the european union's relations with the world are certainly not based on protectionist and self-enclosed equations. trade agreements in this sense must be seen as opportunities both for increasing our exports of goods and services and for creating jobs. but these agreements also represent spaces for dialogue and understanding with the world, important in promoting values and practices of sustainable development, human and labour rights, environmental rights, animal welfare rules, food health and safety, fair trade, thus bringing countries and latitudes closer to objectives that must be absolutely global. that is why the political commitments included in the mercosur agreement, namely the mutual commitment to implement the paris agreement or to comply with environmental agreements such as the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, are very important signals, but they cannot be seen as mere rhetorical exercises. it is essential that the european union does not hesitate to apply all the instruments of control which will enable it to act in an uncompromising manner against any breach of the rules and any attempt to boycott the achievement of ambitions which are compatible with the green deal.
madam president, there are political inconsistencies which the peoples of europe are rightly unwilling to tolerate any longer. unfortunately, our agreement with our partners in argentina, brazil, uruguay and paraguay is a striking demonstration of this. at a time when europe promises to innovate with an ecological barrier, preventing imports from countries which do not respect our environmental standards, how can we imagine that some, in the most complete opacity and in our name, can allow south american countries to flood the european market with food products containing substances prohibited to our own farmers? to this ecological absurdity would be added a large-scale social plan, which the european parliament must refuse to be complicit in. as elected representatives of the people, how do you want us to tell the cattle farmers, who are already in crisis, that they should also have to bear the cost of nearly 100 000 tonnes of south american meat treated with antibiotics every year? who would believe that we would allow the mass arrival of substandard products in supermarkets, posing real risks to public health and our children, in defiance of family farms that fight every day to survive and ensure food security? we must respond firmly, responsibly and with common sense to harmful agreements. i say to you, we have to stop being the naïve ones about globalization. my message is clear: it is high time for us, the peoples of europe, to take back control of our destiny.
madam president, the question in front of us is whether the green deal and the mercosur free trade agreement can be compatible. the eu—mercosur agreement includes a binding commitment for the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement, but this commitment is made in the sustainable development chapter and, as such, is not subject to trade sanctions. if the agreement were ratified as it is and brazil backtracks on its paris commitments, including the goal of zero illegal deforestation in the brazilian amazon by 2030, the eu cannot sanction brazil’s behaviour by taking away its trade preferences. brazil is now a challenging partner for the eu, as we learned last week in the madrid cop25 meeting. but in the european green deal, the commission proposed to make respect of the paris agreement an essential element for all future comprehensive trade agreements. the disrespect of an essential element of an agreement would give grounds for trade sanctions. so i propose the solution that parliament should now demand that, as a condition for ratifying the trade deal, the paris climate pledge should be made an essential element of the mercosur agreement. i’m the one looking for a solution to make this agreement a progressive tool to fight climate change.
madam president, i recognize that the debate itself reveals a number of bottlenecks in the international agreement we are negotiating, but i also think that we should stick to the facts. first of all, it's important that the countries of mercosur and of course the european union signed the paris climate agreement, and that brazil is the key country to solve our deforestation problem. what happens when we can't make a deal with brazil, when we so-called ditch it? i am the rapporteur for the commission communication on strengthening european union action to protect and restore the world's forests. i would also like to call on my green colleagues to engage constructively on this issue and to find solutions to engage brazil positively in addressing deforestation. secondly, the agreement between the european union and mercosur also included a chapter on trade and sustainable development in the strengthening of investment and trade relations and said in this chapter that the environment will be fully respected and issues such as sustainable management and forest protection will be addressed. please, let's stick to the facts, that's important, that's the deal.
madam president, congratulations to you, chief hogan. the european union emits almost three times as many greenhouse gases as mercosur, but we are global leaders in the fight against climate change. the green deal and the commitment to become the first climate neutral region by 2050 is good evidence of this, but it is certainly not enough. it requires the commitment and involvement of all. the atmosphere has no boundaries. the eu-mercosur agreement is therefore of particular importance, with an ambitious, legally binding sustainable development chapter and an effective commitment to implement the paris agreement on climate change and to roll back and drop trade preferences if not complied with. it should be recalled that, thanks to the agreement, brazil is committed to halting illegal deforestation and to reducing its net greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels, being the only major developing country to undertake this. and this is possible because there is an agreement. there is still a long way to go, we have to improve, we have to ensure compliance and be really vigilant. and this parliament will have an important role to play in that.
madam president, commissioner hogan, the eu-mercosur agreement is undoubtedly important and economically beneficial, since it affects 770 million consumers, safeguards protected indications and reduces tariffs. but it is first and foremost a very challenging agreement, and the main reason why this agreement is very challenging is that it is an environmental certification for products entering the european union. it is necessary today, commissioner hogan, to assure our citizens, to assure the farmers of the european union, the farmers of greece, that the products coming into the european union from the mercosur countries will carry environmental certification. that they'll have the same rules as the european union has. the mercosur can also be a powerful lever to ensure that these countries can join us in the ambitious goal of the green deal for 2050. but above all, we must be realistic. we have heard the announcements of the president of brazil. this means that mercosur can be undermined in practice, that brazil can finally withdraw from the paris climate agreement, be the cause of its shipwreck ... (the president interrupts)
president, with a donald trump crippling the wto, with a xi jinping watching and with a boris johnson seemingly bent on a hard brexit, europe must lead. we are the largest consumer market in the world. this brings with it a great responsibility, but also an opportunity to make global trade sustainable. we can and must take the lead in this. the green deal also calls for action. we can and must ensure that the paris agreements are respected in future trade agreements. and there should be sanctions. because compliance is important, not just compliance by trump, xi and johnson, but also by bolsonaro, because a climate sceptic who is getting in the way in madrid and who is deforesting the amazon at a rapid pace is not a good trading partner for the eu.
it is clear, mr president, that we must examine both past and future trade agreements, especially the mercosur free trade agreement now on the table, in the light of the objectives of sustainable development and the crises. this means that we can hardly do it any more and we should definitely not do it in the traditional old world free trade agreements, or just trade agreements, but we must move on to complex agreements, because it is necessary to deal with the conditions of the workers, the way our textiles or products are made, the production processes or, for example, the way animals are treated in food production, the type of pesticides used or whether gmo soybeans are used for feeding, for which rainforests have been cut down. sustainable development is not achieved through a purely trade agreement framework.
madam president, the treaty with the mercosur countries contains conditions for these countries to be forced to adopt environmental and social standards. i see it as a means of promoting the objectives of the european green deal. however, this contract has a risk in terms of the impact on farmers, i expect commissioner hogan to confirm the guarantee and compensation of at least one billion euros and other measures for farmers in case there are indeed significant impacts. with these guarantees, i can accept a contract. but i do not accept the behavior and actions of president bolsonaro and his relationship to the devastation of the amazon. he's almost supporting her, we know that. so for me, the agreement with mercosur will be acceptable if president bolsonaro gives guarantees and takes concrete measures to stop the devastation of the amazon and the loss of the amazon forest. without that specific guarantee from president bolsonaro himself, i'm not going to sign off on this deal. i think it's a good tool to push the main objective of the european green deal, which is to reduce carbon dioxide and emissions.
madam president, the mercosur agreement is more than just an economic agreement, it is also a set of values, it is sustainable development, it is a social commitment, it is sustainability, it is a requirement, it is reciprocity, and it is compatible with the european green deal. and it's also an opportunity we can't afford to miss. through this agreement, the european union and mercosur commit themselves to the effective implementation of the paris agreement. a mercosur agreement which devotes a chapter to sustainable development, the conservation of forests, respect for fundamental rights, and the promotion of corporate social responsibility. an agreement that also empowers civil society. it gives it an active role in overseeing its implementation and provides for the protection of the rights of indigenous communities. finally, an agreement which also includes reference to the precautionary principle, one of the most innovative mechanisms for combating climate change. it is also worth noting that this mercosur agreement will become internal law in the countries of the south american bloc when it is ratified, and that is why we believe that we cannot miss this opportunity and that this proposal is absolutely compatible and desirable to work hand in hand with the ecological pact, with the 'new green deal'.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, can i thank the 64 speakers that have contributed to this debate? the european green deal, of course, is the new lens through which so many eu policies will now be seen, and trade policy is certainly, and quite rightly, no different. i was very taken by the lavish praise of the green party in relation to the von der leyen commission and what she and the commission are trying to do in relation to the european green deal, and i have to wonder why you didn’t vote for the commission led by madame von der leyen in the vote for the entire commission. but maybe that’s a different story. you don’t seem to be ever satisfied. but can i agree with ms jongerius, who said that this deal is an opportunity? and today we do not have any deal whatsoever with the mercosur countries in order to find a way in which those four countries could embrace a much more progressive opportunity for environment and climate action. many of the concerns that have been expressed by members of this house – certainly i don’t know any other mechanism, except to write a letter, or to speak here in parliament, or to speak in an international forum. but i don’t know any mechanism have we have leverage, except through trade arrangements. i certainly feel that this is an opportunity to bring those four countries on board. now, i did note that there are certainly many speakers in this house who have not studied the deal, and i respectfully say that we should look at it again, because i want to make a few observations. it is certainly wrong to suggest that the eu-mercosur deal that we negotiated in 2019 is responsible for the fires in the amazon. people are trying to convey this message here in various contributions, which is utter nonsense. we totally abhor what president bolsonaro and his government have done in neglecting their duty in relation to protecting the amazon. all of us share this objective. but we have to ask ourselves: what is the leverage we have to make sure that this sort of scenario will not happen again? what is the leverage we have with president bolsonaro to ensure that he and his government protect this great place of nature and protect the amazon? all of us share this objective. the deal is certainly a deal that’s long-standing in terms of negotiations – over 20 years. but we did, at the end of the day, find a basis where we could have a very balanced outcome in relation to sustainability. president bolsonaro campaigned in his election to say that he did not want to become part of the paris climate agreement. he was adopting the same policy position as president trump. he changed his mind in the context of this agreement and has now embraced the paris agreement, and we will see what will happen in terms of its implementation. but what this agreement – i want to outline to the people that say there’s no progress made in relation to any issues of sustainability – this agreement includes a binding commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement, of which all mercosur countries are signatories. and brazil’s nationally-determined contributions under this paris agreement include the following pledges, to be achieved by 2030: zero illegal deforestation in the brazilian amazon and compensation for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from legal deforestation. secondly, restoring and reforesting 12 million hectares of forest for multiple purposes. thirdly, strengthening the implementation of the forest code. and fourthly, enhancing sustainable management of natural forests with a view to curbing illegal and unsustainable practices. there is a commitment to reforest 12 million hectares by 2030, which amounts to restoring over one million hectares per year, compared to the loss of a half a million hectares of forestry at the moment. so if we don’t have this agreement, how are we going to make sure that we have the binding commitments being implemented? today we have no forum at all to address these issues, and this, in my view, is progress. the association agreement will also provide a solid framework for where we can actually include provisions regarding the promotion of the role of indigenous communities in sustainable supply chains of forestry products or cooperation to promote sustainable social products involving these communities. so it’s not true to say we have neglected the indigenous communities. on social rights, which have been mentioned by some speakers: all mercosur countries have ratified the eight ilo conventions, except one convention in one country. so three countries have ratified all eight and one country has ratified seven. so to say there is no social progress made in relation to this agreement is, again, wrong. furthermore, the eu and mercosur have negotiated a firm agreement to labour standards in the agreement, in order to ensure that trade relationships are not developed at the expense of social or labour rights, but instead, fostering mutual support of this between economic growth, social development and environmental protection. the eu and mercosur agreement commits to promoting a decent work agenda, which includes issues such as effective work inspections, ensuring health and safety at work, providing decent working conditions such as regular breaks, or clear contracts or reasonable working hours. so these are just some examples, perhaps, that were not mentioned in the debate that are part of the agreement, and i fundamentally believe that we need to study this carefully. now, agricultural products, of course, are sensitive products. beef, sugar and ethanol were particularly sensitive, and that’s why we have tariff rate quotas. and i would remind the house that we have 276 000 tonnes of a beef quota already with the mercosur countries in the european union, going back over many years. and this quota is not being filled, because the eu standards have risen in such an extent over the years that the mercosur countries are not able to meet those standards, and no product comes into the european union from the mercosur countries, particularly related to agriculture, unless there’s 100% inspections. and the reason we have a lot of products that are returned to those countries is because our controls are working. we have 100% controls at the moment, and this, in my view, should continue. there will be no diminution of eu standards, and we will protect them. all our geographical indications of this deal are protected, and this is a signal of quality products, as you know in your member state countries, particularly in france, italy, spain and portugal. i know my good friend mr wallace has a slight interest in social and environmental matters, and i welcome his new-found interest in these matters. but i’m glad that i was able to explain to my good friend mr wallace what huge advances are being made now in environment and social protections, which i know are a massive concern to you and which you will be able to tell your constituents now of the enormous progress that has been made. finally, we need some leverage in order to ensure that all of the economic, environmental and social dimensions of our free trade agreements and that our trade is able to be used as leverage. and i was taken by what madame kumpula-natri has mentioned in the course of a contribution. let’s see in the clarification process and in the legal scrubbing of this deal how we can improve it and give more clarity in relation to the issues of concern to members of this house. i will work with you to try and ensure that the interpretation of this deal and the clarification that you require at all times will be made available to you in order to improve the prospects of approval of this deal. this house has to consent to this deal before it actually goes to the member states. finally, could i say, for 20 years, the european union has been seeking to negotiate a deal with our friends in latin america and trying to forge links that have been neglected for many years. we now have an opportunity to say to our friends in south america that our long-forgotten cousins and relatives from europe, who are now in south america, that we are prepared to work with you on economic, environmental and social matters.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for this very timely and useful debate on this pressing issue that is a matter of concern to us all. thank you very much for your valuable remarks. i listened very carefully to your concerns and i will certainly convey them to the council. and, dear friends, we all share the view that we need to do our utmost to tackle climate change and environmentally related challenges, which are becoming ever more urgent. the commission’s european green deal proposes a comprehensive strategy which we will now all need to study carefully. this is a welcome initiative and i would like to thank the commission and commissioner hogan for this. trade forms an important policy area where sustainability is an important element. it serves as a platform to engage with trading partners on climate and on environmental action, and the trade agreement with mercosur needs to be seen in this light as an opportunity to promote change. i firmly believe that this should be seen as an opportunity to promote change, and this will not happen by itself. some of you referred to the possibility of renegotiating a new deal. now renegotiating the mercosur trade deal is easier said than done. while the current agreement is not perfect – and of course no agreement ever is – it is economically relevant. it is also of great political and geo-strategic significance that goes way beyond the eu-mercosur context, and importantly, it represents an opportunity for the eu to export its high social and environmental standards to the region. the eu cannot reverse deforestation and the impacts of climate change on its own. working with third countries in a spirit of cooperation and trust is of the utmost importance. this holds true also for trade agreements and in particular as far as the sustainable development chapters are concerned. i believe that trade offers us real leverage, but we need to be prepared to use it and accept that, at the end, this will also involve inevitable trade-offs. thank you very much for this important debate.
in writing. i welcome the holding of such a debate. finally, some people question the incompatibility of trade agreements with the fight for the environment. but what hypocrisy! three weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, you voted by a majority to almost triple the imports of american beef into europe. in voting for this, there was little concern for the environment, let alone the impact on european employment. the impact study on this agreement with mercosur shows that 33 000 jobs are lost each year, the eu's agricultural trade deficit is 5.2 billion euro, and the average agricultural income of european farmers has fallen by 1.6%. not to mention the explosion of meat imports from south america and the serious consequences for european production, when the european market is already saturated. so to bring from the end of the world what we already have at home, and at the same time say that we are fighting for the environment, is regrettable. when the agreement is voted down, we will see who the meps and governments are who really care about the planet!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the european union has repeatedly spoken about the situation in xinjiang. we have done this in multilateral fora, such as the last human rights council in geneva in september and the united nations general assembly in new york in october, and i did recently at my meeting with the foreign affairs minister of china in madrid. we continue to be gravely concerned about the existence of the so-called ‘political education camps’. reliable and multiple sources of research indicates that it has almost certainly affected over one million people. another major source of concern is the use of widespread intrusive surveillance. we understand that advance technologies rely on biometrics, and artificial intelligence is used to monitor and keep files on residents in xinjiang. this includes the registration of very sensitive biometric data and the widespread use of facial recognition. credible reports refer to severe limitations to the freedom of conscience and religion, with closure of, or controls imposed on, places of worship, as well as limitations on religious education and education in minority languages. nobody disputes the right of any country to take legitimate measures to combat terrorism and ensure security, but to our understanding, the policies applied in xinjiang appear disproportionate to the stated aim of fighting against terrorism and extremism. this was also the conclusion of 12 united nations special procedure mandate holders who analysed the application of the counterterrorism law in china and came to the conclusion that it raises serious concerns regarding arbitrary detention, enforced disappearances and absence of judicial oversight. i would also like to recall our request to allow meaningful access to the region for independent observers: united nations special procedure mandate holders and the un high commissioner for human rights. so far, these appeals have not been heard. granting them would be an important step. i’ve been talking with the chinese authorities in order for our ambassadors to make such a meaningful visit to the region. the award ceremony today will also highlight the importance of respecting the rights of people belonging to minorities to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and the right to education. the european union will continue to express its principal position and to raise its concerns regarding xinjiang in the framework of its political dialogue with china and internationally, including for sure on the united nations stage. on behalf of the eu, i will continue to call on china to uphold its national and international obligations and to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. thank you for your attention; i am looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, it has been 20 years since china signed the international covenant on civil and political rights. since then, the international community has been waiting for china to ratify the pact. while china has made progress in the area of social rights, the situation of civil and political rights has worsened. we affirm that the arrest and internment of people who have defended the rights of a community, as is the case for the uyghurs in xinjiang province, is unacceptable. the european parliament cannot remain silent after the revelations of the china cables, which show how widespread and systematic the oppression of the uyghurs is. the european union cannot remain unresponsive and this reaction cannot be limited to mere words, even if these are important and indispensable. today's award of the sakharov prize to ilham tohti is a powerful act that rewards and gives visibility to a peaceful commitment to the rights of a community oppressed simply because of its ethnic identity and religious beliefs. the number of uighurs in prison exceeds one million. the information we receive from these camps in xinjiang is unworthy of a great nation of the 21st century. the chinese authorities claim that the reality is quite different. the presence of these people in the camps is voluntary, and some have even compared these places to boarding schools. if that is the case, then what is stopping china from allowing international community observers and journalists to visit these camps? we call on china to open up these camps and release those detained for simply expressing the need of an ethnic community or for living out their religious beliefs. i also think it is essential that we ensure that products which are produced in these camps are not available on the eu market. no company, no society, none of us can accept to profit from forced labour. we all have to take responsibility.
