in writing. it is very easy to say simply no. it's harder to offer a solution. now that the british parliament has voted against the government's proposed deal, it would only be logical for parliament to choose one of two possible paths: to propose a new constructive solution or to ask the british people in a referendum whether they support the brexit the government has negotiated with the eu. the worst-case scenario would be for the uk to leave the eu without a deal. the uk would feel the same way the next day, even more so, since, for example, a large proportion of medicines and foodstuffs are imported from other eu member states. the status of eu citizens in the uk and the safeguarding of their rights would also be unclear. at the same time, i would also like to point out the continuation of other less publicised but extremely important projects whose viability may be threatened by a no-deal brexit. i am concerned about the status of latvian students in the uk and the fate of various research programmes involving latvian, eu and british scientists. for cooperation on various education and science programmes to continue after the uk leaves the eu, an agreement is essential.
mr president, as a result of globalisation, the restructuring of companies puts many workers at risk. however, i don’t claim that globalisation is a negative phenomenon, it brings us enormous opportunities that our parents did not have. however, what we need now is more solidarity, and i want to thank maria arena, my socialist colleague from belgium, for keeping this spirit in her report. i welcome the amendments that speak about the technological, energy and environmental aspects of globalisation. it brings significant added—value to the commission proposal. however, tackling globalisation is not possible without adjusting social policies. if you look at latvia, my country, low birth rates and high levels of emigration are changing the face of our labour industry very rapidly. as a report by the baltic centre for investigative journalism concluded, almost half of all latvian residents would be over 50 years old by 2030. that is why the eu must help our country or it will be made up of pensioners.
mr president, it is a big asset of this report that the member states can flexibly channel the money into the most urgent matters, be it the labour market, working conditions, social protection, education or health protection. however, it is crucial that the commission carries out oversight of how and on what this money is spent. i say this because some countries, such as latvia, have very specific issues. in latvia the russian-speaking minority, accounting for 24% of the population, is not allowed to pursue higher education in the russian language, and according to the new school reform, our children will not be able to study in their native language from september 2019. the youth unemployment rate in latvia reached almost 11% in december 2018. this is a clear sign that our young people simply cannot take an academic or professional path due to a very restrictive and discriminatory language policy. we should stop it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the last century taught us a harsh lesson in how dangerous and unpredictable authoritarian regimes and dictatorships are. that’s why totalitarian crimes must not be repeated. we need education, research and remembrance to build immunity and resilience in our societies against every temptation of undemocratic solutions. europeans need this knowledge in order to clearly recognise and resist nationalists, populists and radicals on both the left and the right and to prevent them from hijacking and denigrating our democratic values and brainwashing our open societies. the european union was constructed against the backdrop of trauma brought about by national socialism and communism. also, they defied ideology. they originated as groups of populists who used manipulation to grab power in order to build the most brutal regimes that claimed the lives of millions. the historical experience of western europe was nazism, whereas central and eastern european countries have experienced both communism and nazism. these authoritarian regimes are our common legacy, and europe must be able to speak in one language about this double legacy. to this end, the union should provide a framework and sufficient financial funding for comprehensive research into europe’s totalitarianism – both totalitarianisms – as well as educational programmes and cultural projects. we also need the full opening up of historical archives to verify the historical lies. we have to see the clear link between populism, extremism, autocracy and dictatorship around the world. moreover, we have to act in response to mass violations of human rights be it in russia, china, iran or in jihadism or islamism.
madam president, for me and for the socialists and democrats the high point of 2017 was certainly the establishment of the european social pillar, and eu citizens’ basic human rights is one of the most important values. this is also one of the first things that foreigners point out when they speak about eu foreign policy. but in our home things are far from perfect. what i find really alarming in the second report of our fundamental rights agency on minorities and discrimination is that discrimination is still a reality for many people in the eu. illegal hate speech online puts the well-being of too many europeans at risk. inefficient integration policy brings vulnerability to migrants on our soil. i realise that in order to address such issues, the fra need a larger mandate, but it is also true that this subject is still mainly in the hands of the member states. but of course i voted in favour.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, rice imports from south-east asia, namely from cambodia and myanmar, have become a sensitive issue for the eu in the last two years. i noted that european rice producers have become more and more vocal on human rights and labour standards violation in cambodia and myanmar, linking these issues to the gsp+ provisions. we all know that the general scheme of preference (gsp) has three objectives, to contribute to poverty eradication by expanding exports from countries most in need. secondly, to promote sustainable development and good governance and ensure that the eu’s financial and economic interests are safeguarded. i agree that if we produce a human rights clause into our trade agreements, it has to be respected and gsp+ can be revoked in case of non-compliance. but don’t you see a moral issue in the fact that we start to point the finger at labour standards in asia only after the economic interests of european companies get affected? personally i do. the ‘everything but arms’ (eba) arrangement is a preferential arrangement, and we need to keep in mind that granting tax exceptions for imports is our right but not our obligation. therefore, i suggest that the european commission has a very close look on how our eba agreements are applied. human rights promotions and protection is the flagship of the eu activity and we cannot discredit our international engagement in human rights by giving preferences to those sources who blatantly abuse workers. this makes the eu inconsistent in the eyes of the world and weakens our credibility. i can understand that revoking a preferential status after it has been granted is a politically painful act that we all would like to avoid, but that is why i want to underline once more the commission’s duty of oversight, so that eba preferences are given only if our partner has a concrete strategy for human rights improvement. on 16 march 2018, the commission decided to initiate a safeguard investigation to clarify the impact of indica rice imports. we in the european parliament here are waiting for the results to have some predictability for our rice industry. the stakes are high. only in case of italy, we are speaking about 4 265 farms and more than 100 rice companies generating annual turnover of more than eur 1 billion euros. these companies are heavily jeopardised now. concluding, i want to say that the revocation of the gsp+ can bring about a positive change in the markets of south asia. it will lead them to rely less on exports to the eu, develop more added-value products and raise the standards of working conditions.
the blue card issue. thank you very much, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to ask a question to my colleague. i don't really understand your position. on the one hand, you said that the consumer rights are sacred if we want rice, then no matter where it is produced, we will accept it without import duties. on the other hand, do you really care about the conditions under which rice or any other product is produced? if human rights are not respected, if minimum standards are not respected, do we really have an obligation in the european union to accept these products in spite of our highest values, which we have proclaimed for a relatively long time?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commissioner jourová! you guys! i want to talk about the fact that just a week ago latvia's new government was approved. it is currently chaired by arthur krishjanis kariņš, our colleague from the epp group. but how often do we, in the committees of this house and in plenary sessions and elsewhere, talk about the fact that citizens of third countries are being included in our wishes, in our european processes, in the attempts of putin, the kremlin, everything. but krishnan karnich is an american citizen! imagine this situation, my colleagues. a us citizen is currently the head of government of a european union member state! and it's all right! i think we need to develop criteria that third country nationals are outside. we have to rely on the european citizens.
madam president, i agree that more transparency and accountability in the decision-making is needed. however, i cannot agree with the concept of political affinity for the formation of political groups in the european parliament. we do not have concrete criteria and parameters for that, apart from the fact that the word ‘affinity’ does not have any legal force. as we can see from the results, the votes of the group can be inconsistent and incoherent on some issues. we have the freedom of vote, and this is something our electorate relies on. we represent the citizens and the residents of the european union to advance their needs, and we cannot do it if we are strictly limited by belonging to the group. in order not to make the ep dysfunctional and in order that it will continue to be a truly democratic institution, we must continue the practice of free and voluntary group formation. that is why i abstained.
madam president, the lisbon treaty says that member states must fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the union as they do to counter the fraud affecting their own financial interests. unfortunately, the corruption in the member states does not stop at their borders, and it has a spill-over effect to the eu. as a result, we lose both citizens’ trust in national public administration and in eu institutions. i wish all our national police and investigation authorities would read the report tomorrow, instead of the morning paper. the figures are really alarming. vat fraud costs the union around eur 15 billion annually. olaf very rarely carries our investigations into irregularities concerning vat, due to a lack of instruments. since it’s clear that we cannot fully rely on the efforts of 28 or 27 national anti-fraud systems, we need to give more possibilities to olaf.
madam president, i welcome the report drafted by my colleague, mr federley, and i voted in favour. although the .eu top-level domain (tld) functions well, it is also true that the online environment and market are evolving very quickly, and we should always think one step ahead. therefore, the legal framework governing the domain has to be adapted. the .eu domain is also an element of our common online identity. therefore, we have to be careful with what falls under this domain name. multilingualism, respect for privacy and security, consumer protection, human rights: yes, all these principles must be upheld for granting this domain name. the european parliament has to exercise major control over it and should be able to establish the criteria in the procedure for the registry.
in writing. the afco report on the implementation of eu citizenship had the clear objective of assessing the rights of citizens under the eu's basic laws and suggesting ways to better demonstrate the benefits of eu citizenship and promote social integration. however, i find totally unacceptable amendments which link the concept of eu citizenship and benefits in any way to residence status or which seek to increase the range of languages used in the eu by including minority languages from different regions in official eu communication. first, the eu treaties stipulate that eu citizenship, and the privileges and rights associated with it, are reserved for nationals of the eu member states. attempts to link eu citizenship to residence status in an eu member state diminish eu citizenship and turn it into a commodity rather than a benefit for citizens of the member states. secondly, the eu has 24 official languages - the official languages of the member states - in which the eu institutions can be contacted. the proposals to allow official communication with the eu institutions, including in minority languages, are a cheap pre-election trick that i categorically do not support.
mr president, the european elections are approaching, and now we have to discuss about all the missed signals related to the influence of fake news and third state propaganda on the results of the upcoming elections. some people asked us to limit contacts with the mass media of the russian federation. of course, i cannot deny the problem or fake news and propaganda. it exists really, but at the same time is, it is another important obstacle for the free political process in the eu that makes us to go on in cooperation with russian tv channels and news agencies. the main reason is the exclusion of opposition and minority parties from the mainstream national media in some eu countries. for example, in our country, latvia, the only way we can reach voters is to cooperate with the media of neighbouring russia. i am sure we need a comprehensive legal framework at the eu level in order to monitor and ensure a fair approach for all political forces to the mass media... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we often complain about multi-speed eu integration, but what are the reasons why countries like latvia lag behind? some would say it is because of the soviet legacy but, in fact, that is a cover for the real problems, which are the demographic crisis, massive immigration and disrespect for minority rights. when latvian citizens voted for accession to the european union, they voted for a high quality of citizenship, as in all the eu member states. now they are frustrated because there is no common european citizenry standard. many of the democratic deficits attributed to the eu are, in reality, the fault of national policies. in latvia, 12% of the population are declared non-citizens and are simply cut off from any political participation; 40% are members of the russian-speaking minority, without any instrument to defend their fundamental rights as a minority. in western europe it would seem like a bad dream: in latvia it is reality.
madam president, the recent report of the court of auditors gives us alarming figures. in 2017, fraudulent use of eu funds amounted to eur 391 million but only 15% of the total volume of fraud was actually recovered. some eu funds were misused by national politicians for their families, other funds were misused in the agricultural sector. the economic interests and most importantly political credibility of the eu are seriously damaged because there is no truly european mechanism for fraud detection. colleagues, it is here now that to combat fraud we cannot fully rely on national authorities who are sometimes themselves involved in fraud. i welcome the commission’s proposal aiming at protecting the financial interest of the european union and i welcome the amendments in the report of mr salafranca sánchez-neyra that call for major cooperation among the relevant agencies and bodies like olaf, eurojust, europol, the european public prosecutor’s office and so on. i voted in favour.
madam president, we must be careful with the tool of enhanced cooperation. first of all, by design it undermines the unity of the eu action and it has repercussions internally and externally. second, the unanimity rule inside the coalition of the willing allows one member state to sabotage the whole process, creating the conditions for a trojan horse to undermine relations among member states. third, the real impact on enhanced cooperation is relative. just take the example of the european public prosecutor’s office. it will not have jurisdiction over hungary, poland, ireland, sweden, britain and denmark, which opt out. as a result, combating fraud at eu level will have limited effect because these countries will be free riding. i was the shadow rapporteur of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs’ opinion to this report and i voted in favour, but i’m convinced that enhanced cooperation must aim for full cooperation, which is the ultimate goal.
madam president, i welcome the report drafted by my colleague barbara spinelli. the task of the eu institutions is indeed not only to avoid violation of the charter but rather to maximize its potential. furthermore, it’s evident that some very important steps of decision making are simply falling outside the scope of the charter. first of all, i’m speaking about the council meetings, where it is believed that it is better for the public not to see how choices are made. i am glad that the ombudsman has recently reported this practice. secondly, i am talking about the so—called trilogues. you cannot find the word ‘trilogue’ in the treaties and, because of their informal character, they are kept out of the public eye. being committed to transparency and respect for fundamental rights, i specifically welcome the call to conduct separate fundamental-rights impact assessments, to be included in all items of legislation as a fundamental-rights review clause.
mr president, this agreement is well balanced. as far as i know, the singapore trade minister has promised to ratify the remaining ilo conventions as soon as possible. but what i find particularly relevant is the monitoring of its application by the eu. while it’s true that singapore ranks very high on transparency international’s corruption perceptions index, paradoxically it also ranks very high on the financial secrecy index. to prevent europeans from using singapore as a bank secrecy paradise, the eu needs to put measures in place and make them applicable to individual member states. recently, a protocol on bilateral avoidance of double taxation between latvia and singapore entered into force to boost cross—border investment. the question remains as to whether enhanced rights for investors are compatible with human and environmental rights and visa transparency standards. the agreement has good potential for the european union, but a lot depends on the eu’s capacity to require its strict application.
drafting of the opinion of the economic and monetary committee. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am very pleased that the european union has stopped being naive and thinking that all investments by third countries only generate profits for their owners and jobs in the european union. and it's good that this screening system is being built. i am also pleased that mr prosta has taken the views of many of the committees involved and has not lost sight of what was created in the committees. and i can also say on behalf of the econ committee that we were fortunate to have established the exclusive economic zone of the member states, which is also the territorial waters, as a place for investment in the european union. and, more importantly, in critical infrastructure investments from third countries, we included the media, because the media is one of the most important elements of democratic societies itself, and, if the media are, by trading through some other eu member states from third countries... actually influencing public opinion and democratic processes in other member states. and i am very pleased, and i very much hope, that member states will also cooperate on such cross-border sections that change the content of investments in third countries. because i really hope that this is the first step -- very successful. let's not be naive. we have in third countries not only the theft of technology but also the desire to influence public opinion.
the rapporteur. the president of the court of justice! commissioner, please! as regards the proposal we are debating today, i must say that the original commission proposal was - and remains - oriented towards opening up the market for passenger transport by bus in europe, also within one member state, to a company from another member state, as it is currently only open to international transport as part of the service. the commission's initial proposal also included the elimination of discrimination, the creation of independent dispute resolution bodies or regulators in each member state, in order to ensure a level playing field for all companies. in the transport committee, we have examined more than 30 compromises and have found a solution which we believe leads to understanding and balances these views. we have partly departed from these good objectives of liberalisation and left it to the member states to allow only a limited number of services over 100 kilometres, allowing member states to justify the public service contract or the public interest and not allowing another participant to enter. we also found a good solution with regard to the independence of the regulatory body, which has to be established in each member state and which also provides for additional safeguards in relation to the case where a member state considers that an entrant creates unfavourable conditions on this market. on access to car parks - whereas initially there was the possibility of denying access to any new entrant in the car park market on the basis of a capacity criterion alone, we created additional criteria as a compromise that could allow the actual restriction of access to car parks, which was also a step against those who did not want to open up this market. finally, we have also created a situation whereby even companies which register in a member state and obtain a licence must, after obtaining that licence, fulfil all the conditions which exist in that member state, including the social conditions which exist in that member state, in order to be able to operate on the passenger transport market. i would like to switch to english now to make some final remarks on political issues. i would like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs, who worked very constructively. as i described, we didn't get 100% of what most of us expected but we got a good balance in the committee on transport and tourism. and i am relying very much on the plenary tomorrow as well. at the same time, i am surprised that some of our colleagues are trying to keep this coach and bus regulation as a hostage for mobility package i, with the aim of changing the mobility package in their own policy direction. in my political experience, it's not good politics to try to succeed on one issue by drawing in unrelated issues. i would remind you that all the social issues for drivers and companies working in road transport are in mobility package i, not in my report. there was nothing in the initial commission proposal and there is nothing now about social conditions. so, while i fully understand the political will here, i would ask all my colleagues to be serious in these final months before the european elections and a new parliamentary term in seeking to finalise this proposal at first reading and to create a good opportunity for discussing it in the future with the council, when the council is ready.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank madam commissioner for her statement and i think it helps very much. whatever we think politically about this issue, i still believe that we have a good mood in the committee on transport and tourism, and everybody who spoke here – and most of you are from the transport committee – is really keeping a good mood in different dossiers, which is very difficult. i think even if we are very close to elections we will not lose our joint aim, which is to create a really pure single market, go step by step, but make transport efficient and environmentally friendly. i think it has united us in the transport committee and will do so in the future as well. of course some of the statements show that liberalisation is like some monster coming from other member states that would like to do bad things to other member states and destroy everything, but it’s really not true and we know that in other modes of transport – like aviation – it’s not the case. why are we speaking today about this new legislation on bus and coach market opening? what is actually the main aim? the main aim is better quality passenger transport for people and the secondary aim is to create social conditions for drivers, which is already regulated and will, in the future, be regulated by mobility package i. this is secondary and business is also secondary. who owns the bus and coach transport market? first and foremost are passengers and their needs in the future. so let’s not lose the main aim tomorrow and – i fully agree with the commissioner – if we reject the commission proposal, as proposed in the first part of the amendment tabled for tomorrow, we will lose an opportunity, and for the council it would be very easy to say ‘look, we don’t need to do anything. let’s leave things in our countries as they have been for years.’ so thank you colleagues and let’s keep the more substantial issues for tomorrow and forget the less substantial. let’s not do everything only for the elections, which are very close.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we condemned any unlawful activities of foreign intelligence services on european soil, including from iran. however, the purpose of this interpellation is not to resolve our disagreements with iran, which are many, but to sabotage the eu efforts to keep engagement with iran alive. this is happening at a time when the eu is doing its utmost to save the nuclear agreement with iran. this agreement serves its purpose of ensuring that iran's nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful. iran delivered on its commitments, as confirmed by 14 reports of the international atomic energy agency. the eu has to deliver its side of the deal by offering iran economic dividends to which it is entitled as part of the agreement. this is why the eu created a special mechanism to facilitate legitimate trade with iran. i fully support that mechanism and hope that it will deliver real results. the purpose of this debate, to the contrary, is to create a negative environment in eu-iran relations and to undermine the efforts at engagement, led by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini. the initiators of this debate attempt to depict iran as the only source of all trouble in the middle east. although we have disagreements with iran on a number of issues, it is unacceptable and unrealistic to blame only iran for all the instability and violence in the region. this debate is about state support of terrorism. no country fits the bill more than saudi arabia. this parliament recognised the saudi-originated wahhabism as a key security threat for europe as far back as in 2013. today we voted on a resolution condemning saudi arabia for human rights violations and also for the troubling role it plays in the region. the commission has just come out with a proposal to include saudi arabia in its blacklist of countries that do not do enough to combat money laundering and terrorism financing. the commission says that saudi arabia represents a high risk for the integrity of europe's financial system. it is absurd to discuss terror threats and not to discuss saudi arabia. we need serious debate on this issue and not propaganda events at the service of ideological obsessions.
rapporteur. – mr president, the title of my report is ‘on the state of eu-russia political relations’. it was not an easy task to produce a report on relations in a situation in which the european union and its associated partners are being attacked by russian state-sponsored actors that creatively use a wide range of hybrid warfare techniques. as a result, a significant part of the report addresses the resilience of the union and its ability to deter hybrid threats. today, five years after the occupation of crimea, we stress that there will be no return to ‘business as usual’ until russia fully restores the territorial integrity of ukraine. we need to reassess the basis of our relations with russia, as it can no longer be considered a strategic partner. the outdated eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement should be reconsidered and any future framework for the eu-russia relationship should be based on the full observance of international law and osce principles. the time for nice diplomatic language is over. unfortunately, there is no place, space or time for major new cooperation initiatives with russia. there is very little room for any cooperation so long as russia continues to occupy parts of ukraine and hybrid attacks on other european countries continue. we should, however, continue selective engagement with russia in areas of vital interest to the union. the global challenges of climate change, energy security, digitalisation, non-proliferation and the fight against terrorism are a few of them. we should stand firm on sanctions, which should be prolonged for as long as russian violations of international law continue. i advocate a clear message to russia regarding the sanctions: ‘more for more, less for less’. as we witness serious deterioration in the human rights situation in russia, the council has to move on with adopting a european magnitsky act, establishing an individual sanctions regime for human rights violations. the key to a more effective eu policy towards russia is coherence between internal and external policies. this applies in full to nord stream 2, a project that reinforces eu dependency on russian gas supplies, threatens the eu internal market and is not in line with either european energy or foreign and security policy. it needs to be stopped. the report’s list of recommendations for interaction with russia is rather limited, but some of them should be mentioned: continued support for people-to-people contacts in general – particularly involving civil society activists and with a focus on young people – and a clear code of conduct concerning airspace used by military and civilian aircraft, in order to reduce the risk of misunderstandings, misinterpretation and misreading of each other’s intentions. there can only be political solutions to the conflict in eastern ukraine and we have to encourage confidence-building measures in the donbas region across the line of contact. the eu has to advance the idea of a un-led peace operation in this region of eastern ukraine. to conclude, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their team spirit and for the constructive work done on this document.
the rapporteur. - the chairman of the board. i would like to thank all the colleagues who took part in the debate on the resolution today. it is with resignation that i note that, compared to the resolution of a similar nature adopted by the european parliament in 2015, the relations between the european union and russia have not improved but have deteriorated, and i see no reason to hope that the kremlin will change its ideology and strategy aimed at destabilising the european union and isolating russia in the foreseeable future. this weekend, there were widespread protests in moscow and voronezh against the kremlin's intention to isolate the russian internet from the rest of the world. this is another sign of how much the putin regime is afraid of information diversity, because it realizes that openness is a threat to the regime's existence. if the collapse of the ussr was, in putin's words, the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century, then the kremlin's chosen course of isolating the russian state and people may lead to the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 21st century. we must therefore abandon the illusion in europe that we can return to the hopeful state of cooperation between the european union and russia that existed after the fall of the iron curtain. unfortunately, that will not happen any time soon, at least not under putin. this is a reality we must accept and shape our policy towards russia accordingly.
madam president, i believe that the solidarity corps has real potential to bring added european value to the social policies. it creates solidarity among young europeans and allows for the personal growth of participants. it is particularly great that, since 2019, organisations from non-eu countries can participate in these projects. in the case of european neighbourhood policy countries, it becomes another element in the chain of contacts and people—to—people diplomacy. in addition to that, volunteering strengthens engagement and makes young people appreciate the non—material side of their work. i supported this report and i wish volunteering could become a part of life for other groups of citizens who want to get engaged in the issues of public interest, dedicating some hours per week to a cause that they really care about.
madam president, the european citizens’ initiative (eci) was created as a tool for sharing power by making citizens active participants in legislation, but it is still inefficient and not a single legislative initiative of the commission was based on an eci. sixty-three per cent of citizens have little or no knowledge of their rights under eu law. at the same time, thousands of lobbyists operate in brussels and dominate in the eu policy process. in this reality, it’s very difficult for eu citizens to make their voices heard and the reform of the eci in a fact need. but, in my opinion, the current reform package makes it even more difficult for citizens to participate, for example, by eliminating individual online collection systems. we are in the 21st century and we need to have quick and easy digital ways to encourage civic engagement. but, of course, in general, i voted in favour.
madam president, i was taken aback by the spirit of hostility the rapporteur managed to impart on this report and it states that eu relations with russia are based on deterrence and isolation. it gives many recommendations on how to limit cooperation with the russian federation and no recommendation on how to resume communication. it also undermines the credibility of the eu message by expressing mere beliefs, condemnations and accusations on the issues which have not even been investigated. concerning the sanctions, the more effective they are at weakening the russian economy, the more they undermine the eu’s bigger objective. first, because a weaker russia would not be a better partner and second, sanctions marginalise pro—western members of the russian elite, meaning that we managed to lose the interlocutors we needed. of course, the real challenge of the eu foreign policy is not russia, as the report states. the real challenge of the group of european politicians, unlike some members of this house who still profess confrontation and an overtly anti-russian agenda with the hope to collect some votes, voted against.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, sometimes a name means a lot. to name a european human rights violations sanctions regime after sergei magnitsky would send an unambiguous message to the human rights abusers in our closest neighbourhood that europe is going to create serious consequences for them and around the world. magnitsky stood up to the corruption of the putin regime. the way in which the russian government tried to cover up his murder and exonerate the people involved became a symbol of impunity worldwide. that is why magnitsky’s name speaks to people everywhere. i believe that the repeated calls of this house to adopt a european magnitsky act mean creating a legal basis for imposing visa sanctions and asset freezes on human rights violators around the world. there should be no impunity for killers of rohingya in myanmar, the rapists in the central african republic or the killers of the saudi journalist. we will once again urge the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to come up with a proposal for an eu magnitsky act before the end of the current parliamentary term. the council has so far failed to act, but now this initiative is gaining momentum.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, kati piri, the rapporteur, for this extremely important work. secondly, i wanted to say that, with the announced withdrawal of us troops from syria, turkey is now becoming even more important for the eu in terms of a solution to the middle east security problem. turkey is a key player that can help in restoring legitimate control by the syrian government over its territory and ending the eight-year-long conflict in syria. eu diplomacy has a big role to play in favouring this peace commitment by supporting the astana process and by recognising the roles of turkey, russia and iran in the region’s stabilisation. we should not forget that it was turkey and russia who brokered a ceasefire in aleppo, preventing a humanitarian disaster. next month, another round of syria talks will be held in turkey, and the eu must use this chance to support the outcome of peace talks. the astana process is strategically crucial to security in europe, especially in terms of preventing foreign fighters committing attacks.
mr president, if there is one recommendation to be repeated over and over again, it is that the east stratcom task force should urgently be turned into a permanent fully fledged structural unit of the european external action service (eeas) and properly supported with adequate financial and personnel resources. secondly, we have to continue support for the work of the european endowment for democracy (eed) aimed at strengthening democratic and independent national language media in the eu neighbourhood and within the eu itself. and thirdly, a recommendation aimed at all political parties in the eu: be transparent about donors, big and small. european voters deserve to know which parties are directly or indirectly funded by the russian intelligence services or global mega companies to make them into mouthpieces for these foreign and not always democratic interests.
mr president, i welcome the efforts to make visa applications and verifications more efficient, as well as the inclusion of long—stay visas and residence permits in the new regulation. however, as a member of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i am concerned about the data processing and the impact it will have on privacy. the connection of the visa information system with other databases, through interoperability architecture, poses a risk of unlawful data transfer and data leaks. yes, by making information on visas more complete we can achieve better risk assessment but, at the same time, we are exposing sensitive data to major risks. i believe that we must first make full use of the visa information system’s potential before we link it to other systems. moreover, no european company is currently able to administer interoperability of information systems. so, shall we delegate this task to a chinese or an indian company? in such a case, i’m afraid our data security would be seriously jeopardised and we would achieve the opposite of what we want.
the respected chairman! ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and express my satisfaction that we have once again been active in tackling politically sensitive issues which have not yet been tackled by the council. i support the reform of the european stability mechanism (esm), which is very important for us if we want to be farsighted and think about the tools to prevent economic crises in good time. of all the member states, only 19 are in the euro area. this makes european monetary and economic cooperation more difficult when there is a threat of economic downturn or other unfavourable macroeconomic factors. a cooperation model should be established in which all member states can adopt rapid and effective solutions for the provision of assistance. the european commission's proposal is a good basis for the development of such a model. the european monetary fund, whatever its name, will be very important in helping countries in difficulty, and it is important that member states have a say in this. it is also important that its functions do not overlap with those of other institutions. however, this is lacking today if we want an efficient and transparent decision-making mechanism. the toolbox of the stability mechanism, including democratic accountability to both the european parliament and the member states, needs to be strengthened. the enlargement of the instrument pool will require a middle ground between solidarity and, of course, responsibility. member states in difficulty will have to assume greater responsibility for themselves, both towards their own citizens and towards other european citizens. i therefore agree that the reform of the european stability mechanism should focus more on supporting member states rather than banks, which are sometimes problematic to hold accountable. we must be open to ourselves and to our people. the debate clearly shows that member states have different views on the future of the esm, but it is a good basis for the reform process to develop the mechanism further.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the morality of human beings is judged on how they treat animals. it is disappointing that, in the european union, we still do not have a mechanism to protect fish welfare in a coherent way throughout all the member states. at the same time, we have good practices that may serve the commission’s efforts in identifying improvements. europe is still a place where numerous compromising aquaculture practices take place – handling, transport, genetic manipulation, predation, stress provocation and inhuman slaughter. at the same time, i believe that eu consumers have the right to be guaranteed that the fish reaching their tables is the product of high-quality aquaculture. i sincerely hope that the commission is going to close the knowledge gaps related to fish welfare, organise a consultation with stakeholders and develop a reliable road map. in the light of developing techniques of fish breeding, regulations adopted in 2005 and 2009 can no longer guarantee a high level of fish welfare, and i join the signatories of this oral question in asking for eu-wide legislative requirements in aquaculture. guaranteeing fish welfare implies certain challenges and requires flexibility. some practices that result in positive welfare for one type of fish may negatively affect other species. that is why we cannot expect to improve welfare for aquaculture species with prescriptive standards. we must apply different criteria to small farmers and to huge aquaculture companies. for example, small producers observe fish better and are much more attentive to signs of stress. negligence towards stress of fish can lead to outbreaks of disease and serious losses. per capita, the yearly consumption of fish in europe is 27 kg, and this predicted to increase. over the past decade, aquaculture has become the fastest-growing food production sector in the world, and we must take that into account.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking both co-rapporteurs and everybody who was involved in this report because steering through the house this important file, with so many amendments, was not easy. money laundering has been, and unfortunately remains, a big problem within countries and across the european union, and the fight against it is still a priority. i think the report has made a good road map of what should be improved. cooperation with financial intelligence units (fius) and also the golden visas issue have already been mentioned, but still there remain some differences which in my opinion could be fixed during the plenary vote this week. first, whereas the report appropriately condemns some banks for money laundering, it is clear that the problem is wider. my relevant amendments which noted the systemic issues of money laundering were voted down in committee and i think we can commit to this issue because it’s not only due to a few bad apples in a given year, or in a particular country or particular bank, but i think we have to understand that there are some kinds of areas in the banking sector which do some kinds of ‘pre-wash’, and some ‘main washes’ follow in other places in the european union, unfortunately. second, the report suggests that the eu should speak with one voice in the financial action task force (fatf). however, it is not acknowledged that there are so many eu member states which are not even members of fatf but they are still in, i would say, the lower league on the money wall with very different countries which are not members of the european union.
in writing. a survey by the european commission showed a clear public opinion - 84% of europeans believe that the winter and summer time should be avoided by choosing one. i couldn't agree more. i think it's time to stop changing the regular clocks. the reasons why europe started the regular time change are no longer tenable in the 21st century. although we would like to stop changing the clocks this year, as initially proposed by the european commission, it is understandable that the transport sector, for example, needs time to prepare for this change, so i support the abandonment of the change of time from 2021. it is important for latvia that the end of the time change takes place in a harmonised way and that we remain in the same time zone as our neighbours - estonia, finland and lithuania. but if anyone is worried that we'll be in the same time as moscow, i'll tell you right now that's not possible.
madam president, i will speak about the imbalance in migration processes within the eu. the european union ensures freedom of movement for the labour force, but the structure and direction of this movement at the present moment are unfavourable for the majority of new member states because the poorest eu countries are losing well—educated people, who are leaving for developed eu countries. this process promotes the degradation of the social structure and undermines economic cohesion. in the next legislative period, we must elaborate a system of direct eu financial support for several categories of highly skilled professionals in new member states in order to motivate them to continue working at home. a compensatory mechanism may be applied up to the moment when the difference in salaries between the so—called ‘old’ and ‘new’ member states becomes less pronounced and stops pushing people to leave their homes. i am speaking above all about doctors and other medical personnel. let’s come back to this idea after the elections.
madam president, i am very concerned about the state of diplomatic relations, since the world and diplomacy in its classical sense is dying. increasingly, refusal to negotiate and maintain contact with those with whom one has disagreements is being practised – it’s presented as a brilliant diplomatic move. even during the cold war there were many diplomatic channels through which it was possible to clarify the situation, find acceptable solutions and, most importantly, avoid an armed conflict that could flare up even by misunderstanding. now, some have begun to put an ‘equals’ sign between the act of negotiating and agreeing with the position of the other side. in diplomacy, conducting a dialogue does not mean that you agree with the position of the partners in the negotiations. it is a way to hear and to be heard. diplomacy is not about being proud and sitting in a corner and accepting a huge amount of aggressive and useless reports. it’s necessary to return to diplomacy as an instrument for resolving problems in relations between countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. well, colleagues, i congratulate you warmly! today we voted to censor the internet, and let's put the words to what happened here. i do not understand why mr voss was applauded by the majority of members who were happy that the directive had been adopted in its present form and with its present meaning. i was the one who supported evelyn regner's motion to reopen the directive to amendments, and i certainly voted against it as a first reading, but well... i congratulate you on the fact that today we are taking a step towards the ussr and north korea. and don't lie to me, the authors won't get anything because the copyright will be owned by big corporations. i once had a show on latvian tv called "without censorship". i was joking because i thought: "there will never be any more censorship in the european union". there it is! and we in eastern europe, the citizens of the former soviet union, we feel it with our skin, compared to western europe. and i don't know how we can fix this. - thank you. censorship will exist in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank president tajani. he saved the image of the european parliament last night with his decision, because you cannot legislate in the manner that was proposed until yesterday night. the european parliament would be seen in that case as a subsidiary of qualified majority of the council, or even as a subsidiary of the commission. politics also means compromise, always, and trump did it a year ago, as we remember. since the plenary voted against this compromise i think we lost any opportunity in this parliament to get a real compromise, a professional and responsible compromise. and not only until next week, but also until the end of this legislature. how does our house look in the context of the mobility package i? the responsible committee cannot submit a report on two of the three dossiers. the groups, with some exceptions, are so divided that even the biggest political group doesn’t have any coherent group-wide position and so abstains from anything in relation to this package. even if we continue next month in the same manner, merely outvoting proposals by one or two votes as on monday in other parts of this house, then what does it mean for citizens in the run-up to the elections? they will think that politicians can sacrifice the single market in road transport for the purposes of using protectionism to meet some national and thus as a way to be re-elected, and we don’t want to see it.
mr president, kosovo was excluded from the european visa liberalisation map from the last decade, while other western balkan countries could benefit from this privilege. we can all think of kosovoʼs history in a different way, but we cannot afford to make this country a geopolitical hostage of our disagreements. among the neighbouring countries, kosovo, more than most, needed a visa-free regime from the beginning of the process at the thessaloniki council. all four commission reports demonstrated kosovoʼs rapid progress and its readiness to be a part of the club. we expected kosovo to fulfil its 95 benchmarks and it did so. so by what legitimate criteria can we deprive our partners of this right? if the eu aims to promote the principle of justice and openness with kosovo, why don’t we deliver on our promises? 84% of kosovars are in favour of eu membership, and in my opinion, we must consider kosovo as a future member as of now. it is unacceptable for us to undermine the regional role of the most pro-eu country in the western balkans. one day our children will share their eu citizenship with kosovars, and i really wish that we could minimise this experience of unfair treatment of kosovo and the feeling of injustice, especially since the west already has a lot to apologise for to kosovo. on a separate note, i would like to praise the effort and perseverance of our colleague tanja fajon in this important matter. thank you very much.
madam president, in order to improve the daily life of eu citizens we need a strong commitment in terms of cohesion policy. in latvia we still have regions that experience a persistent lack of growth and massive emigration of young people. this is also valid for some urban areas. unfortunately, world globalisation means that regions that are lagging stay even more behind the times. therefore, in the eu, we need regional policies to support economic growth and employment. like latvia, many eu member states would not be able to introduce modernisation results without these two eu funds that will make up 25% of the next mff budget. i am proud that with this legislature, we managed to guarantee support for concrete sectors, such as the creation of new jobs in small and medium enterprises, digital connectivity, natural heritage, zero emission urban mobility, sustainable tourism and others. of course i voted in favour, as i’m convinced that with this regulation we can bring europe closer to the citizens.
madam president, erasmus + is a life-changing initiative and it can certainly be called an eu success. but this is a success only for 3.7% of young europeans who benefit from erasmus. i ask myself, what is your proposal for the remaining 96.3%? erasmus was never thought to be an elitist project, but it turned out that people from lower socio-economic backgrounds are often left outside. this has also been the case of latvia, so i wish that erasmus + becomes more democratic and easily accessible. we need to diversify the profiles of applicants, we need to reduce the bureaucracy and we need to carefully observe how professional excellence is generated. i support the rapporteur zver in his call to triple erasmus funding, compared with the commission proposal to double it. i’m following the process closely and i hope the delay in negotiations will not jeopardise the result.
mr president, i’m surprised that some tried to justify the practice of child benefits indexation, which constitutes a breach of the treaties. to understand how absurd it seems to the majority of this house, it’s enough to say that more than 40 amendments on indexation were tabled to the new regulation on the coordination of social security systems and, even with the support of three shadow rapporteurs – sven schulze, helga stevens and marian harkin – none of them got through. mobile workers are entitled to the same child allowances as local workers. the principle of free movement implies that paying social contributions gives the right to equal benefits, whatever the nationality of the worker. this has just been stated by the honourable commissioner and this has been confirmed by the eu court of justice. but since we still need further arguments, let me give you some. the disrespect for equality in cross-border transfer of child allowances is one of the reasons that brought about brexit. how can we afford to let the austrian welfare system get out of the equality balance with other member states? moreover, child benefits is only one element of social allowances, together with unemployment, sickness benefits, family benefits – indexation means violation of reciprocity among member states in all these aspects. i urge the member states to approve tomorrow in the council the deal they reached last week.
mr president … (the speaker spoke chinese) … which in english means that the eu and china should be friends, should have cooperation. with the recent signing by italy of the one belt, one road initiative, we’ve now got 11 eu member states who have formal business relations with china outside the eu trade framework. the one belt and road initiative is china’s reaction to the bretton woods system and in their quest for a historical relaunch chinese are now winning strategic structures in the eu, but sincerely we cannot blame china for promoting its economic interests if we do not even have a truly european trade strategy towards it. instead, we call it an economic competitor and a systemic rival, giving away our playing cards into the hands of trump. as a result, eu countries will pay the bill of trade wars between china and the united states. paradoxically, in order to resist the chinese economic offensive on the eu, we must ease the tariff tensions we have with the united states of america. in the meantime, we also need to build a solid strategy towards china, especially in relations to subsidies and, of course, technology transfers.
mr president, recently it has become fashionable to fight so-called ‘social dumping’ and all legislation relating to posted workers in various fields is subject to revision. it establishes requirements and imposes restrictions that supposedly protect workers from eastern europe. however, protectionism is often hidden behind this. unfortunately, the main advantage of workers from eastern europe is that they work for a lower wage than workers in western countries. temporary work in another eu country for these people is an opportunity to earn money for their families. introducing restrictions supposedly for their protection means a significant amount of them will no longer be invited to work in a rich country. this means that they will have to stay in their country and they will receive much less pay for the same jobs than their colleagues from western countries. we don’t need protectionism disguised as social protection. we need a real, common, eu social policy.
mr president, the report on work—life balance was a long—term project for all of us involved. i’m not only talking about the period of time which was needed to reach the agreement, but the enormous intensity in all the negotiation process. to conclude this process, which took several years overall, i would like to mention that the final deal improves the current framework of paternity, parental and carer’s leave. however, it is far from the original ambitious mandate of the european parliament. me and my colleagues would want to see this directive more family— and people—oriented. nevertheless, as a citizen and a father, i’m glad that finally, in eu documents, paternity leave with a duration of 10 days will be officially introduced. however, the payment at sick—pay level is certainly not enough. i also consider the introduction of a new kind of leave – carer’s leave – as one of the visible achievements of the european parliament in the social sphere during this legislative period.
mr president, i just wanted to make a remark that we voted for longer on the mato report than on the mobility package.
mr president, on the questions concerning transport and tourism i am pragmatic and i want to be sure that the legislation we adopt here will be to the benefit of all eu countries, including my country, latvia. this report on posting drivers and the other two files we voted on today were supposed to be a package that respects both social and market aspects of road transport. however, i regret to see more market and less social components of the road transport sector. it is true that we need to prevent illicit practices and lower the administive burden, and it is also true that every piece of legislation we pass in this house must be socially fair, but the principle of equal pay for equal work in application to cabotage operations raises serious issues of social fairness for me. the same remuneration rules would apply to a truck driver who delivers goods to another member states after a cross-border delivery as to drivers in the host country. that is why i voted against.
mr president, i agree that the working conditions of drivers must be improved. and if you create new rules they must be beneficial to all the eu member states, not just the western countries. this report brings us to a very delicate situation where drivers from eastern european countries would have difficulty in maintaining their jobs. i am against social dumping and i regret that the report is designed to penalise this huge group of people. the destiny of three million workers is at stake and as a democrat i call for respecting the freedom of services and labour movement and i’m sure that there is a way to guarantee decent work and rest conditions for drivers without undermining the rules of the single market. in addition, it would be irresponsible of me to cut out of the labour market eastern european drivers and leave them without protection. therefore, i voted against.
mr president, i couldn’t agree with the way this directive was conceptualised. in my opinion, any set of rules on energy must be comprehensive and not designed in favour of, or against, any particular project. i’m absolutely sure that you understand that now i’m speaking about the nord stream 2 gas pipeline from russia to germany. these pipelines, leading from or to the eu, are a part of our energy security infrastructure, and they also represent the variable integration patterns that allows neighbouring countries and other energy partners to become part of our energy architecture. i’m afraid that this directive has some provisions that are detrimental to competition in the relevant markets. dominant actors and small actors should play by the same rules, but we should respect the rights of european energy consumers and avoid making them the victims of anti-russian rhetoric. i voted against.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to stress the importance of the regulation we just adopted today. i say ‘vital’ importance because it serves in preventing terror attacks being carried out with the use of homemade bombs, and hundreds of lives of our citizens, compatriots, our europeans would have been spared over the last five years if we had had stronger restrictions on explosive precursors. it was a difficult but urgent task to regulate the online sales of precursors, but we did it, and the proof for that is 100% approval of the document in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) vote, which is a manifestation of general support for this result. again and again, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their spirit of good cooperation and their support in trilogue negotiations and all the colleagues for their cooperation.
mr president, breaches of union law are one of the elements that anti-europeanists use to fuel people’s frustration with the institutions. numerous right-wing politicians have tried to capitalise on the fact that union law is not perfectly designed, but no law is exempt from weaknesses. we must give our citizens major freedom and protection while reporting such weaknesses. if we want people in the eu to be more engaged and participative in european politics, we must give them the instruments. so it’s us, the partisans of a strong and integrated europe, who must take the lead in this fight. maladministration can manifest itself in multiple forums, starting from word—based relations, in the management of eu funds. in every possible case the reporting person must be covered by guarantees. that is why, colleagues, i voted in favour.
mr president, i welcome this directive establishing minimum rights that apply to every worker in the union and i am glad to see that it contains a very detailed list of criteria that governs the relations between the employer and the employee. high working standards is one of the flagship achievements of the eu, but in some cases it can also become a factor of discrimination that creates first class and second class workers, which is unacceptable, by the way. our citizens need greater predictability in employment contracts and we must finally stops the shameful practice of unlimited probationary periods. in addition to that, the european parliament has taken a good step recently in abolishing unpaid traineeships but it’s the turn of the private sector to become fair and good.
mr president, the european labour authority is a long—awaited measure that we need to complete our social pillar. we must guarantee the freedom of movement of workers and their equal rights across the whole european union. however, it is not acceptable that this european labour authority acts as a simple information point. currently, it’s designed to provide information sources and services on labour mobility, but it’s still unable to help our citizens resolve their problems related to work. in my opinion, the european labour authority must be able to enforce the measures to guarantee social cohesion and make sure that no unemployment arises from the new legislation at eu level. i am speaking particularly about the central and eastern european countries that still have inadequate social protection systems in case of unemployment. it must be one of the tasks of this new authority to implement the social pillar and to guarantee that the new, high working standards do not lead to the first closure of enterprises and, as a result, the loss of jobs.
madam president, the increase in labour mobility means that the social rights need to be protected better. however, the freedom of movement of workers is currently challenged by a blocking minority in the council. but colleagues, we are speaking about the things that are most important for the total majority of our workers, their social entitlements. in many cases, allowances determine how the citizens perceive the quality of their citizenship and as a result, how they appreciate the functioning of the eu. it is regretful that the council does not give that much importance to social benefits. the indexation actively promoted by some countries is the road to the disaggregation of the eu. it puts our social systems in competition and favours the outflow of young workers from the new member states. it’s true that in the current framework, the member states are free to decide on the conditions for benefits and insurance, but these decisions must be made in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
for the ecr group mr president! mr president of the commission! prime minister! it is a pleasure to see you here and thank you for your energetic and very meaningful speech as a great linguist, politician and also a good colleague with whom we have worked both in latvian politics and here in the european parliament, hand in hand on many issues. and i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the great ladies who are on krishna kari's team. you see those first rows around him. i think we can be very proud of our diplomatic corps in latvia. and thank you for your work! i do not regret a single day of joining the european union or the eurozone, but at the same time i can say that i have regretted it many, many times and i cannot boast of or agree with the european union's policies that are being implemented here, or even its image and face, if i may say so. and i'll talk about that in my next talk. i am really and glad that your speech didn't include such a simple approach. everything is all right here in the european union, and so let us peacefully evaluate our achievements and let us make an ever-closer union. i'm very grateful that you did it more in detail and with more analytical suggestions. the european conservatives and reformists group (ecr) is always a political family which supports a pure, real single market in any sector of the economy. i think we have here some doubts, which partly you shared already. you said you're not very happy with european champions, which should be created. i trust you, but national champions are european union champions, so we can see a bit of disagreement with your spitzenkandidat mr manfred weber, who some time ago said in the media that you would agree to change some rules on state aid and competition in the eu to allow the creation of such champions, which i think is the wrong message to the economy, because also the message europe which protects sounds good but to protect from whom? from the outside world? okay, for a short-term it works, but in the longer run, it's a wrong way. even more dangerous, i think, is protection inside the single market, and here i can give an example, which you partly already said on the basis of the us, with zero barriers between states in the us, if you would like to see a similar situation in the european union. we recently approved mobility package i with a very controversial procedure, i would say. after this vote, it's clear that it was the latvian government, the lithuanian, polish governments, the romanians, the hungarians: many countries were against it in council, and meps from different political families from those countries were against it. then it's a question if it's bad for those countries and it's good for europe, where is europe? this, i think, is a bad signal. if you can imagine the us doing the same mobility package i approach in the road freight market in the us, for example, to return an empty truck from new york to wyoming, i think it would be a disaster, and i'm not even talking about the things for the budget. we are fighting here for around 1% of gdp, and we will fight after the new parliament as well. but, at the same time, we forget that the us federal budget is over 20% of gdp, and that's why people also living in the same wyoming. i think we have to think about these things if we really would like to create some more kind of a federalist approach not the ecr, but other groups, you have to remember this. i fully agree with the aml function, which is the tax arrears report also here evaluated latvian achievement on definition in the legislation about shell companies, which are very big points in anti-money-laundering issues, and at the same time there was not named in the tax3 report about latvia, but there was named some country which is not very far from here, and its between brussels and strasbourg. i would also like to say that it's good that you touch a point on r&d. of course, research and development innovations are very important as well, and it's good that it's growing. you rightly said "but" "but how it is distributed" and it's a very important point, not only what you named but also from a demographic point of view. it means if we will continue or even with a widening programme the horizon programme which is a good programme, but its still not working enough. so we'll expect that the demographic situation in the european union will be even more divided if we continue like this, because the best researchers, the best brains and the best young people should go to those centres, to those countries in the eu member states, and it means that peripheral countries will have a lot of demographic problems. some countries will solve in the medium term the demographic situation in the country and also achievement in economy, but disparities in the european union will be even greater than they are now. i just made a few points which partly agree with you and partly, i just like to continue on this problem. in general i think in the new parliament we can have a good, reasonable political family cooperation between different groups on a pure, real, single market, keep as a core principle in the european union in the future.
mr president, initially i was going to speak about brain drain as we – our country, latvia, and other new eu members – are losing our young specialists, and what we can do at the eu level to stop this process. but i must react to one part of the speech from our prime minister. why? because he asked parliament and the european union to follow the good example of integration in latvia. i must say to you that it is not a story of success. it is a shameful story of the destruction of minority education. after the restoration of independence, the majority of minorities were supporting independence and the development of an independent country, but now we are living in depression because children from minority families will not have the possibility to receive education in their mother tongue. please, colleagues, do not follow this example.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. colleagues, mr prime minister! the european parliament has been shown on several occasions today to be a veritable scavenger. and your example is really exciting and compelling. you and i have some things in common, you were the head of the office of corruption prevention and control, and you worked as a reference in money laundering matters. we know what dirty money is and what it does. it's not just coming from crime, it's also being used to facilitate crime, to finance terrorism, to smuggle people, even to bribe corrupt officials. and if i were given the opportunity, in the next parliament, i would urge my colleagues and the whole of society to take effective action against both money laundering, continuing what you have started, and corruption. thank you.
mr president, i’m very proud of our prime minister. prime minister, your speech was a brilliant programme for the future of europe. you didn’t avoid even painful issues. thank you very much for it. es esmu lepna arī par to, ka tev izdevās izveidot latvijā valdību, ka tā saucamajiem jaunajiem spēkiem tas neizdevās, bet vecie pieredzējušie premjera kandidāti vienkārši nobijās no šī grūtā uzdevuma, un tev tas izdevās. bet latvijas valdībai stāv priekšā ļoti grūti uzdevumi. samazināta eiropas budžeta apstākļos kohēzijas politika, reģionālā politika — tas viss ir tas, par ko būs ļoti jācīnās. politika lauksaimniekiem. mums tiešmaksājumi joprojām ir daudzreiz mazāki nekā citās valstīs, un tu to jau minēji. sabiedrības integrācija. mēs šodien jau dzirdējām šeit, šajā zālē, kā padomju savienības rusifikācijas politikas turpinājums, ar ko mēs cīnāmies jau daudzus gadu desmitus, tiek vienkārši uzdots par minoritāšu problēmu latvijā. latvija ir vienīgā valsts, kur pagaidām vēl notiek mācības pilnā apjomā — nez kāpēc — trešās valsts valodā un valsts valoda tiek diskriminēta. and finally, protection of the external borders. it’s a tough task for latvia as well, but safe europe is in all our interests. thank you very much and good luck to you.
thank you, mr president. prime minister! well, that's a hot one. you also showed everyone here your mobile phone and told a story about a father and his three sons, but the room is still empty without help. you thanked europe for its diversity. but do i remind you of what you called your colleagues sitting here - just for signing a letter to the latvian government asking to preserve education in minority languages in state secondary schools - as fools? thank you, mr. crown! i am one of the fools and so are the dozens of social democrats who signed this letter. you spoke about your report with your colleague sargentini. that's good news. i mean it. we have to fight dirty money, but why didn't you report on the affair your wife was involved in, the sale of real estate offshore, with money of unknown origin. you said you misled the press. that's what happens to the press. but is that a good example? if you want to change europe, you must start with yourself. give up your american citizenship, you're a european! thank you.
chairman! as a representative of latvia, i voted in favour of the resolution on combating disinformation, because europe as a whole, and in particular the countries that form europe's external borders, must fight disinformation and interference by third countries in democratic processes in a continuous and coordinated way. the commission has also received comments from latvia, which has not yet submitted its comments on the draft legislative act. and i also want to emphasize from my experience the need to work in complexity. while it is important to combat disinformation, it is even more important to work on prevention by strengthening areas of importance to democracy, and not just during election years. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. but it is also particularly important to support commercial media, and in particular local and regional media. it is also important to consider other reliable sources of information. today, literally parallel to our session, there is a conference in the house of norway, which brings together encyclopedias from several countries, and the idea that we need to review the role of the encyclopedia in the maintenance of european democracy and provide expertise [..] (the chairman forbids the speaker to continue) was very much in the air at this conference.
mr president, at the house of european history the exposition starts with introducing visitors to the myth about the abduction and seduction of europe by a white bull. i am afraid that today’s europe, and to be more precise, the european union, is facing a very similar attempt, only this time, instead of the charming god, we are under siege of internet trolls which, thanks to modern technology, do not even need to cross physical borders. these intruders are undermining our democratic processes and compromising our values. the response to that must be seen as our joint fight for our common future. in my country, lithuania, journalists and civil society were the first ones, and the most efficient ones, to expose russian disinformation and to increase our societies’ resilience. last month we passed a resolution on foreign electoral interference and disinformation in our democracies. colleagues, it’s time to act and implement approaches listed in this resolution.
mr. president, please! the more connected we are online, the more likely we are to become victims of those who steal data, make propaganda, control people and systems, destroy infrastructure or even manipulate election results in cyberspace. the number of cybercrimes is potentially increasing, and the targets of 21st century warriors are not only governments, multinational organizations like nato, economies and infrastructure, but also helpless individuals. but the attackers are not usually lone wolves. in a cyber war that has become a global phenomenon, tanks and soldiers are being replaced by servers and computer experts. in a digital environment, a single computer virus can wreak more havoc than a conventional military strike. the fact is that the russian regime is waging a cyber war against the european union, which it recognizes as a natural enemy precisely because of our values and supposedly our decadent way of life. the russians have been proven to have interfered in the brexit campaign and the european elections. putin's efforts to influence the outcome of the us election have been well documented, as evidenced by the fbi investigation. but i'm not worried about the united states, because they detected these threats in time and established immunity. i'm more worried about europe. i think we're falling short of the security and protection of our democratic processes and institutions. counterintelligence threats are increasing in both scale and complexity. but i am glad that the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, is aware of the problem. today, she said that a new cybersecurity agency would ensure a coordinated european response. i'd prefer the word "united", but that's a step forward, too.
dear mr president and mrs. yuroff! if we want to combat the flood of misinformation and this manipulation, we don't just have to pass laws here. we need digital technologies that will stun and neutralize the anti-democratic forces in russia, china and elsewhere, so that they simply cannot be allowed to undermine our values. one example is the so-called deepfakes, where artificial intelligence is used to spread misleading video and audio about a person. in malicious hands, they can seriously jeopardise the ability of voters to make any informed and independent choice. we can only combat this with smarter technologies that would allow us to identify and catch and warn citizens about such massive lies, but this requires timely investment in artificial intelligence technologies and this needs to be considered in programmes such as the europe of defence, the digital europe and the european defence fund. finally, the fight against lies does not relieve us of our responsibility to help the truth, namely, the honest and honest media.
chairman! i hope that daphne's killer will be punished as he deserves, and i hope that malta will ensure that there is an independent investigation and trial so that those responsible for the crimes uncovered by journalism are held to account. the murder of maltese journalists makes us think and act to improve the legal framework, strengthen support for the media, so that journalists in europe can do their work safely and independently. the european commission must come up with proposals not only to prevent money laundering and corruption, but also to prevent strategic prosecutions against journalists. we also need to provide legal support to journalists who suffer physical attacks, unfounded prosecutions and investigations, smear campaigns and online harassment because of their professional activities, and unfortunately malta is not the only case in this regard. the physical safety of journalists in europe must be taken for granted, but it is equally important to achieve the social security of journalists. measures to support quality journalism and media should therefore be strengthened.
