madam president, when we refer to what happened last week where those who had been suffering for almost three weeks, namely 49 people, including five children, were left on board these two boats, their case was finally resolved. however it was resolved as if it had been dealt with on a crisis basis, with phone calls going on between one prime minister and another. commissioner avramopoulos, i think, expressed the best european sentiment when he told us: this is not what the european union should represent. because in truth what we want is a sustainable mechanism that is based on our value of solidarity, not on a case-by-case basis. and i add other comments here also because we have seen a situation where you have also tactics of heavy pressure from big countries on smaller countries, tactics of bullying, and we cannot tolerate that. i cannot stress too much how crucial it is to address the issue of having a clear return policy for those who have no right to be in our country. but i cannot help but close, madam president, by thanking commissioner avramopoulos for his comments on malta. he said that he would come back, not for the first time, and that he would be welcome back in our country.
in writing. the council seems to be giving the impression that the migration crisis is fading away. absolutely not the case. funds are mentioned but funds alone will not solve any problems unless they are accompanied by strong policies that really make a difference. as long as we remain in a situation where one member is throwing the burden on the other we will not solve anything. this is not supposed to be a problem of the 'frontline member states' as the council calls them but a problem of the european union as a whole. what hypocrisy! a continent of more than 500 million people demands that one country, with less than 500 000 people, has to resort time and again to ad hoc solidarity measures because there are a number of member states for whom solidarity means nothing. to those who are trying to point the finger at malta i say check things out. i say to those who have the responsibility for reaching an agreement that european citizens expect nothing less.
in writing. – it pains me to see that 49 migrants were stranded at sea for days waiting for the member states to take responsibility and show solidarity in this heart—breaking situation. it pains me to see the ineptness and rigidness of the current eu rules, when all we have been fighting for in the last few years was a european solution to the migration crisis. it pains me to see that people’s lives were endangered because the italian government refused to comply with their international and european obligations. but it hurts much worse to see people deceivingly attacking my country, when malta has done more than most eu countries have done in the last 10 years. when, malta has taken in, per capita, more than any other eu country. and when malta has successfully helped to conclude the ad hoc agreement for the quick and safe relocation of the 49 migrants. we cannot expect that every time salvini decides to blackmail the european union and the member states, then malta will take the burden and the responsibility for the whole of the eu. but please, do not let people suffer any longer and provide us with a sustainable european solution to share the responsibility among all member states.
mr president, europe has several measures to support its economy and its workers. while such measures, such as the european social fund, are strategic in nature and planned for the long term, others such as the european global fund work differently. the role of the european global fund is different and at the same time essential as it is a fund that is effective in being used in reactive cases, in unforeseeable circumstances, rather than in planned circumstances. it is designed to be used in cases where workers become unemployed and out of work as a consequence of financial or economic crises. and i have seen the implementation and use of this fund and i do not agree at all with the speaker before me that this fund does not make sense, because i have seen it used in malta and i have seen how many workers who have become unemployed have been helped through training, through new jobs, assistance in the start-up of new companies and guidelines for various careers. an important point is that we are revising the thresholds of unemployed workers who are eligible for this fund from 500 to 250. this should become the norm and not the exception. i believe this is an important step to reflect the diversity and size of companies across europe especially countries that are small like malta. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her useful work.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i agree that the european union should be a social union where we take concrete action on social issues. we need to have solutions at european level to our social challenges, and the european social fund naturally contributes to this. but i think it needs to be strengthened. our positions and proposals must always be centred on the needs of our societies, especially when these same positions and proposals affect the jobs and careers of european citizens. the new european social fund will invest in european citizens and aim to help people find work, give support to employers and promote sound investment in education. this fund helps europe to become more competitive without losing sight of its social conscience. the new european social fund is intended to build on our existing successes and strengthen them by bringing four funds under one umbrella and thus improving the efficiency and synergy of the programmes of all these funds. and so i think that with this social cohesion we are continuing to improve social justice, we are becoming more competitive and we are doing this by coming together as much as possible in the social field as we did to actually reach this agreement on this report before us.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you once more for giving me the floor this evening. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr arimont, and the shadow rapporteurs for the quality of this report and for your ongoing support for european territorial cooperation (etc), also known as interreg. the commission also wishes to praise the committee on regional development (regi) for having worked swiftly. with the tight schedule ahead of us, it is indeed paramount to be ready and steady when the next programming period starts. the commission is confident that the council will do its utmost to maintain the momentum on this important file, enabling the launch of negotiations soon. this is all the more important as european territorial cooperation embodies the very essence of our european project: getting together beyond boundaries to address common challenges. allow me to highlight some of the key novelties of our proposals. the aim is to revisit the interreg architecture of programmes so as to reduce overlaps and fragmentation, thereby increasing the impact on the territories targeted by the programmes. here the proposal underlines the importance of functional areas such as sea basins. at the same time, the proposal provides means to preserve cross—border or bilateral cooperation, notably in the maritime sector. the aim of the proposal is also to reinforce the strategic dimension of the future programmes by linking them more strongly with existing strategic framework policy initiatives and finally, to radically simplify the whole framework in order to dedicate fewer resources to administrative and control tasks and focus much more on results and real impact. the commission appreciates that you recognise this important effort to simplify and calls upon you to work together to maintain these simplification measures.finally, in interreg programmes the cross-border cooperation will focus more than before on institutional cooperation, resolving border issues and investing in joint services of public interest. overall, by mainstreaming and simplifying european territorial cooperation, we can strengthen it and take it to another level.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, mr commissioner, the financial instruments mentioned in this report are very important for regional development, culture and educational progress in the european union. they are crucial if we are to aim for a european union in which citizens feel part of it and which offers equal opportunities to all citizens, wherever they come from. my proposals in the cult committee insist that culture and education are important if we are to eliminate regional boundaries. we must therefore ensure sufficient funds for this purpose. while acknowledging the good work done by the rapporteur, where regional policy is concerned, we must also attach importance to research and education as these help to boost competitiveness and innovation and to promote sound economic growth in all the regions of the union. the message we want to send is that in the union everyone is treated equally, regardless of the region from which they come. we are a european union without land or sea borders, of different cultures and languages and rich in opportunities.
in writing. – the examination of how the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary and elsewhere in the european union are being respected needs to follow a transparent and objective method that is fair, is seen to be fair and not based on partisan polemics. i have already stated before that i am deeply sceptical as to whether this is happening in this parliament, though many members here clarioned their devotion to democracy. without reference to hungary, i deplore the ways by which members of the parliament are manoeuvering to make malta also subject to rule of law strictures. in this, they show a flagrant disregard for facts plus a willingness to underwrite comments and analyses that are politically skewed. they collaborate openly with anti-government forces in malta while sharing in their hidden agendas. it is legitimate for the eu to ensure that the rule of law and fundamental rights are strictly observed. if, however, such assurance is sought on the basis of some ‘method’ or ‘model’ similar to the one being attempted for malta by members of this parliament, then the process is one that will shame and tarnish the eu’s proclaimed attachment to democracy, and indeed to the rule of law.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, let me start straight away by thanking jytte guteland for the work she carried out on this report. as you mentioned, jytte can’t be with us this morning, but i would like to acknowledge the great work she did, together with all her colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs, precisely on this matter. colleagues, i am one of those who strongly believes that today's intensive pesticide use around europe is no longer sustainable. the unsustainable use of pesticides poses a challenge not only to our environment, but also to people's health, and it can have a serious impact on both the farmers who use such products and the general public who can come into contact with hazardous chemicals found in pesticides in public areas such as parks and also school-yards. now the sustainable use of pesticides directive provides for a range of actions that can help europe achieve a sustainable use of pesticides. but it is amply clear that member states are not implementing this legislation in the proper manner. instead, we are seeing a situation where the use of pesticides in europe has been steadily increasing, since the 1990s. and funnily enough, despite awareness around the sustainability of agriculture and despite the development of pesticides that can be used at low doses, on average, we are seeing the use of pesticides has not decreased at all in recent years. whilst some progress was registered vis-à-vis checks on spraying equipment and in developing training courses and certification schemes on how to best spray pesticides, little progress has been made in promoting the uptake of alternative techniques. moreover, there is a lack of clear and quantifiable targets in the different member states’ national action plans and most of these plans do not specify as yet how the targets or objectives are to be achieved. we strongly feel that progress is also lacking in the field of integrated pest management. now, we need member states to take this seriously, because european citizens are getting increasingly concerned and want dependency on pesticides to decrease. europe's farmers have every right to be able to use substances and techniques that do not put their own health at risk and that do not impact negatively on the environment and their farmland. we need incentives that can change things, incentives that can help farmers reduce the amount of pesticides they use and switch to more sustainable non-chemical options. for the s&d group it is a priority that the european union and all its member states increase their efforts to help the sustainable use of pesticides. we need to continue working tirelessly to create non-toxic environments where we ensure that human health and ecosystems are fully protected against the impact of today's wide use of pesticides. we have the tools. now we need to make sure that member states deliver, so that farmers, consumers, citizens and the environment, can all benefit from the existing sustainable alternative methods. a better implementation of the sustainable use of pesticides directive is key in ensuring that this change actually happens. finally, i know that there was very good cooperation between the responsible shadow rapporteurs, and on behalf of jytte, i would like to thank all the colleagues from the different political groups for their constructive approach and valuable support for jytte’s work. later on today, we as parliamentarians have the opportunity to send a clear and important signal to all the member states, that we stand together with all citizens across the european union and expect our countries to ramp up their actions and contribute concretely to a more sustainable use of pesticides around europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, once again i listened carefully to the honourable members and i heard a lot of reasonable approaches. the main thing, as we all know, is that we need to strengthen our efforts in the sustainable use of pesticides and in the improvement of the directive. let me react to some specific points. i fully agree with karl-heinz florenz when he raises questions about training. especially now, as we see a lot of new agro—techniques, we need to encourage member states to pay more attention to training needs when farmers are using new techniques and facing new issues with pesticides. regarding derogations, derogation should mean derogation, and should not be the rule. the commission is looking at this very carefully and we are now introducing strong measures, asking member states for justifications and asking them to see what they can do and how we can regulate. as you know, we have permanent conversations with some member states about derogations. but, of course, derogation is enshrined in law, so we need to pay greater attention to that. some speakers mentioned the possibility of promoting more low—risk pesticides. as you know, we now have to hand a lot of improvements, and rules and procedures allowing the quickest possible authorisation of low-risk pesticides. some speakers mentioned once again the role of organic farming and the message that organic farming is farming without chemicals. no: we know very well that in organic farming too people use certain chemicals. copper sulphate is a very difficult question. you know that the carcinogenicity of copper sulphate is a big challenge and we need to address those issues. so do not mislead people. we know very well that different types of farming are using different methods, including chemicals. so do not simply create confrontation between conventional farming and organic farming. once again, please tell the truth to society. from a regulatory point of view, we know what that is. we know who is who, and how different tools are used in different types of farming. mr andrieu rightly mentioned the bee guidance document. we did not achieve a qualified majority on this at standing committee level because member states are not capable of voting in favour. it’s now up to parliament and the council to conclude the so—called first reading on the comitology rules. we have proposed introducing transparency in risk management, changing the situation, with regard to the comitology rules, so as to have data publicly available to vote on. however, two years for the first-reading stage is not progress! may i encourage you once again to draw attention to this, because i am very happy that yesterday we concluded the general food law trilogue. i would like to thank ms ayuso for doing a very difficult job. we now have more transparency in the assessment of pesticides, and this is a big achievement for all of us. i have outlined to you the comprehensive regulatory system for plant protection products in europe and the commission’s efforts to ensure their sustainable use. i also acknowledge that there is no perfect system. ms d’ornano mentioned cases of suicide in france. i was there, i met people and i discussed this with the french authorities. they should assess the situation in a very careful manner because it’s a complex one. some use the word ‘poison’ when speaking about pesticides. i’m sorry, but sometimes, in some quantities, for some people, medicine is poison. so i would say, please, use the correct words and do not simply create rumours about pesticides. the commission is currently evaluating the implementation of the regulation that concerns the authorisation of plant protection products and the setting of maximum residue levels. it will also launch an evaluation of the sustainable use directive in 2020 to determine if this legislation is fit for purpose. i call on the member states to set ambitious targets, with clear timetables, in their revised national action plans. they must demonstrate their commitment to citizens to reduce the risk and impact of the use of pesticides on human health and the environment. let me close by thanking the honourable members for their interest in and support on this important issue. i look forward to the adoption of this important report by parliament. once again, i thank jytte guteland and the shadow rapporteurs for their very good, collaborative work and for this comprehensive report. we will take careful note of the recommendations, and together we will continue on the road towards more sustainable agriculture in europe in order to protect our citizens’ health, the environment, consumers and sustainable agriculture.
additional rapporteur we have heard a number of valid points but obviously as expected this is a rather controversial debate because i believe that pesticide use plays an important role in european agricultural production. after all, it helps to keep plants and fruit healthy for longer and stops the destruction of these plants and fruits by possible diseases or infestations. but, i repeat, the unsustainable use of pesticides, as we have heard today, can lead to a loss of biodiversity, can contaminate and affect the soil, can contaminate and contaminate the water and can even enter our groundwater - our groundwater. there is therefore concern that a pesticide may pose a serious risk to human health. because it can also end up in our food and in our food chain. and this is why there is a particular concern when you have people who are exposed to a pesticide that may have what are known as endocrine disrupting properties. this parliament is concerned about the weak implementation of this directive in a number of member states. after all, pesticide and pesticide dependence is completely incompatible with sustainable agriculture. and we believe that the european union must push for a more sustainable agriculture that promotes prevention, that promotes non-chemical methods, biological controls and even low-risk products. and finally - the report we have discussed today, in my view, sends a concrete and progressive message that we can summarise in four main points. the first point: member states must accelerate and improve the implementation of their integrated pest management practices and must promote non-chemical alternatives and even low-risk plant protection products. secondly: pesticides in public places must end because they also include parks and places where our children and other vulnerable groups such as pregnant women are. the third point: data collection on pesticide use and also pesticide residues in the environment needs to be improved. and finally we need stronger measures that can help to promote more organic farming. i therefore urge everyone, i urge all the political groups to give a strong signal in favour of this report by voting for it today.
mr president, i think one of the main benefits of a united european union is the right to access healthcare in any country of the european union that european citizens have, and the right to be reimbursed for that care that they have received abroad. but this right becomes even more important when we live in a time of continuous change, when we live in a time of rapid development where you have health systems that are being connected together. i believe it is our responsibility to ensure that there is equal access to healthcare systems for all citizens, wherever they are. but for this to really happen we need to make sure we have the right framework in place. we need to facilitate greater cooperation in a number of different areas that are related to medicine and also to healthcare. and here i mention e-health and even treatment for rare diseases. but this is not a matter of one or another member state but a matter common to all member states, in english we say 'across boarder matter', where then the action of the european union has added value. and the real question is how many citizens are aware of their rights, in particular their right to be reimbursed when they go abroad for healthcare. lastly - this means that member states must inform patients about their rights, facilitate this type of healthcare and make sure to simplify processes.
madam president, as has just been pointed out, when you speak of citizenship of a member state of the european union you are talking about citizenship of the european union as a whole. it is therefore correct that this report also refers to passport sales schemes. when you are granted, for example in the case of malta, a maltese passport, you are being granted a passport of the european union. this parliament has been pointing out since 2014 that you cannot have such a sale without having some real link with the country that is issuing that passport. it is a shame to me that the government of malta continues to persist in a lack of transparency. we only learned from the media a short while ago that you had two families from saudi arabia who bought 62 passports together. and now the government, because they know you have a reputation issue, they say but use the money to do social housing, six years too late. i would like to conclude by saying that there are european values that we must embrace, there are also our freedoms, such as the freedom of free movement between european countries, let us beware of such schemes so as not to jeopardise what we have worked so hard for.
madam president, we are certainly talking, as we heard at the beginning of this debate, about a very serious disease that has been described here as the disease of the century. if you look at malta, a small country, we are talking about 2000 new cases of cancer a year, 900 deaths. of those two thousand cases you have three hundred and fifty that are breast cancer. i would say that we have a good cure rate because our rate is 87%, which is above the european average, and here you see the effect of population based screening. but in europe we also need to work towards a higher acceptance rate because you can have screening programmes but not everyone will voluntarily accept them. i would also like to refer to the work of ngos - they are crucial. i have brought them here to give their voice in this parliament too. we must talk about more effective medicine and provide all the necessary resources for this area. above all, prevention is also linked to a better quality of life and better food.
in writing. – as a maltese representative i am proud to say that by passing progressive and necessary legislation, malta is at the forefront of european progress in the field of medical cannabis. a common european approach will impact and shape national health policies, research and education and bring this beneficial treatment to those in need. this resolution is timely as it calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive strategy for the sector, emphasising the all-important need for the standardisation and unification of products containing cannabis-based medicines. this should also cover cbd where a lack of regulation has allowed low—standard products to enter the market across europe. we need to ensure eu—wide standards and requirements that will ensure patients’ safe and reliable access to high quality products. however, it is worth noting that without a structured doctors education programme, it doesn’t matter what the law says if doctors do not have the necessary expertise to prescribe the medicine. education must go hand in hand with the legislation and proper balanced guidelines are essential for the way ahead.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate which shows your interest in these subjects and also, beyond the differences in sensibilities which are normal, since you are political men and women, a certain convergence of views, at any rate what i understand as a majority convergence of views, which i have observed since the beginning of my mandate and our joint work. we have done a lot together and i think we should be proud of that. the mandate of this commission and the mandate of this european parliament will have been marked by absolutely decisive progress in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which is totally unprecedented, and our fellow citizens must be aware of this. i think that this is one of the most important achievements in this period when europe is sometimes attacked, criticized and questioned. but there is still a lot to be done, and i will focus very quickly on three issues which i think are important. the first is the revision of the blacklist of tax havens. the challenge is to see - as i said - what commitments have been made and kept by third countries, to see whether the overall system has been effective. i am convinced of this, and i know that many commitments have been made, and now the member states will have to approve the new lists, both the black list and the grey list. we will see - i believe - quite a few countries coming off the black and grey lists, and others entering, because in truth absolutely spectacular moves will have been made. i would like to say that without the process of inclusion on the union lists, none of this would have been possible. the second is the tax on digital giants. i am aware that it will be difficult to convince the few member states that are opposed to this, but we must keep the debate alive, insisting on the need to preserve the internal market, while more and more states are moving forward on their own. i believe that we must continue to campaign for this, because the time for the european elections is also important. finally, i would add that the discussions on taxation of digital content will have to be continued, where the european union will have to defend a clear and coordinated position. progress is being made at the oecd and the issue will also be discussed at the g20 in osaka. we must invite all our partners to take up this issue, because a global response remains the most appropriate. the third is the changeover to qualified majority voting. he has been the driving force behind your discussions and this does not surprise me entirely, i find it quite natural. it is not a socialist who is proposing this - i am a socialist - it is the commission which has made a communication on this subject and you know very well that the majority of the commission is more epp than socialist, in fact. why is she doing this? because it finds that the real problem for us is not the level of taxation, or the tax rates - we do not even propose to return to it, we do not have the competence - but rather the technology, the leaks, the loss of resources, these big multinationals that do not pay their taxes. frankly, if we were able to recover all the fraud, say in vat, and make the multinational internet companies pay, i take these two examples, then do you really think our national sovereignty would come out weakened? i would add that qualified majority voting has become the rule in almost all areas in the european union. i take the example of judicial and police cooperation. who is to say that it is more difficult to do so in tax matters than in those matters which are areas of sovereignty so dear to the states? but i don't want to preempt the debate here; i know that there will be no decision taken in this mandate, but i wanted to start this debate. why would you do that? because this is a great debate among citizens and, i repeat, i hope that the next european parliament will be composed of parliamentarians who are committed to democracy and also to the powers of parliament, to control over the council, and that they will press the ministers to go in that direction, because in reality it is a matter of rearguard battles. i don't know when it will happen, but it will happen, simply because that is the meaning of history. or we decide that europe is going to stop and that we are not able to have a real tax on energy, a real tax on fighting climate change, a real tax on digital technology, a real tax on financial transactions and that we are powerless in a context where others - china and the united states, to name but a few - are able to protect themselves, to be extremely aggressive in the tax field. that is why i think this debate is a healthy debate, one which should be taken calmly and where real arguments should be exchanged. i am prepared to carry it through to the end of my mandate, because i believe very deeply in this and because it was the time to do so, when citizens are going to be debating these issues. i know that now the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is at the top of the european agenda. we will still have a lot to do together, a lot of battles to fight together, and i want to assure you that until the end of my mandate, until the end of the mandate of this commission, i will be at your disposal to advance this cause to which i have really, since i became european commissioner, devoted a great deal of my time, a great deal of my energy because i think it is, quite simply, very useful, useful to europe, useful to europeans.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you so much for inviting the council to the debate. we heard a lot of interesting thoughts and we listened to you and the bottom line of the debate today is that we share common values and we should continue to work together so that the tax systems of the eu member states are fair and they contribute to our objective of a just society. we should not forget about the social dimension of taxation that was much highlighted today. we fully agree with the presidency of the council that this should be the case. at the same time, i think there was an issue everybody touched upon, which is to use qualified majority voting for taxation. you know very well that, under the current rules, in order to change the way you vote you need a decision of the european council and this has to be followed by the agreement of all national parliaments. i think that the first step in that direction started with the communication of the commission. it’s important that the dialogue on all these aspects has already begun. i think every one of us in the presidency of the council especially is scrutinising the communication of the commission in order to build upon and take stock of the ideas that are there and to pass them to our leaders and our democratically elected national parliaments so that they reflect more thoroughly on these issues. i would like to express, on behalf of the council, that we are confident that the member states will continue to find the best way forward together and we will do our utmost as presidency to contribute to this objective during our term.
in writing. – what should be a normal, ongoing quest to ensure that taxes are just and fair and are being paid, has been transformed into a wholesale exercise to bring about harmonisation of income and company taxes across the eu. the claim is that unfair tax competition needs to be eliminated. but harmonisation would favour the more advanced economies of the union. the centrifugal forces in the union that apply under eurozone, single market rules would continue to strengthen, reinforcing the divergences between regions that have emerged over the years. in reality, the only way by which the peripheral economies of the union can reduce the lags between their economic performance and that of the ‘centre’ is by having recourse to tax flexibility. if even this is removed, then the only policy adjustment to reverse economic downturns will be a reinforced internal devaluation underpinned by austerity policies. that will become increasingly unacceptable to european citizens. indeed, another aspect of the current political discourse about taxation abuse is that it provides a ‘progressive’ screen for political actors who back antisocial austerity policies. to counter tax abuses (which may or may not be rampant), what is needed is not harmonisation but total transparency in the administration of taxes.
mr president, under the current administration, turkey is further away from membership of the european union than it was when it applied years ago. without a free media there is no democracy and the case of pelin unker shows exactly the state of democracy in turkey. pelin is part of the international consortium of investigative journalists and was one of those who reported on the paradise papers scandal. the writer has not been charged and now faces 13 months in prison and a number of fines. all this because in her reporting she mentions important people in politics - people of power in the turkish government. pelin is a mother, and this sentence, if it comes into force, would mean that the mother is separated from her child. this is a cruel and heartless administration, and the turkish people deserve better. i therefore call on my colleagues here today, on the commission and on the council, to take action now and to ask the turkish authorities to drop these false accusations against pelin unker.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the fact that within the space of just one year we have managed to reach an agreement with the council on eu-lisa, sis, etias and interoperability regulations. the visa information system (vis), together with etias and the entry-exit system, will form part of a single platform for third-country nationals visiting the european union. the vis proposal will close the information gap on long-stay document holders, as well as a number of security gaps on both short and long-stay travellers. it is therefore extremely important that the systems are synchronised to the largest extent possible. i strongly believe that the visa information system should be swiftly agreed in the next legislature. i regret that this could not have already been done by now, but i hope we can start dialogues by the end of september. we all remain committed here to delivering a europe that protects and makes our citizens feel safe and secure. that is why i warmly encourage you to support the important elements of this legislation tomorrow in the vote, allowing us to close the existing security gaps and continue working towards building a safer union for all our citizens. let me now reply to my friend mr marias in greek. αγαπητέ κύριε μαριά, σήμερα συζητούμε εδώ ένα πάρα πολύ σημαντικό θέμα. θα μου επιτρέψετε να σας πω ότι η ερώτησή σας δεν έχει καμία σχέση με αυτό το θέμα. επειδή όμως, συμμερίζομαι την ευαισθησία σας, θα ήθελα να σας παρακαλέσω να μου στείλετε μία γραπτή ερώτηση. θα φροντίσω να κάνω τις απαραίτητες ενέργειες να πληροφορηθώ και να σας απαντήσω.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, and allow me to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs of all the groups for their contribution. we are in the same room where in several debates you spoke about european values, the principle of solidarity and the preciousness of people's lives. and in this chamber we have repeatedly stressed the need for our priority as representatives of the european citizens to be to safeguard their interests, to be prepared to take decisions that may not be so popular. for a long time, the issue of immigration was left under the carpet, perhaps in the hope that it would resolve itself. that was not the case then and it is not the case now. instead, this attitude has led to more people feeling alienated from the european union and unfortunately more lives being lost. and we are paying for it because the european institutions are having a hard time regaining the trust of their citizens. it is a fact that the european union has begun and continued to take different steps and measures to address immigration from various aspects, but while the european parliament has continued to move forward towards a common european asylum system that would share the burden between member states, there are crucial proposals that are being put forward in the european council by the leaders of some of the member states. which brings me to the depths we face today. a fund of over €10 billion to enable the european union to use this money with the member states themselves. there are now those who argue, and there will be those who argue tomorrow, that the question of immigration should be addressed outside the borders of the european union. the reality today, however, is that we have many countries in the european union that need financial support to address the problems they are facing today. and we will do so if we truly believe that we want to implement a policy that actually leads to responsibility and solidarity. i come from malta, a country where our citizens know and understand what it means to be on the border. as a country we have saved lives, welcomed people, shouldered responsibility and demonstrated solidarity with facts. and like us, there are other countries in the european union that are on the border and do not turn their faces the other way. of course the commissioner knows what that means. i was therefore pleased that the committee approved and made the principle of solidarity a fundamental principle governing this fund. in our cities and towns we see the work being done by national, regional and local authorities together with civil society and non-governmental organisations to reduce the burden of irregular immigration on our communities. and above all, we understand the support needed in cases where there are children alone. this work needs to be supported and i therefore welcome the committee's decision to support it. hence the importance of the fund's title referring to integration with the aim of recognising and supporting the importance of more cohesive societies and communities. we have 10.4 billion euro, the main purpose of which is to provide the necessary aid to the countries of the european union, especially those most affected. and to do that we need to implement european asylum and immigration policy. it also means making the best possible use of these funds. after all, it is the only internal instrument we have to deal with the issue of immigration among the countries of the european union. and to address the issue of irregular immigration requires work that is focused both within countries but also in third countries. but this financial instrument should be complemented by already existing instruments addressing third countries and we do not pretend that this financial instrument will make up for what is not done with other funds. this fund is built on a number of pillars including the ceas, legal immigration, integration and solidarity. therefore, minimum percentages for each of these objectives are included in the report. these are minimum percentages which do not in any way diminish flexibility but underline the fact that each objective plays an important role in ensuring that no country is left behind. we must make sure that each country plays its part in this chain of solidarity and responsibility. after all, if we believe in the talk we have been making for the last five years about solidarity, then we must see it put into practice.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu budget is far more than an accounting exercise. we all know that. it is a clear and concrete expression of eu political priorities. the commission remains fully committed to continue working with you and the council to start the negotiations on the important files as soon as possible. i look forward to continuing the negotiations.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their contribution. the commissioner is right in insisting that this is a fund that should help member states when they are most in need, and this is precisely the position of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). allow me to say that a minimum percentage of spending on the main objectives of the eu’s migration policy is not an obstacle at all. it channels funding to the objectives that this commission has until now put forward as priorities. supporting flexibility does not exclude ensuring a minimum level of funding for the objectives of the fund. on another point, putting a cap on external funding simply ensures that this funding instrument is used for what it was originally aimed for, that is, an internal funding instrument for migration. we need to support frontline member states. actions in third countries are funded by other external funding instruments and no one should expect this fund to compensate for other funds that might not deliver. let me turn finally to the ppe statement about returns. member states currently spend 42% of the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) on returns and this without any minimum percentage requirement. returns remain an objective of the fund. it has not been removed and member states will certainly find it. we need to ensure it is not the only objective of this fund; not to mention the statement that this fund is not against fighting abuse. i’m still trying to find out where this emanates from. thanks to everyone. we look forward to tomorrow’s vote and thank you for this discussion.
in writing. – it is likely that a request for extension of the brexit negotiations will soon materialise. but to fulfil the objective of the extension and end this impasse, the uk government has to bring to the eu heads of state and government a clear vision of the form of the future relationship that is sought. this is currently lacking. the length of any extension should depend on this vision, and also on the extent to which the european block would want to negotiate. the european side still needs to make its position more transparent. for instance, regarding the backstop for northern ireland, is it true that an approach modelled on the situation between west and east germany in the past has been ignored? if so, why? however, if the withdrawal agreement is indeed not negotiable, it would not make sense to allow the continuation of the negotiations for a much longer period going, say, beyond eu election day. the ongoing controversies within the british political system will not help. using the possible extension to push for a second referendum could push the country towards more chaos. on the other hand it would be disastrous if the extension serves merely to postpone a no-deal brexit.
mr president, progress on the establishment of the european monetary fund (emf) will remain problematic unless the fundamental political divide that underpins the decision is faced and resolved. crucially, the eurozone needs to improve and enhance the institutions that oversee its operations and protect it from the effects of crisis. this will inevitably oblige some centralisation of institutions and their functions. however, there remains a profound mistrust among member states, not least the smaller ones – but not only they – that proposals being made go in the sense of federalisation, which they do not want or which they consider premature. insisting that the european monetary fund should be integrated as of now in the community method exacerbates this tension and hampers forward movement. the report claims that an intergovernmental arrangement would slow down the european monetary fund. perhaps it is better to have a slow emf, initially, to one that remains work in progress.
madam president, we are on the eve of another march against climate change, including in my own home country, malta. youths and students are getting mobilised, but this is not only about the younger generation, this is not just about the future, this is about all of us, it is about now. a un report stated that temperatures are set to rise by at least 1.5° by 2030 if the world does not take drastic measures. an increase of 1.5° in temperature can result in an increase in the sea level of 3.45 m. just ask yourselves what it means for coastal areas, for people and islands like mine that live next to the sea, for low—lying countries. this is the challenge that we are facing today and we are at a time where we are speaking about industry 4.0, the fourth industrial revolution. we are told it is about digitisation and it is about automation. i tend to differ. it has to also be about ecological economies and about sustainable development and this is the moment for an economic paradigm shift. being sustainable in everything we do does not jam our economies, it will give our economies a chance to thrive and grow. what will jam our economies is the traditional model of doing things where sustainable development is not a priority. change requires ambition, ambition requires aspiration, an aspiration that we want to do better, to move to the next level in everything we do, to ensure a future for our children and our economies. this positive transformation has to start from our countries but needs to find momentum at an eu level. it is about ensuring health, eradicating poverty, providing quality jobs and guaranteeing food security. the sustainable development goals address precisely this. it is about ensuring a climate—proof, environment—proof, social—proof and economic—proof future. the discussions have started and the momentum is there. we need to make sure that we act in a decisive way that helps us future proof our societies.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the ppe group would like to request a commission statement on the security threats arising from the rapid dissemination of terrorist content online. as you, mr president, outlined earlier, the horrific scenes in new zealand and utrecht, and the fact that they had an immediate global reach, only reinforces the urgency of the situation. we know only too tragically that our space online is being abused to recruit extremists and fuel hate. we cannot allow any space for terror to flourish online; our online space must be made more secure. the eu is facing a range of terrorist attacks and threats of a violent nature from both network groups and lone actors, all of whom use the internet as a means to communicate, disseminate and recruit. we believe that this is not acceptable. while i know that legislative processes are ongoing, this week must be about sending a strong political signal. it is too important and too urgent to ignore.
mr president, reports on measures to combat tax abuses need to be factual, focused and clear on the causes of abuse and the remedies. on such grounds, regretfully, this report is fundamentally flawed. unfortunately, it takes on board at face value mere allegations and suspicions. disparate elements of financial statecraft get associated with tenuous unsubstantiated links to incipient crime. worse, a bias against smaller states in the commercial institutions is palpable. so the experience of pilatus bank in malta is highlighted. that of deutsche bank in germany – though of much greater concern – is ignored. meanwhile, financial services professionals are considered like criminals in waiting. throughout, a one size fits all approach is adopted. the thrust of discourse follows an agenda that promotes tax harmonisation. this disregards the fact that tax flexibility is the only remaining competitive tool for small peripheral economies in the single market. obviously, the report had to take political considerations into account. here, however, there have been pushed close to the limit of what i would regretfully call ‘tax populism’. i repeat, this report is fundamentally flawed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – all i need to do is repeat what i just read. unfortunately, the report – which madam gomes will have read – takes on board at face value mere allegations and suspicions. disparate elements of financial statecraft get associated in her mind, in her world view, with tenuous unsubstantiated links to incipient crime. this is not the way for a serious parliamentarian to move forward.
our job here is to defend our citizens. that's why i'll always be the first one against the abuse of power. and we will never accept that there is corruption, that there is theft from the people and from the highest levels of government, whoever they are. the interests of the people must come first. they should always come first. we want to be the people's shield here and so in these aspects, this report is very good. but then we have to be consistent. the following proposals on taxation do not apply to a number of member states, they do not apply to the citizens i represent. we can never accept that there are proposals that have one goal: the commission's proposal is to make the taxation of goods and services more transparent and to make it easier for taxpayers to access the information they need. i fight corruption day and night but with the same energy i would like to fight proposals that have a negative effect on employment in a number of countries, including malta and gozo. i have defended sovereignty for fifteen years in the tax system and will continue to do so.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european commission fully shares the commitment of the european parliament and its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), to ensure respect for our common european values. the commission has taken action by initiating, for the first time, the procedure set out in article 7 of the treaty in relation to the actions of the polish government. the european parliament initiated the procedure in relation to the actions of the hungarian government. the commission has used its role of guardian of the treaties by launching a number of infringement proceedings related to the rule of law. all eu member states are monitored by the commission in the context of the european semester. in 2019 the country report on slovakia stresses, in particular, that long-standing concerns regarding the independence of the judiciary remain largely unchanged and do not appear to have been addressed. the 2019 country report on malta underlines that recent reforms have not fully ensured the independence of the judiciary, as also confirmed by the venice commission of the council of europe, and i agree that we have to continue the dialogue with malta, and we will do so. the european semester assessment also increasingly prioritises the fight against corruption. this is important for our economy and society. since 2015, slovakia has received recommendations on fighting corruption on a regular basis. the commission raised concerns about the accountability of the police and the low number of criminal prosecutions, as well as the insufficient protection offered to whistle-blowers. as for malta, the commission is concerned about the lack of efficiency in handling high-profile corruption cases at both the level of investigation and prosecution. the commission addresses these recommendations on a yearly basis with both countries. let me now turn to the safety of journalists and media freedom. as regards safety of journalists, the commission stands firm on the protection of freedom of expression and media freedom. democracy cannot survive if journalists are no longer able to report freely, if they are intimidated, harassed, threatened or even killed for doing their job. it is crucial that the masterminds of the assassinations of daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak and his fiancée, martina kušnírová, are brought to justice. law enforcement and police investigations into individual crimes remain an individual member state competence, but member states have a number of obligations when investigating such crimes. they also have positive obligations to create favourable conditions so that freedom of expression can be effectively exercised. i have to repeat again exactly what i offered both to malta and slovakia, that our agencies europol and eurojust are fully available to support the investigation into those horrible case. now let me turn to the investor citizens schemes and investor resident schemes. as regards investor citizenship and resident schemes in the eu, the commission adopted a comprehensive report on 23 january 2019. as a next step, the commission proposes to set up a group of experts from the member states to look into the specific risks that arise from investor citizenship schemes. this group will develop, by the end of this year, a common set of security checks for investor citizenship schemes. the commission intends to present in june an initiative on further strengthening the rule of law within the union. to prepare this, the commission intends to adopt a communication on the state of play and the possible next steps for further strengthening the rule of law in the union, with the objective of consulting all institutions and interested parties. the work of the european parliament is particularly relevant to feed the reflection on the future initiative. the commission will take due account of the resolution on an eu pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in this context, it will also consider proposals including those relating to the use of possible peer-review mechanisms on the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i am proud of countries, proud of the maltese people, proud that we are members of the european union, of this union of values. pride that comes from a small country but with a great history, which has contributed to the world. this is what makes us all maltese, that our coconut is not a barrier and that ideas are not dependent on size or geographical position. we worked and we achieved, and we did so because our determination comes from our integrity. the character of the maltese and gozitan people is what has always distinguished us. and we had to struggle to sustain our european identity. in this journey we have faced every obstacle imaginable, including from people who ironically are in this parliament today. but despite all the negative campaigns we have always been convinced of what makes us maltese, gozitan and european. maltese values are european values and let's be clear, the murder of journalists should not be acceptable to us. corruption and fraud are not acceptable. impunity and injustice must never be acceptable. i promote and defend what makes us maltese and european, always and everywhere. and this is the spirit of this resolution: provide a framework for how things should be done in the future. i will keep the flags of nations high even when those in power and their allies do everything to bring it down. i am in politics because i have beliefs, i have values and i have principles, and i will continue to do so by speaking on behalf of the maltese and gozitan people.
rule of law issues are being used to advance the polarized and partisan interests that exist in maltese national politics. accusations are being made against malta that are factually incorrect and distorted in order to allow further so-called investigations to be launched. time and again, similar investigations have led to the name of the island being tarnished. the way the monitoring group in parliament's libe committee conducted its inquiry was opaque and arbitrary. a leading member of the group is also a leading member of the opposition party in malta. how can we present ourselves as defenders of the rule of law when we allow judgments of such a large scale on values to be made by a group whose members choose themselves from within and without any transparency. malta has every ability to take its democratic operation into account and reform it, while fully respecting the rule of law. this applies to any area where a crisis may arise. last week the maltese government committed itself to carrying out legislative changes reflecting the recent recommendations of the venice commission on governance. personally, i do not think that this commitment should have been made so quickly. the changes need to be discussed in malta, amongst the maltese, with the maltese, not with prejudiced members of this house. however, it is certain that the decision taken by the government constitutes a clear signal, even by the dubious measure of this chamber, that malta is and will remain a state that fully respects the rule of law. i expect the members of this parliament to face the facts honestly.
for me, his country and its people are the most important thing. but on thursday this parliament will be asked to vote on a resolution which gives the impression that this is some country, namely malta, which is not interested in the rule of law. the irony is that while this parliament is today focusing on malta, in malta we have a government that today, and in less than a hundred days, is bringing amendments to parliament on the advice of the venice commission to reform the laws. and i am glad to hear the rapporteur say that amendments will be tabled and i would like to see those amendments because the current state of the resolution certainly does not give a clear picture of what is happening. and the commissioner cited judicial appointments as an example where she felt that not enough was done. what the commissioner did not mention is that the current government agrees to further reforms requiring constitutional amendments requiring two-thirds of the members of parliament, as communicated to you by the commissioner in a letter sent to you. these are reforms of laws that a previous epp government did not address in twenty-five years.
blue-card question. – since i was mentioned in an incoherent speech, which i couldn’t even follow, i would like my colleague to kindly specify more clearly, if you are against these reforms – because that is what i am understanding from you.
rapporteur. – mr president, allow me, first and foremost, to start by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i worked on this legislation. thank you for your ambition. thank you for your different points of view and your ideas, which many times allowed me to formulate and push for a strong position. the last months were tough. we negotiated hard, but we are here today because we do understand that the transition to a carbon—neutral economy can help address climate change, improve our health and environment, and can bring a new impulse to our countries’ industrial competitiveness. the legislation aimed at reducing co2 emissions for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is part of this whole transition. it’s part of a bigger picture, one that requires a shift from traditional economic models to ones rooted in sustainability, where new technologies can flourish, where innovation takes centre stage and where further investments are channelled into research and development. the final co2 reduction targets agreed upon during the trilogue negotiations for 2025 and 2030 are a step in this direction, but they are just the beginning of a transitory path towards the economy of the future. after a number of meetings with the council and the commission, we managed to agree that new cars will need to emit 37.5% less co2 and new vans will need to emit 31% less co2 from 2030 onwards. between 2025 and 2029 both cars and vans will be required to emit 15% less co2. electric cars, plug-in hybrids, hydrogen, fuel cell technology and efficient combustion engines will all play a role. i am glad that we managed to achieve this. the road was not always easy and we had to overcome some tough lobbying and initial opposition, even from some member states. but anyway, what’s easy? at the end of the day we managed to successfully close a number of loopholes that would otherwise have weakened the legislation. we made sure that during the transition to the new test cycle manufacturers will not be allowed to inflate the worldwide harmonised light vehicle test procedure (wltp) value. for the very first time, there is an obligation on the commission to monitor and report fuel consumption meter data to ensure emission reductions are delivered on the road and not only in the laboratory. acknowledging the importance of new infrastructure, the legislation is echoing parliament’s position, pushing for more investment to develop recharging infrastructure all over europe and in favour of mobilising and incentivising significant public and private investment. understanding the concerns of trade unions, the legislation allows for the allocation of excess emission premiums to a fund that would help the reskilling and upskilling of workers. this fund is aimed to achieve a climate—neutral economy without negative social implications and, in particular, to support workers in the european car manufacturing industry, a key priority for myself and my political group, the s&d. the new law means fuel savings for consumers and will make it affordable to buy zero- and low-emission vehicles in the years to come. i have always said that i believe in policymaking that pushes change. policies need to move the shift towards cleaner transport and we, as policymakers, need to encourage and stimulate this move, as i believe we’ll be doing in this legislation. this is our opportunity to inject new life into the eu’s manufacturing sector, create new skilled jobs and boost economic growth in industry 4.0. once again allow me to thank commissioner arias cañete for his participation and positive help in this legislation. thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and thanks to everyone for their input.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate, which shows the importance of this legislation. let me stress again that we now have another key element to implementing the 2030 european union climate and energy framework and meeting our commitments under the paris agreement. the legislation is not only to protect our environment: this legislation will help european union industry to retain its leading competitive position in a fast-changing global market with a demand for clean products and business models that support sustainable mobility and is increasingly significant. the agreed co2 emission standard for cars and vans will drive new jobs in europe. increased consumer expenditure, increased investment in infrastructure, reduction of oil imports and expansion in the battery sector are all positive drivers for job creation. this legislation will bring strong economic benefits and be good for consumers, who will not only benefit from cleaner air, but will also save money when fuelling their vehicles. to summarise, this is a very good compromise and together we can be proud of the result of our joint efforts. we all know about the scale of efforts needed to reach our long-term climate objectives and some contributions to the debate have pointed to that. this legislation is a step in the right direction. therefore, i invite you to lend your support in tomorrow’s vote. it is important to ensure it can enter into force swiftly. there is no time to lose in our fight against climate change, and this is what our citizens, including our young generation, expect from all of us.
rapporteur. – mr president, my thanks to all the colleagues, and thank you commissioner once again. but allow me to address a couple of issues that were mentioned. first and foremost, let’s stop the scaremongering which says that more investment by companies equates to more expensive cars. with all due respect, all the studies that we were shown – even the impact assessment by the commission itself – confirmed the financial benefits for consumers, as mentioned just now by the commissioner himself when he was speaking about a decrease in consumer expenditure. consumer benefits are the most evident thing in this legislation. i would have expected some of the members speaking tonight to know the details of what we are going to vote upon tomorrow. so for example we had mr meuthen, who has not even realised that we are speaking about zero and low-emission vehicles defined as vehicles that would emit 50g per km. and we had mr kölmel from the ecr, who has not even realised that this is part of a whole package of legislation which addresses different sectors and that this parliament doesn’t focus on mobility or passenger vehicles alone. the reality is that change is happening, investments are being channelled into new technologies and research is being carried out to ensure that the eu, for example, can produce batteries and battery cells within its boundaries. i am really glad that members who originally proposed less ambition today are speaking about this compromise positively, because i am convinced that it was the initial ambition of this parliament that changed things. and things will continue to change. just look around at the models that are currently being rolled out and also the increased kilometrage that zero and low-emission vehicles have today. things have changed from a couple of months ago to today. my concluding remark would be, let’s continue working to make sure that we attract investments to this continent, to the european union, that we roll out the required infrastructure and charging stations and develop the necessary technology to produce battery cells and batteries here within the european union. i look forward to the vote tomorrow. thank you to all the colleagues for their contributions. once again, thank you, commissioner and to all the staff for their help.
in writing. – to assert a meaningful role on the global stage, the european union needs a strong economic base for prosperity and competitiveness. the heads of state and government say they stand for a long-term vision of the eu’s industrial policy, one that boosts investments in technology, research and innovation. however they fail to link this priority to the allocation of resources to research in the fundamental sciences. their commitment places europe midstream in the flow from fundamental science to applied research. so, our best graduates in fundamental science drift towards the us and asia. meanwhile, economic and social divergences within the union continue to grow. the european council remains elusive on this. economic reform programmes must dedicate more efforts to correct existing regional and national imbalances and to bridge gaps between member states in the area of social policy. the european council fails to commit towards change on issues related to equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection including the elimination of precarious employment of young people, and the need to counterbalance the growth of profits by an improvement in remuneration levels. economic reforms only make sense if they imply social progress for the working and middle classes, for young people and pensioners.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur frédérique ries, and also the s&d shadow rapporteur, massimo paolucci, with whom we worked to ensure that we had a law that addressed the key issues. we are in a situation where every minute, a truckload of plastic waste ends up in our seas. and if nothing is done, that amount will double by the year two thousand and thirty. the agreement reached on single use plastics is an important step because this law is a clear example of a policy that is helping to change the mindset. it is helping to bring about greater awareness among citizens, particularly our young people and children who have become much more aware of the alternatives that exist. i believe there are three issues that we need to address now. first - incentivising the reuse of plastic picked up from the sea as a well-known company is doing by for example making slippers from plastic picked up from the sea. second - to make sure that plastics don't end up in our oceans in the first place. a system where plastic bottles are being turned into plastic bottles is important, just as it is important to have a system of 'upcycling' where you have plastic bottles being turned into higher-grade material, including into clothes. third - to promote more alternatives such as the case of companies producing cutlery from different materials, including edible materials. and this is the next step to complement the work that private companies, various organisations, young people and children are doing with their daily work to remove plastics from our seas and campaigns.
madam president, we are the first generation of politicians to have started to understand the damage that single-use plastics are doing to the environment. we are also already the last generation that can do anything about it. 75% of the waste that goes into the seas and oceans is plastic. i come from malta and gozo, islands in the middle of the mediterranean, where we see plastic piles in our valleys, on our beaches and consequently in our fish every day. we cannot continue at this rate. the decision to finally stop using this type of plastic will come into force in the year 2021. a big step forward but not enough. we may have the best laws in the world, but change has to happen on an individual level. small differences, hardly noticed, can make a huge difference in our lives. we cannot afford to wait any longer, we need to act now.
member of the commission. i thank you, mr president, and thank you very much for your hospitality. mr president, this debate is a landmark moment for the european union. it is probably i say probably because there is another issue still waiting the last time we are debating a security initiative in the plenary and it is also in opportunity to reflect, realising how far we have come in the last five years. from the first time we debated in plenary it was late 2014 we saw eye to eye on the need to change the way member states cooperated on security. to overcome the security taboos of the past and look at internal security as a collective european issue that can only be addressed with more trust and ever-closer cooperation. in this sense our debate today is an excellent case in point in terms of our progress during these five years. the interoperability of our information systems for borders, migration and security is an issue which concerns all of us. interoperability is an exercise in the silo breaking, for while it might sound technical it is exactly the step change we need to enhance the security of our citizens in europe, to protect and better manage our common external borders and better manage migration. for precisely these reasons, i would like to express my gratitude to the co-rapporteurs, mr lenaers and mr melo, as well as to all the shadow rapporteurs and their assistants, for realising the importance of this proposal we submitted a little over a year ago. interoperability is the most effective way to fight fragmentation of efforts, close information gaps and address the risks of terrorists and serious criminals crossing our borders undetected. this is the european union at its best, empowering and supporting our border guards and police officers with the right tools to do their job and protect citizens. interoperability is also the european union taking a decisive step towards an effective and genuine security union, managing the parallel and interconnected challenges of migration and security in a comprehensive and holistic way. all this while making sure, throughout the process and with your great contribution, that fundamental rights will be fully respected, that interoperability is no big brother or a super database and that nothing changes in terms of the access of each official or authority to the underlying data in our information systems. the involvement of the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor in the preparatory process of our proposal showed, from day one, that security and privacy are two sides of the same coin, and in the european union both can and should be ensured. dear colleagues, our citizens want more and a stronger europe when it comes to security. we see this in every public survey and we hear it every time we are out there meeting our citizens. interoperability can be the game-changer in how we use information to the best possible effect to keep our citizens safe. in an election year, this couldn't be more important. we are delivering concrete action, responding to our citizens' top concerns. we can all be justifiably proud of this achievement. my sincere thanks once again therefore go out to all who made a contribution to our excellent co-rapporteurs, mr melo and mr lenaers, and of course to my good friend and colleague, julian king, for his dedication, commitment and determination to lead us all to this successful outcome.
member of the commission. – mr president, well, we could have come up with a better name but interoperability is crucially important for some of the reasons that we have just heard. we started by asking those on the front line how we could help, what they needed. and they replied that there were some issues surrounding the handling, the use of information. in particular, there was a challenge surrounding picking up, identifying people who were using multiple identities. we’ve heard that that led to some horrible terrorist attacks. one of the reasons that those on the front line felt occasionally frustrated was because of the way that they used our eu-wide databases and the way our eu-wide databases – security and others – interacted or, in some cases, didn’t interact effectively. we replied that we would take steps to try and help them, to help them to do their jobs to keep us safe, to provide police officers and border guards with efficient access to accurate and complete data, making the best possible use of the information that we had in our systems and finding ways to eliminate some of the silos, some of the gaps and some of the blind spots. indeed, that is what our citizens expected, as commissioner avramopoulos has underlined. many of them, i think, assumed that we can do it already, which is why it’s so important that we’ve been able to get to this point and take this step. but all of us who have been involved knew from the outset that there were many complex and, indeed, sensitive issues that had to be managed if we were going to make a success of this. that is why i think we can rightly recognise, as all the speakers have done so far, that we got to this point by working effectively together. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), indeed across parliament, at the council, at the european data protection supervisor and fundamental rights agency, from the very beginning. for me, this is another positive from the work we’ve done around this subject. we have shown that we can integrate all of those different stakeholders from the very beginning of our work and we’ve shown that we can do effective security policy integrating the input from the data supervisor and the fundamental rights agency from the outset. and then again, later on in the process, give them an opportunity to check that the work is effectively respecting those key fundamental rights. the work that we’ve achieved together will improve the management of the schengen external border. it will enhance the internal security of all our member states. law enforcement and border guards will have easier access to the information that they are entitled to use. they will be better able to determine when someone has been registered with multiple identities, picking up those who are hiding behind multiple identities, but at the same time, facilitating travel for legitimate travellers. in doing all of this, we have been very careful to maintain purpose limitations and safeguard those fundamental rights. data processing will be limited to what is strictly necessary and proportionate. no new kinds of information will be collected for the purpose of interoperability. indeed, if i may say so, the scrutiny that the european parliament exerted around this file has further clarified the protections and safeguards, for example around the right to information. and that is something, personally, that i very much welcome. the result is a strong piece of legislation that addresses security needs of our member states, makes use of innovative technologies, but includes safeguards needed to process data in full compliance with our fundamental rights. i very much enjoyed working – if i can say that on a personal basis – with the rapporteurs, mr lenaers, mr melo, and indeed with all of their teams. i know it’s not the usual custom here but can i just take two seconds to thank the commission team as well who worked very, very hard on this, putting in many long hours. together we got to this result and once the legislation is adopted it will be for all of us to make sure it’s implemented effectively, starting with eu-lisa, an agency which i know enjoys the full support of this house. we’re going to have to make sure that all of these measures that we have now agreed are put into practice. the innovations that we’ve set out, that you have underlined, will only make a real difference to security on the ground if and when they are fully implemented, collectively at eu level and in each and every member state. i’m sure that parliament will want to continue to monitor closely the follow-up to this file and this question of implementation. for our part, the commission will provide support as well as funding and, where necessary, we will not hesitate to use our enforcement powers to make sure that the member states live up to the commitments that they have taken. again, this agreement is good for the eu, it’s good for the security of all of our citizens. i commend it to this house.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, what we are discussing today was not an easy legislation. my colleague from s&d, péter niedermüller, and i worked hard to ensure that any compromise reached safeguarded our citizens’ fundamental rights and also the rights of any persons whose data will be compiled and stored. what we are dealing with is a large-scale information system, and at no point as s&d were we ready to compromise on the principles of union law on data protection and the fundamental rights of individual citizens. for us, security was always a priority, but so is data protection. through our negotiations we always wanted to ensure effective and efficient information exchange between the eu information systems for the professionals on the ground: police officers, border guards, migration officers and consulate staff members. that’s why as s&d we were pushing to include very strong wording on non-discrimination and fundamental rights provisions, together with specific references that will protect our citizens’ privacy and their personal data. that’s why we pushed also for the creation of a web portal that will help citizens whose data is incorrectly stored in one of the eu databases. we pushed for this because we wanted to provide the possibility to people wanting to challenge the data held about them incorrectly, by directing them to the correct authority responsible for rectifying those data. we need to ensure that in our quest to address security issues, we do not sideline rights that our citizens have worked hard for, including the right to protect fully the data. a balance can and should always be reached.
mr president, erasmus is one of the european union's most successful projects, a project that has helped millions of young people to benefit from learning and mobility opportunities. over the next seven years we can expect erasmus to continue to grow and expand. but to do so, it needs a budget that provides sufficient funds. the commission's proposal to double the budget is not enough. the same budget needs to be tripled to deliver a more inclusive and accessible erasmus+. it is therefore our support for the proposal to triple the 2021-2027 erasmus+ funds. this will allow more people to participate and more funds to be made available to meet the needs of participants. the programme shall focus on inclusiveness and in particular on providing better access for people with fewer opportunities and those with special needs. everyone should have the same prospects, but not everyone has had the possibility to benefit from erasmus so far. it needs non-discriminatory and barrier-free access to truly have erasmus open to all.
president of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i do not really feel like commenting any further on this brexit issue. but mr henkel has made some points here which i must strongly disagree with. because what he's saying isn't true. it was not juncker or the commission who forced the uk to hold a referendum. that was mr. cameron. mr cameron did this despite the fact that we tusk and i had agreed with him on a withdrawal agreement. we have defended this withdrawal agreement; not mr cameron, not a word. what we have been discussing for nights has not been mentioned by the british government, by mr cameron, during the referendum campaign. and in that agreement there were big concessions in terms of the free movement of workers. you have to read the deal and listen to this. you quoted mr farage. he didn't speak at all today. so i think what you've done here is dishonest. why can you accuse the commission of going too far in harmonizing? we have taken hundreds of texts off the agenda, and we have proposed only 23 new initiatives - 100 fewer per year in direct comparison with the previous commission. well, i took the liberty of answering you because you're not staying here anymore.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, we have to remain confident and patient, even if there is some delay. the parliamentary process in the uk will lead to some clarity on the next steps in our future relationship with the uk, with or without a withdrawal agreement. depending on the outcome, we will have to address the implementation of the agreement on which we will have to exert a rigorous oversight so that it delivers in the interest of citizens and businesses, or to engage in negotiations for a future relationship with the uk, even in the case of a no-deal scenario, but with clear pre-conditions. we will therefore count on your cooperation at all the stages of these processes in the years to come.
in writing. – the crisis in coming to a ‘final’ settlement over brexit weighs most heavily on britain. the institutions there have not coped successfully with the challenge of addressing how brexit, once endorsed by the british people, should be defined and then how negotiations about it should be conducted. however, it is illusory to believe that the current fiasco – and worse any diplomatic crash that could result – will impact mostly on the uk alone. the fiasco, and potentially worse, could create deep fissures within the union itself. these would reinforce existing levels of distrust, not least between east and west. moreover, further ripple effects could ensue in the same direction, not least about issues of financing, cohesion and freedom of movement. clearly, the framework provided by article 50 for withdrawal from the union is not fit for purpose, as i have argued right from the start of the brexit talks. it seems to me that, with their emphasis on keeping a unified position, eu leaders may be misjudging the need to remain flexible in sticking to their red lines of border integrity, the sanctity of free movement rules and the implications of negotiating time-frames.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for a very enlightening and good – slightly heated – debate on this very important matter. first, i want to make clear that the most important thing for everyone is that our public pension systems are robust and can deliver what they are meant to deliver. in many member states – if not in all – we have to pay attention to reforming the public pension systems in order to make them strong, even in an era where the number of aging people in our societies is increasing significantly. so we have to do everything possible to strengthen public pension schemes. but this particular product, pepp, has nothing to do with public pension schemes. it does not replace public pension schemes. it only increases the alternatives available for ordinary citizens. in many of our member states, if you look at statistics, people who have temporary jobs – not permanent decade—long careers, but a temporary job – sometimes with quite low salaries, have wanted to complement their public pensions by taking a private pension product, and now what we are doing is increasing alternatives. we are creating regulations and rules for existing european pension products. is this wrong? i don’t think so. it’s positive, because it may lead to greater competition between service providers and it usually leads to better quality, safer and cheaper products for end consumers. i have seen that this issue is very easy to use for disinformation, spreading messages that we are privatising public pension schemes. everybody should know that this is not true; even food is sold in private companies. so i am sure that, even though there are different ideologies and different priorities, there is no one in this chamber who would like to spread disinformation to our voters, because it’s not worth it. it’s not responsible. it’s better to explain what this proposal and this product really does in our societies and, at the same time, to convey messages that we have to be responsible and also make sure that our public pension schemes are in good shape, also in the future when there will be fewer people of working age and more people retiring and enjoying public pension schemes.
the rapporteur. madam president, we are just a few steps away from an agreement in this plenary and i am convinced that this directive will lead to direct investment in families across europe. i believe that what we are presenting today is a balanced legal act that introduces minimum rules that will give rights and access to both men and women to parental leave, paternity leave and carers' leave as well as the right to request flexible working arrangements. concretely, this directive introduces 10 days of leave for fathers, two months of paid parental leave, five days per year of carers' leave for each worker and the right for parents to request flexible working arrangements. important the fact that the aim of this directive goes beyond increasing the rights of parents and carers. it will also lead to greater gender equality so that responsibilities can be better shared. during the negotiations i have always insisted that we should eliminate inequality between men and women in work-life balance arrangements and in employment opportunities. my aim was to get to the point where the benefits are not just for the employees but also for the employers. several studies show that, traditionally, it is women who suffer most when parenting responsibilities are not the same, both as parents and as carers, with the result that they have to stop working and this increases the gender employment gap, the gender pay gap and pensions. in these measures, it will now be easier for parents to share the care of their children or take care of their relatives. it will also ensure that men are involved as much as women in the first years of their children. at the same time, women should be supported to enter the world of work without affecting the right of parents to spend time with their children. women should have the necessary support to reach their full potential in the workplace. on the other hand we want to see more fathers being more involved in their children's upbringing. we therefore need to provide the necessary tools to help them achieve both of these aspirations. in today's society we also need to recognise the importance of carers in every family. caring for someone means a lot of physical and mental commitment. i believe we need to give more importance to carriers also with the necessary support. i also believe that these proposals will be of benefit to everyone. family members who care for relatives or elderly people who are unable to work have the right to leave and so we have tried to address this reality and bring it to the law that we are presenting to you today. we will also create a europe where children, in particular boys, will grow up in an environment where both parents share responsibilities with each other and this will help to change the culture around these kinds of responsibilities. i will close by urging you to support this law, a balanced law, good for women, good for men, good for families and good for the economy. an important step towards a more social europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, as you know, and some of you said it also in the debate, the negotiation process has not been easy. we have come a long way to reach this result and we all had to show flexibility and compromise on certain points. but i am convinced that the agreement on the table is well balanced and preserves the main objectives of our original proposal. it proves that social europe and a sustainable europe is not a theoretic, imaginary objective but an evolving reality on the ground. i am convinced that it will provide concrete improvements to the family and working lives of our citizens, transforming the principles of the european pillar of social rights into reality. it’s not only a question of fairness, but it is a triple win. it’s good for working parents and carers, who will enjoy a better balance between their private and professional lives. it’s good for businesses, also smes, which will profit from attracting and keeping talent, and it is good for member states that currently lose out altogether eur 370 billion every year due to the gender employment gap today. i truly believe that family-friendly policies are a key driver to economic growth. therefore, i call on all of you to support the directive on work-life balance and i want to thank you very much for the kind words to the commission and to me personally. you can be assured that the commission will follow closely the transposition of this directive. thank you again for your engagement and dedication to this nice work.
the rapporteur. mr president, i too would naturally like to thank commissioner thyssen, and also commissioner jourová, for their help, for their proposal, and also for their patience. i would like to thank my colleague agnieszka, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs we had for this directive. of course there were shadow rapporteurs who wanted absolutely nothing, and we had shadow rapporteurs who wanted more than we actually have in front of us. however, the majority of the shadow rapporteurs, the members of parliament in this house, as you heard today, agree that this is a balanced law. we had to hold several meetings, both with the etuc, with businesseurope and with sme organisations, which were important for us to get a view of where we were and where we could go. of course i would have liked to have brought more, but what we have before us is a guarantee that we will have a much more social europe than we have today. i would also like to express my satisfaction at this debate, which was a perfect reflection of the work we have done, not only with the members of the european parliament, but also in the council. in other words, even the council's position was, at the beginning of this directive, more opposite when in fact, when we look at what happened at the end, we find that the majority of the council members voted also in favour of this arrangement that we all found together. this is not a win for one person. this is a win for three institutions at once who worked together to get the result we have today, and so i close by urging each and every one of them to support this law, which is a balanced law, good for women, good for men, good for families, good for the economy, but most importantly, good for social europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, i do not agree that we should vote on the amendments first. here we have a balanced directive. those amendments shall cease to apply. and so i ask the majority of this parliament to vote against voting on the amendments before the arrangement.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to start by pointing out that when we are voting on this directive, on this new law, tomorrow i think it will be a very appropriate day, because tomorrow marks exactly 18 months since the murder of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia. and so i think it is also in this context that we have to look at the importance of such a law, through which the european union is sending a message in favour of protecting whistleblowers and also in favour of protecting investigative journalists. i was honoured to work on this law with my colleagues in both the legal affairs committee and the committee responsible for culture, and culture includes the media, and i say that they did so not only because we are giving more protection to the informant, not only are we giving more protection to the investigative journalist, but we are giving the greatest protection to the citizen, to our people, who through whistleblowers, through investigative journalism, are given the information to which they are entitled. i close with a small appeal: member states must implement quickly and fairly what the law says not give protection according to the whistleblower's whims but real protection according to our belief that we want to help people, that the citizen, have all the information that he otherwise would not have.
madam president, i am very pleased that we are today a few steps away from agreeing on a european law on the protection of persons who disclose breaches of european union law. rules that will make it easier for whistleblowers to report irregularities. and most importantly, they will be protected, regardless of whether they report internally, externally or to national or european authorities. i have been talking about this for many years and insisting on european rules on the protection of whistleblowers and i am happy that protection will now be given when reports are made of breaches of european laws ranging from money laundering to environmental protection. in my career i have had the opportunity to see firsthand how important and courageous these 'whistleblowers' are, as well as those who help investigative journalists. i naturally think of the murdered journalist daphne caruana galizia, as well as the whistleblower jonathan ferris, whose protection the maltese state is still refusing to grant. we have been through a lot, madam president, and i want to thank commissioner jourová here very warmly for the protection she is always trying to give to these people as well as to my fellow meps like ana gomes, monica macovei, mep kouloglou and others who have seen the situation in countries and how important it is that investigative journalists are given the protection they deserve. thank you for your support.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur first of all for the work that we have to do because over the years the work has changed and now we have to adapt to this new reality and to achieve this, the rules of the european union have to be updated and modernised. this is a small step, but another step towards creating the social europe we have been working for, especially in the last five years, and here i would like to thank commissioner marianne thyssen and president jean-claude juncker and together with the members of this house, especially the committee on social affairs, employment and the working environment, we have done our best to make europe more social than it is today. and this directive before us, this declaration, is necessary because today work is digital and we have new types of contracts and even different forms of employment. the reality is that short term contracts, so-called zero hours contracts and on demand contracts are everywhere, and this directive is now addressing these types of contracts. and so we now have a way to protect workers more, on those working on digital platforms. and so i thank once again all those who were involved in bringing this document to us today.
madam president, working conditions are very important because work is, after all, one of the most integral parts of our lives. i, as shadow for the epp group in the committee on legal affairs, was on this directive, i also held consultation meetings with the workers' unions and even with the employers in malta. and incredible what you hear about him. workers who enter work without a contract of employment, with their salary do not know when it will start. another situation i have left with is that of workers who have to undergo mandatory training but pay for it themselves, even in the public sector. this directive, which, although there is still room for further steps, sends clear messages. i believe that not only for workers but also for businesses, because the more clear and guaranteed minimum conditions there are, the more fair competition there is between all businesses.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, jeroen lenaers, on the excellent result he has achieved in this legislation and on the fact that we have taken important steps to further achieve a more social and fairer europe. yes, this is another success story in implementing the principles of the european pillar of social rights and also a success story in the opportunities offered by the common market. the european labour authority will be there to help and assist individual member states' authorities to fight against any abuses and fraud and make this same mobility easy for citizens. it will also be there to help with cooperation between european countries and to enforce the laws that apply. to do this, we had to create clear, fair and properly enforced rules on labour mobility. it is only with good synergy and cooperation between the authorities of the member states that this is possible. without forgetting the important role that the social partners play in this process. as we know, the common market is central to the european plan and project, and mobility in the european union is a reality we see and experience every day where millions of european citizens work, live and travel.
madam president, europeans have a duty to show that their greatest interest in libya is the well-being of the libyan people. not the oil. it will not control access to central africa's mineral resources. first we must agree on the essentials. for europe, it is essential that libya does not end up a haven for terrorism. in the meantime, what the libyan people need is stability. it may, sooner or later, be the seed of peace and democracy. without stability, none of this can happen. we should not be working to have a regime in libya that we like, for whatever reason, set up as soon as possible. foreign interference in the governance of libya has led to the state of anarchy that exists today. in this, europeans bear a great responsibility. we must help, yes, in every goodwill effort, to make sure that all the forces in libya, representing genuine interests, are heard and given strength. but in the process, we cannot continue to agree with the existing paralysis in how the libyan people can proceed to set up national institutions. our support should be given to those forces which are ready, in unity, to contain the present anarchy, provide security for the libyan people and move the country towards the stability essential for the normal functioning of libyan society.
mr president, allow me straight away to say congratulations to both the rapporteurs and the commissioner for adopting the new framework programme before the european elections, because this can now allow for the smooth implementation of the many funding instruments, processes and programmes involved. i am glad that this parliament took the issue of the research and innovation divide in europe seriously because for far too long we had closed clubs, and it’s high time that these closed networks opened up to the lower—performing member states. i believe that this is the way forward if we honestly want to have a european union that develops a modern, competitive, innovative and truly sustainable economy. specific initiatives need to be established so that we retain existing research talent and attract young promising talent. helping out the lower—performing member states when it comes to research and innovation is a matter of shared responsibility and ownership, and it is imperative that the eu take substantive action.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, it is my pleasure to speak also on behalf of the juri committee, to thank my colleague for the excellent cooperation we have had, and to thank the commissioner for her commitment in this regard. as we've heard, it's a fact that today businesses need the platforms. small businesses more than large ones. they need the platforms to reach their consumers. hence the need for an environment that is more transparent and fairer. when i consulted in malta on this, i heard how much europe wants to help tourism even more. i mention tourism because here those working in the tourism sector want more access to information. information on what has been collected on them.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the eu prides itself on having the most robust and efficient food safety system in the world. at the same time, european citizens are more and more interested in the food they eat and where it comes from. our citizens are understandably sensitive about risk-assessment and risk-management decisions in the food chain. so, it is not surprising that eu citizens have called for additional reassurances on the safety of their food. the findings of the recent fitness check of the general food law and the european citizens’ initiative in relation to glyphosate bear witness to that. but before going any further, let me first congratulate the european parliament and the council. the positive outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the commission’s proposal for the regulation on the transparency and sustainability of the eu risk assessment in the food chain is an important step. both co-legislators have shown a clear commitment to this important fight, following an open intense and constructive exchange. you have managed to reach a provisional agreement on this commission proposal in a record time of 10 months. this provisional agreement on the eu transparency rules is a significant stepping stone to meeting citizens’ expectations for more transparency in the risk assessment of the food chain. allow me to elaborate on the agreements’ main features and briefly explain its objectives. the provisional agreement is a revision of the eu food safety system, with the focus on transparency. greater transparency of the risk assessment process will contribute to the legitimacy of the european food safety authority (efsa). it will increase consumer confidence in the risk assessment system and it will ensure that efsa is more accountable to eu citizens. with this goal in mind, the provisional agreement provides for the pro-active public disclosure of all scientific studies and data supporting a request for a scientific output. this takes place early in the risk assessment process once an the application has been considered valid or admissible. this disclosure is more closely linked with two other proposed actions: public consultation on submitted studies and the notification of commissioned studies to support application for authorisation in a database that will be established and managed by efsa. these measures will ensure that efsa can access the relevant scientific evidence before it drafts its scientific opinion. enhanced public scrutiny will also serve to strengthen consumer trust in the risk assessment process. at the same time, the original agreement bears in mind the need to maintain the competitiveness of the eu food and feed sector. in order to stimulate innovation, the provisional agreement sets out safeguards for the protection of justifiable confidential information. similarly, the provisional agreement respects existing intellectual property rights, data exclusivity rules and the protection of personal data. not only is this a crucial ingredient in stimulating innovation, but it is also essential for the global recognition of european product safety. furthermore, to assist applicants and, most importantly, small and medium-sized enterprises the provisional agreement introduces the possibility for efsa to provide pre-submission advice. this advice will facilitate the better understanding of the application process and make life easier for our innovators. in order to ensure trade transparency and efsa’s long term sustainability, member states will be represented on the efsa management board. the management board of efsa will also include two members appointed by the european parliament. as the honourable members are aware, this deviates from the common approach of parliament, the council and the commission on decentralised agencies of 19 july 2012. the commission will be transmitting a statement to the european parliament regretting this deviation. similarly, and without jeopardising efsa’s independence, member states will be more actively involved in ensuring the presence of experts on efsa’s scientific panels. it is important that strong, clear messaging on risks is available to our citizens. the provisional agreement recognises this and aims to improve our communication on risks. the agreement lays the foundation for a comprehensive and effective risk-communication strategy. this will ensure that the message will be clear, comprehensive and consistent regardless of whether it comes from the commission, efsa or member states. i commend the house on for its active commitment, engagement and dedication in reaching the provisional agreement. i look forward to the positive outcome of the plenary vote. commission statements(in writing) "the commission welcomes the political agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation on the transparency and sustainability of the eu risk assessment in the food chain. however, the commission regrets that the co-legislators have decided to deviate from the common approach of the parliament, the council and the commission on decentralised agencies of 19 july 2012. in particular, the commission regrets the deviation from the common approach with regard to the composition of the management board of the european food safety authority (number of members designated by the european parliament). this deviation should not be considered as a precedent for other agencies."
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we all remember the scandal around the chemical industries’ pressure to get glyphosate—based pesticides approved. it got a lot of coverage and a lot of discussions going on, and this legislation was the response to that scandal. i am glad to say that this was an initiative that shows that the european union heard the citizens’ voice and parliament is reacting to the european citizens’ initiative to ban glyphosate and protect people from toxic pesticides. we have been calling for a more transparent and independent system. we have succeeded in promoting timely public access to information held by the european food safety authority (efsa). this will increase control over the process of authorising substances that we unwittingly consume in our diet, whether these be pesticides, gmos, food additives, food contact materials or flavourings. thanks to the new rules on the active and early disclosure of information during the risk assessment, efsa opens its doors to citizens and their scrutiny of data provided by the industry. any information relevant to safety assessment will always be disclosed to the public. the s&d group’s aim was to stop fraudulent practices such as concealing of unfavourable studies and data or buying favourable results, and we succeeded. we want no more glyphosate-type cases in the european union; no more decisions behind closed doors and no more gambling with people’s health. in today’s world where the driving force is money, the only hope for citizens is to have a robust system of authorisation that will be sufficiently resistant to external pressure. i am glad that our group has proved that we put consumers’ health and rights above any commercial interests.
mr president, this is very important legislation which will have repercussions in all the member states of the european union and the free movement of workers within the union itself. the proposed amendments are extensive and essentially address measures for the following, a long-term care benefit, for posted workers: this is of course a positive. however, recent discussions on this report and divergent positions on this issue raise doubts. i feel that we are still a little short of our targets and the lack of a provisional agreement puts the improvement of this right at risk. this is also due to a lack of a majority in the council. so we cannot go wrong. we need to ensure that any changes to the law improve people's lives and do not hamper citizens, workers, employers or the self-employed. i am aware that there are a number of proposed amendments on the house's table. our votes should ensure that these amendments improve this legislation and benefit all european citizens. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs, who of course we have not always agreed with but i think i would like to thank them for the effort they have made to try to find something on which we can agree, perhaps even in the future.
mr president, when consumers buy new products, such as electronic articles, toys and cosmetics, they expect them to be safe. unfortunately this is not always the case, and many times, the products placed on the market are not safe, but dangerous and harmful. safe products are the only products that should be sold on the market, irrespective of whether they are sold by traditional or online means, and it does not matter whether they are manufactured in the union or not. we therefore need rules of oversight and proper enforcement of these rules, together with appropriate behaviour by manufacturers and traders, which comply with the rules and standards that already exist. above all, we need european legislation that is capable of protecting consumers from potentially dangerous products. today i voted in favour of legislation that will lead to many important improvements to market surveillance in relation to products and consumer safety, so that we have a fairer single market. the new rules will protect health and environmental interests, along with consumer safety.
the rapporteur. mr president, when i was entrusted with the work on the draft law on the european border and coast guard, no one thought that we could all be together here today, less than six months after the european commission put this proposal on the table. this process was intensive and took a lot of time, to discuss the technical details offered by this law. but thanks to the will of my colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission and the member states led by the presidency of the council, we have agreed on a new system that we can all be proud of. throughout our negotiations we have always kept in mind that we must be fair to those who deserve protection, firm with those who are ineligible or who are trying to break the rules, and tough with those who are being served by people who are vulnerable. if we vote to confirm this law later today, it means that against all expectations, we will be able to overcome the last hurdle to have a new force of ten thousand border guards and operational personnel, which will come into force shortly in the coming years. these are the numbers we need to ensure the security of our external borders, to give the boost we need to fight crime, to ensure fundamental rights are upheld in all the agency's activities, and to facilitate the management of immigration. ensuring the security of the external borders and that member states fulfil their responsibilities are crucial in order to be able to effectively address the current migration situation. this law is not the only solution we need in this area, but it is a necessary step to be taken, along with others. in the event of another crisis similar to the one we had in 2015, member states at the external borders, such as malta and gozo, may request the deployment of staff for rapid border interventions, in order to receive much-needed assistance to address the situation. the regulation we have negotiated in recent weeks does not deal only with these ten thousand people. this law means that we will increase the effectiveness of return operations considerably, specifically for those persons who are not eligible for protection. there will be more possibilities to assist member states in this area, such as in the identification of irregular migrants, and in the assistance to be provided to obtain travel documents and other return assistance. finally, i am particularly proud that we have succeeded in creating a new role within the agency, that of fundamental rights monitors, who will be at the forefront of ensuring that the rights of every person are respected. our aim was to establish new and high levels of protection, in line with the european values we hold dear, even on such a sensitive issue. we did so because the european union must be one that protects fundamental rights when they are needed most.
mr president, i too wanted to take part in the debate which very much welcomes the proposal for this regulation. i believe that this response to give clear rules for the european border and coast guard is necessary. personally, i'd be in favor of this institution going full steam ahead as soon as possible, but i understand there's a certain transitional time period. i would also like to add to the debate that, in addition to clearer rules for the external border and its protection for the future, it would be appropriate to launch other instruments with which we want to prevent further migration crises and waves that threaten europe. that is to say, there certainly needs to be clear protection of the external border, but there also needs to be preventive measures for those who come to the border, what alternatives to offer them and so on. that is, there was a special fund set up for africa that was supposed to invest in places with potential opportunities and sources of migration. these are things that are a little bit off, and we should be developing them alongside border protection.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to express my thanks to honourable members for this very important debate and mostly for their support. the new european border and coast guard regulation, as i said during my introductory remarks, is a game-changer in terms of effectiveness on how the european union collectively protects its common external borders and manages migratory flows in the coming decades. that was our ambition: for europe to be better prepared for the future because we don’t know what the future will hold for us. this is a major step forward and we – all in this room – can be proud of what we have achieved. it is part of our common legacy. both the agency, and of course the member states, will have the tools to anticipate and respond to future crises at the eu’s external borders. i strongly hope that you will support the final outcome of the negotiations during the votes later on. we need to show our citizens that europe cares and works in their interests, and that they can trust europe. i won’t say goodbye to you yet because we have one more debate in a few minutes, which will be the last one.
the rapporteur. thank you to each and every one of you for participating in this debate on this law that will make a big difference to how the external borders will be managed. i think you will agree with me that there is agreement in this house that we should keep internal borders open so that european citizens can remain free to travel within the european union. we can only ensure this if our external borders are protected in the best possible way. we have done this with the european border and coast guard act. through this law we found solutions to many issues that had to be addressed. we are providing the agency with the human, financial and technical resources that the agency needs. we are ensuring that the agency continues to respect fundamental rights in all its activities so that the agency can give its necessary assistance in the field of return, to strengthen cooperation with third countries. we also agreed on a statement for the commission to change its staff regulations, the staff, in order to increase the attractiveness of this agency. in conclusion, we have promised european citizens that we will conclude the negotiations on this law by the end of this legislature. this promise has been kept because we have been able to bring about results that are so desired by everyone. i would like to thank all my colleagues who made this possible: the commission, the council and in particular all the shadow rapporteurs who have come here today also thank you for your willingness to close the legislative process later today. we had a goal and we achieved it. we wanted to make a positive change and we succeeded. this is a win for europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, bas eickhout, for his work to get this deal. i know that this was not an easy file, and it is very positive that we have yet another policy in place to reduce co2 emissions, because for far too long we had no standards for heavy duty vehicles, fully aware that these trucks have a major impact on global warming and that their climate impact is expected to further increase if we remain with the ‘business as usual’ scenario. it is high time that the eu adopts binding co2 targets for heavy duty vehicles. now moving from the commission’s original position, and agreeing to binding targets was a tough job, and negotiating with the council about introducing a zlev benchmark was definitely an achievement. i know this far too well. allow me also to thank our s&d shadow rapporteur, damiano zoffoli, for his strong contribution and for his role in ensuring a good compromise was reached. parliament’s position set the right ambition, something that we strongly need in order to be in line with our climate commitments, and i believe that the future for cleaner vehicles, including trucks, will be driven by innovation. it is only strong incentives for the production of low-emission and zero-emission vehicles that will ultimately push this change. this is what we aim to deliver with our work and i look forward to further work in the years to come.
on behalf of the s&d group. tomorrow's vote marks the end of the legislative process designed to set up a european market for covered bonds, as covered loan notes are known. in this house we started the process in 2017 with a resolution that laid the basis for our work on the package before us today. it was not easy to reach an agreement because in each country these loan certificates developed differently. they constitute a financial instrument that has proved its worth over the centuries on the markets of european countries. although they are spread over national markets, international trade in these certificates is important. in markets such as germany and denmark they are rightly regarded as vital for investment. in other countries such as malta, nothing is used. however, the political challenge to establish a european framework for these certificates as part of the establishment of a european union in the capital markets was this. should we put everyone in the same shoes - as we are often tempted to do when things are decided in strasbourg and brussels - or should we adopt a model that allows the full continuation of arrangements that have been successfully introduced in national markets? from the beginning, i have supported this path to the end. we did not have to change methods that national markets had adopted for decades and centuries. and yet we were able to set up a european framework. this was to aim at progressively approximating rules and practices in national markets. the compromise reached in the documents before us fully responds to this challenge. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of the republic of moldova, the president of moldova, the president of moldova, the president of moldova, the president of moldova, the president of moldova, while promoting convergence at european level and enhancing transparency and investor protection, the package before us avoids any serious disturbance in the national markets where covered bonds are traded. i am satisfied with the way we have achieved these priorities and my advice is that this house should strongly support the proposal before us.
in writing. – this house has recently been making increasing use of its investigative rights with special and inquiry committees following major scandals. the taxe committee, established after luxleaks, or the emis committee focusing on emission measurements in the automotive sector, showed the parliament’s ability to contribute significantly to the european public debate. exercises have been carried to understand how and why such maladministration and breaches of eu law have been happening and subsequent policy options to tackle them have been proposed. the first taxe committee set out ideas for transparent taxation across the eu and called for a legislative proposal on country-by-country reporting of companies’ profits, tax and subsidies, about which the commission announced its plans a few months later. one would have expected this parliament, especially with regard to the recent taxe 3 committee, to deploy the best available methodologies and proceedings in its evaluation of taxation policies and financial services. rather, it has given in to facile stigmatisation of certain countries, notably my country malta, business sectors and professions. in such a case, the limits of this house’s investigative rights were quickly reached as soon tax populism and generalised statements replaced objective proceedings. unfortunately this deeply questions the credibility and effectiveness of the parliament’s right of inquiry.
member of the commission. – mr president, 20 years ago, the commission adopted its first strategy on endocrine disruptors. we can be proud of the progress we have achieved together since then. we are recognised today as one of the global leaders in dealing with these substances. since 1999, we have banned or restricted many endocrine disruptors. furthermore, we have been the first to establish regulatory criteria to identify endocrine disruptors in the legislation on pesticides and biocides. we have also provided funding for research and have supported international organisations. however, this is not enough. today, endocrine disruption is still a global challenge and a source of concern for many citizens. we cannot rest on our laurels and we need to step up our approach. this is why, last november, the commission adopted its comprehensive communication on endocrine disruptors. adoption by the commission confirms that we remain committed to protecting eu citizens and the environment. it also delivers on the commitment undertaken when working on the criteria for pesticides and biocides. the eu approach to endocrine disruptors needs to remain based on science and on the application of the precautionary principle. we have three objectives in mind. first, minimising overall exposure to endocrine disruptors. second, accelerating the development of science; and third, promoting an active dialogue with all stakeholders. the commission has identified a comprehensive set of actions with different timelines to achieve these objectives. these are outlined in our communication and i am pleased to inform you that work has started on all of them. the cross-cutting fitness check on endocrine disruptors should be finalised in the first half of 2020, with a 12-week public consultation planned for this year. in 2019, we also aim to organise the first meeting of our annual stakeholder forum and to launch a new web portal. other actions announced in our communication have a long time frame, for example in the area of supporting research. honourable members, i know that some of you are disappointed by the idea of the fitness check. i can assure you that we are not simply trying to kick the can down the road. we are all committed to evidence-based policy-making and evaluations and the fitness check helps us make better policies. today we have different approaches to tackle endocrine disruptors in different sectors. the commission agrees that there should be coherence in the treatment of these substances. however, before proposing changes to the legislation we need to see whether and what changes are necessary. different treatment of the same substance does not mean incoherent treatment per se. we have already undertaken some useful evaluations, but none of these has covered all of the relevant issues. furthermore, we need to look at some issues in a cross-cutting way, such as the criteria to identify endocrine disruptors and the different regulatory consequences. the fitness check will fill this gap and will pay special attention to those pieces of legislation that regulate products used in the daily life of consumers, including the most valuable ones. i’m thinking, for example, of the legislation on toys, cosmetics and food contact materials. evidently the fitness check will not start from scratch, but will build on data already collected in the previous evaluation. we want to finish this quickly so that the new commission will have the information at hand to make an informed decision. before concluding, i would like to say a few words about the significant work that the commission services carry out on a daily basis to implement existing policies that are relevant for endocrine disruptors. these are in many cases particularly important to protect vulnerable consumers. just to give two examples: the commission is finalising a priority list of potential endocrine disruptors used in cosmetics for swift assessment and possible follow-up regulatory action; and second, in the area of food contact materials, we are waiting for further scientific advice in bisphenol a (bpa) and fatalities, and we are ready to act as soon as this is finalised. i am confident that by advancing coherently in all relevant policy areas, we will achieve the objective that we all share. i’m looking forward to hearing from you on this topic, and thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, postponing concrete action to regulate endocrine disruption is not a luxury we can afford. these chemicals are present in many products and materials around us, including plastic bottles, children’s toys, cosmetics and food packaging. europe must do everything possible to phase out dangerous substances, particularly those with endocrine disrupting properties. but in order to do so, we need the political will and we need concrete action. we feel that the european commission did too little too late, because we have the strategic framework. however, there is still a lack of concrete action to provide full protection for human health and the environment. we are saying this because, even with the strategy, we are still excluding, for example, toys and cosmetics, and this only leads to a fragmented patchwork of different national standards, which makes it difficult for everyone, both for consumers, who do not know what level of protection they can expect, and also for producers, who suffer from diverging standards. we need a european course of action, and it needs to put people’s health and the environment first. we expect the european commission to expand the scope to address endocrine-disrupting chemicals also in materials and products such as toys, cosmetics and food packaging. as socialists and democrats, we are pushing for a legal framework that can help protect our citizens. we are also asking for a horizontal definition of e disease that is aligned with the who’s definition. we believe that people have the right to know that their everyday environment and the products they use are not harmful to their health, and on behalf of the socialists and democrats i call on the european commission to acknowledge the european parliament’s resolution and our legitimate concerns, as it is time to phase out endocrine disruptors once and for all.
mr president, let me say that the comments about democracy made from the now empty benches at the back over there lead me to point out that you, ms von der leyen, will only take office if approved by a majority in this parliament, whereas next week, in britain, a new prime minister will take office without the need for any affirmative votes in parliament. it’s a shocking contrast. but will you get a majority? you are asking this parliament, after all, to back down from one of its principles – the spitzenkandidat – to which it was strongly attached, so you have had to make serious concessions, movements to what we in this parliament demand, and you have made a number. what you said on policy is significant. what you said on a right of legislative initiative is important. and, may i add, that what you said on brexit is important – that you would accept the need for a deadline extension for good reasons. well, let me tell you, there is a good reason, and that reason is that the british public is changing its mind on brexit. a majority of people elected to this parliament recently are against brexit. opinion polls are moving. every opposition party in the house of commons now, every single one of them, wants a new referendum. keep that door open.
candidate commission president. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this lively discussion. it was constructive, it was controversial, and if there’s any proof needed that democracy in europe is alive and kicking, you brought that proof in this parliament today and i thank you for that. indeed, it has been mentioned many, many times that we had only two weeks to get to know each other. i’m here. it is a great honour for me to have had the opportunity to present the programme. of course, we know that a speech is just a speech. it’s limited. but i think you have received today in your offices the guidelines that i laid out to all of us; so written down are details on the topics: a climate-neutral europe in 2050, a more social and competitive europe, a europe that makes use of its full potential, a europe that has a new push on european democracy and a strong europe that protects our european way of life. i am aware, when i listen to you and many, many arguments that there is the feeling of a division between central—eastern europe and western europe. we have to overcome that division. i’m full of respect when i think of the effort that the central european and the eastern european countries undertook and undertake to join the european union, to join schengen, to join the eurozone, and i think when they meet the criteria, this has to be rewarded. i’m aware of the fact that there is still a certain division between south and north. i think i’ve elaborated extensively about how we could overcome that, how we find the right balance between responsibility and flexibility and the investment and growth that is needed, and where we will work together. i want to involve and be in closer toucher with this european parliament and that’s why i support the right of initiative. that’s why i believe we need to find sound ways to anchor the spitzenkandidat system. i’m convinced we’re able to do that. i want to build new trust. i want to build a partnership between the european commission and the european parliament. i am your natural ally, if i may put it that way, and at the very end, before we’re going to go to the vote tonight, let me end with a saying that comes, once again, from a greek statesman. he was one of the founders of democracy and i think it’s a wonderful motto for our common work. he says, ‘the secret to happiness is freedom; the secret to freedom is courage’. let’s have courage together. let’s be courageous on the european union. (applause)
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – this week we saw a new direction and a promise of an ambitious programme with guarantees for a better europe for the next five years. we saw a candidate truly committed to giving european citizens a leading and active role in building the future of our union. ursula von der leyen committed herself to many areas of great importance. the one that mattered most in the european elections was climate change and i welcome her practical approach to that. she pledged to reconcile the social and modern market economy in the interests of our citizens. she committed to an action plan to fully implement the european pillar of social rights and different measures in order to achieve a more social, fair and equal european union. last but not least, ursula von der leyen pledged for a fresh new start in migration with a new pact on migration and asylum and the relaunch of dublin. these are all steps in the right direction. however, migration should be a priority on the commission’s agenda, where legislative proposals, such as the dublin regulation, are enacted and become law. and we, the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, will be pushing for that.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank you for your introduction and for your initiative in presenting the concrete commitments of the future commission in areas of great importance to us and to our citizens. the eu has always been distinguished by its special focus on social policy. a sustainable, comprehensive and fair european social policy, guaranteeing gender equality and the protection of the most vulnerable, is the cornerstone without which citizens' confidence in europe and its values is hard to imagine. i am very pleased to see your clear commitment to take concrete action to protect poor and socially vulnerable children by establishing the european child guarantee, which we, the socialists and democrats, have initiated. europe must take concrete action to combat youth unemployment, violence against women and children, ensuring protection for victims and accountability for perpetrators, and full implementation of the istanbul convention in all member states. i hope very much, mr president-in-office, that the commitments you have made will soon be translated into concrete proposals that will strengthen the pillar of european social policy and ensure a fairer, safer and more socially responsible europe.
in writing. – as we speak, a new european commission is slowly forming. the time is ripe for the creation of a new role: that of a eu commissioner tasked with being the voice of children from across all member states. as a union, work has already begun on measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion, issues that still plague over 20 million individuals who are not yet 18 years of age. emphasis on child policies, as well as the implementation of a child guarantee, among others, are positive steps, but do not go far enough. the current situation still denies children access to basic needs such as healthcare and education. this should not be the case in our flourishing, thriving societies. dedicated high-level figures are key in our fight against child poverty and exclusion, and will be important allies in the promotion of effective, child-friendly, legislative measures. to this end, i am proud to have signed eurochild’s petition for the new role of eu child commissioner, and i thus urge the future president of the european commission to take heed of this call for action, and appoint a passionate person with a specific portfolio on children’s rights. we must act now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will consider seven word messages. spontaneous speech
mr president, i will start with some simple facts: the amazon forest produces 20% of the world’s oxygen in our atmosphere. more than a million indigenous lives are currently in danger. deforestation fires have burned the amazon for decades; fires have increased by 85% under the current bolsonaro government. the amazon is not the only region being destroyed. there are no ordinary fires; the destruction of the amazon will rapidly accelerate global warming, increase the overall temperature of the planet, and destroy biodiversity and indigenous life within the forest. what are we doing while the amazon forest burns to the ground? are we just going to sit and watch in horror while our planet burns? no. we need to act, and the need to act was yesterday. i want to ask the commission: what is the strategy here? what is eu doing to protect and tackle forest fires worldwide? what actions and financial support can be offered to stop and control these fires?
madam president, this week we saw the british prime minister hide from british citizens in luxembourg, who will be acutely affected by his bombast and ego. he’s hiding from parliamentary debate in westminster. so it’s reassuring that european democracy is alive and well in this house, with all views expressed, those that i agree with and those that i don’t agree with. there are those who campaigned for a deal in 2016 – the best and quickest deal in history – who today are arguing for a so-called clean-break brexit. there is no such thing. there will be nothing clean in the economic and social devastation this would bring, from the north-east of england to the falkland islands. nothing clean for citizens’ rights, which should be ring-fenced now to protect people; and there will be nothing clean in the complete chaos in our health service and elsewhere. those people have no mandate and the british public should decide what happens next with brexit. (applause)
chief negotiator. mr president, i may be brief, but i would nevertheless like to take a minute to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of president juncker and the whole negotiating team, which i have had the honour of leading for the last three years. this debate is important. it is situated, we all understand it well, with our different opinions, a few times, as a moment of truth. three years after the referendum, we are in a moment of truth in this negotiation. it is a serious time, when we must remain extremely calm and respectful of each other. i'll keep working like this. i would like to thank you, however, for your speeches. we have listened carefully to all those who have spoken, particularly the irish and northern irish members of parliament, on the most serious issue, the one where there are the greatest risks, as i said earlier, caused by brexit and then the question of the citizens and the issue on which we will never compromise, the integrity of the single market and the four freedoms that go together. thank you for your comments. i also listened to all those who spoke in the other direction. there is one charge i want to answer so that things, once again, are clear. i say to mr zanni, who is not here, mr farage, mr madison and others: no one is trying to circumvent the decision of a majority of british citizens to leave the union. no one did. nobody is trying to steal brexit. no one is trying to keep the united kingdom in the european union, the customs union or the single market against its will. it's your responsibility to leave. we regret it, as we have said dozens of times, many of us regret it - i have never seen the added value - but we respect it. the mandate given to me by the european council and parliament, and which i assume on behalf of the commission, with the confidence of president juncker and soon of ursula von der leyen, is to find an agreement. but that requires two things, ladies and gentlemen. first, to tell the truth - here in parliament, and to the citizens - about the consequences of brexit. you must tell the truth. you spoke of respect for british citizens: british citizens, like other european citizens, have a right to the truth about the consequences of brexit. all the consequences, which are much more serious, much more numerous than you care to say. you owe this truth and you will be held accountable. after brexit, you will have to answer to the people, as we will have to answer to them. so we are preparing to tell this truth, we have always told this truth, about the consequences of a brexit with a deal - which we are working on - and, of course, with the more serious consequences of a brexit without a deal. however, i am answering mr newton dunn's question in particular, as we have done for others, we have prepared the hypothesis of a no-deal brexit, including on security and cooperation with europol. obviously no deal is not a destination, it is a temporary state and then we will have to resume the discussion to build a partnership. so i have worked for three years with this first requirement: always tell the truth to everyone. the second requirement is very simple: legal solutions. because we are making a pact, we are not making a speech, we are not making a declaration, we are making a pact. we must find serious legal answers to all the questions raised by the separation you have chosen, which is brexit, in ireland as well as in all the other areas, fisheries and many others, and find concrete and operational solutions. not intentions, not wishes, but concrete, operational solutions. that is what we expect from prime minister boris johnson and his team: alternative proposals, as president juncker has said, so that if the backstop or other issues are challenged, we can answer the questions raised by brexit. that's the second requirement i work with. we are prepared to continue day and night, no one must doubt our availability. and as far as i am concerned, as long as i am trusted, i will continue to work on behalf of the union with this responsibility, this sincerity and this determination.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, in spite of all the current uncertainty on the uk side, we have to remain open to new ideas, should they lead to a breakthrough consistent with our principles. achieving an orderly withdrawal of the uk has to remain our priority until the very last moment, given the negative consequences of a hard brexit. until then, we have to continue our preparation for all eventualities, including through targeted measures at eu level, in order to reduce the potential impact on citizens and businesses. however, we must also be ready to consider the extension of the article 50 period if we receive a duly motivated request from the uk government. may i remind you that patience is a virtue. we will count on your cooperation at all the stages of these processes. thank you very much for your opinions and remarks and for your attention.
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 september 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. from what you have said, mr president of the commission, it does not appear that more progress has been made since the appointment of the new prime minister of the united kingdom and that more clarity has been given on the details of the withdrawal. the situation remains extremely tense and uncertain as the united kingdom approaches the date for its withdrawal from the european union. i fully agree with you that the situation, which has lasted for more than two years, is causing great stress for business and for our citizens. the european union is indeed showing great solidarity and is making a great effort to ensure that brexit has the least negative impact on both the united kingdom and the european union itself, but we also welcome the same approach from the united kingdom. the commission has done a great deal of work in its proposals on brexit. i am the rapporteur for the european globalisation adjustment fund, which will be ready to provide assistance to eu citizens who have lost their jobs as a result of brexit. i very much hope that with very little time left, a rational solution is possible and that we avoid a no-deal brexit.
in writing. – brexit is an unprecedented and regrettable event, which unfortunately, due to a sequence of wrong decisions by the uk government, is turning into a negative epoch for the british political system. however, as a socialist i must prioritise the needs of the millions of eu citizens working and studying in the uk, whose rights and well—being this parliament is duty—bound to protect, with or without a deal. in this light and despite the fact that politically the ball is in the uk government’s court, i firmly believe that our intentions and efforts should be directed to break the deadlock and not allow a no—deal brexit. we ought to provide legal certainties to our people instead of leaving our businesses importing/exporting to uk with questions on customs and our expats with unresolved status, whilst inducing the risks of a hard irish border. if this parliament intends to follow reason in this case, especially following the uk parliament’s act on 9th september 2019, an extension of talks is the reasonable path we ought to take to safeguard the well—being of millions of persons along with the smooth continuation of european enterprises’ operations.
mr president, let me say it as it is, because the wording of this resolution in places is mealy-mouthed. on the issue of citizens’ rights and the protection of eu nationals in the uk, that is not just a cause of concern. the treatment of those people has been a total disgrace and it brings shame on my country, the country that i love, the country equally loved by those eu nationals who have made their homes, set up businesses, worked in our public services and paid taxes in the uk for decades. they deserve better than this shambolic ‘settled status’ scheme. so my message to those eu nationals in the uk who i’m proud to represent in the east midlands, and to friends from across the other member states here, is: my country is better than this. those eu nationals deserve better than this.
mr president, i’d like to explain why i voted in favour of a resolution which supports the brexit agreement already negotiated between the uk and the eu, but remains stuck in the uk parliament. it is because this resolution also keeps open the possibility of the uk reviewing its position through a people’s vote, or indeed a change of government. it does this by supporting a further extension of article 50 for the uk to consider its position. a no—deal brexit would be a disaster for the british farming industry and for british farmers. ninety—seven percent of our lamb exports are to the eu27, and we also export considerable levels of beef, cereals and other foodstuffs. losing this marketplace would not be in the interest of my constituents. my first duty, therefore, is to prevent a no—deal brexit. then, to go on to secure continued uk membership of the european union.
mr president, i don’t want a managed brexit: i want to stop brexit. in this house we stand for european values that i regard also as british and liberal values. we stand for an economy that benefits all. we stand for environmental measures that protect all. i don’t want my country to be shut out of the rooms where decisions about the future of our continent will be made. i don’t want my country to run away from the issues facing our continent. i want us to be at the heart of the european union. i want us to be a leader, not a leaver. my view is simple and blunt: bollocks to brexit! (hubbub)
mr president, as the brexit deadline looms over our heads, concerns and risks of having a disorderly no-deal exit of the uk are becoming a sad and lousy reality. no agreement would be a recipe for disaster – a catastrophe that should be avoided. unfortunately, the uncertainties and political instabilities are growing by the hour. our first priority in this situation remains to safeguard the rights and choices of the eu citizens resident in the uk and the british citizens resident in the eu. a hard brexit would economically be highly damaging to business, threatening thousands of jobs, both in the uk and in the union. our second priority must be to assist business and workers to ensure that burdens and costs are kept at a minimum. finally, the highly damaging implications that a no-deal exit would have for the border between northern ireland and ireland should be kept to a minimum. working together to undertake all reasonable efforts and engage in constructive dialogue to avoid a no-deal scenario must always come before petty party politics.
madam president, today i wanted to focus in particular on children because every case of cancer in children is heartbreaking. but in the countries of the european union, cancer is the disease that is killing our children the most. now, despite the positive developments that have taken place overall, unfortunately little progress has been made to prevent the loss of life in cases that are more difficult to treat. we are losing too many children and adolescents to this disease. we live in a european union where there are substantial inequalities between member states in terms of access to the best care and even the best expertise. and this gap is so large that we still have a twenty percent difference in the rates of success in conquering the disease between the different countries of the european union. therefore, we need european cooperation on research and innovation in the field of health; the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. and if a disease is considered rare in one country, it may have a much better chance of being properly addressed at european level so that we do not continue to lose more people and more children unnecessarily.
madam president, i want to begin first of all by thanking the commissioner for his passionate work in the area of health and well-being, and those of us who have worked with you, commissioner, know that to be absolutely true, right to the end. this debate is very timely and it’s been quite sad in many respects to listen to colleagues who have spoken of their own experience of a loved one that has died from cancer. it’s timely because on saturday of this week, i will be speaking at a conference in my own constituency organised by the north east cancer research and education trust (necret), and this is the sixth annual gathering, giving information and support to families and individuals who are undergoing cancer treatment. this necret, as it is called, is involved in fundraising and supporting the unit in the local hospital so that they will have the necessary facilities and equipment to treat people. i think when it comes to cancer we know that many member states run checks, breast checks, checks for colon cancer, for cervical cancer, and we need to make sure that best practice prevails in all member states. and the beauty of the european union is that we can compare one with the other and help each other to raise the standards. but i want to mention, as i started with, this day on saturday, this north east cancer research and education trust which my neighbour and friend elizabeth summersby, who is an advanced nurse practitioner in the oncology unit in our lady of lourdes hospital, is the heart and soul of and to really salute those people who look after those who suffer from cancer and go beyond what they’re required to do and work to make sure that their lives are made better and that they’re looked after well.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened with great interest to these discussions. i am grateful for your valuable insights and engagement. i am very happy to hear so many of you using the words solidarity, fairness, justice and social equality. these are important remedies for all of us. also, prevention is better than cure, and it will be good to know that we need to do more at eu level and it will be good to see more pan-european flags and fewer national flags in this room because we need solidarity, unity and understanding. i would like to thank ms ries and ms mcguinness for their kind words. the pleasure was mine. as i mentioned, we are evaluating the orphan regulation and the eu regulation on medicines for children. we are aiming for publication at the beginning of 2020. mr gonzález mentioned e—cigarettes and vaping. we see this story in the united states. i remember our discussions when we discussed issues about tobacco product directives and we proposed to regulate e—cigarettes much more strongly. now we see evidence and of course it is clear that these products are a threat to citizens’ health. we will need to work on it. i have heard the words endocrine disruptors, pesticides and carcinogens. these are all part of the solution and i am happy to see them in both the mission letters for the health and the environment commissioners. this means that the next commission will do more in this field. finally, even the brexit party seems to understand the damage that can be done to patients if we do not fight disease together, uniting our forces, which means that brexit really creates damage. thank you very much indeed for understanding. don’t leave your patients in limbo! there was a comment on breast cancer. the european breast cancer guidelines and a quality assurance scheme for breast cancer services are part of a european initiative. this initiative is person-centred and provides various recommendations, and of course genomic and epigenomic research, as ms bunting mentioned, is indeed very important. i am a medical doctor and i could not agree more. as i mentioned in my introduction, we are working on 1+ million genomes and of course we need to do more. europe is committed to implementing the united nations sustainable development goals. this includes reducing premature mortality from chronic diseases such as cancer by one third by 2030. to do that we need prevention measures which are common to all the eu countries. they can impact on individual citizens and society in a way that isolated national initiatives could not achieve. many cancers are challenging the medical community with their complexity and many cancers are rare diseases for which pooling data at eu level has a clear benefit and the european reference network now shows very positive results. this is a good way and we are going in the right direction. i believe that the eu is best placed to disseminate knowledge and to identify and scale up best practices across member states. the proposal for new cancer plans for the eu, as envisaged by the new president, ursula von der leyen, offers a major opportunity to take the next big step forward towards beating cancer in europe. therefore, i have no doubt that the commission will continue its efforts in cancer prevention and control, of course assessing the situation based on what was done by the previous commission. i am very happy to hear that we have a lot of like—minded friends around. together our work will benefit patients, their families and health services across europe and that is a worthy goal.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank the honourable members for this very useful and timely debate on fighting cancer. cancer is a tragedy at a personal level: a fight you could lose in spite of your own strong will and the best help of professionals. in this fight against cancer, as politicians and as institutions of the eu, we should use all the eu tools available. let me reiterate that the finnish presidency stands ready to cooperate with the european parliament to raise awareness of the challenges that cancer represents for europe and for europeans. our own initiative, the concept of the economy of well-being, is something which also delivers in the fight against cancer. it is important to support research. from that point of view, the provisional agreement on including a cancer mission in the future horizon europe is essential and the presidency firmly supports that. so thank you again for this very important discussion and thank you for your engagement.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – cancer is the second leading cause of mortality in europe after cardiovascular diseases. each year, more than 3 million people are diagnosed with cancer. cancer does not discriminate ... it affects any gender, young or old alike. much has been achieved in health policy at eu level, but not enough! there is an urgent need to reduce inequalities for fast, safe and affordable access to surgery, radiotherapy and medicines. cross-border collaboration is a key issue to ensure increased access to innovative treatment for cancer patients, regardless of where they reside. we have to promote survivorship programmes as an essential part of cancer care at all levels. it is essential to promote healthy lifestyles and reduce exposure to risk factors, in order to prevent as many cancers as possible. we need a european plan to beat cancer together in order to reduce health gaps in the prevention and control areas between and within eu member states and to increase the benefits for cancer patients and their families!
mr. president, the iranian people have a long and glorious history. they're an ancient people, and we should demand even more respect for women. isn't it a paradox -- and i say this as a historian -- that 40 or 50 years ago, under shah reza pahlavi, women in iran had more rights than they do today. there's been a setback here, it's sad. of course, when we talk about women's rights in iran, we should especially listen to the voices of women who have been in iran, who have left iran, and who are testifying to some truth about what is happening there. we have also had a number of conferences in the european parliament with women like that, including mrs raj. let us also remember those who are iranians for iran and citizens of our countries for the member states of the union - those who have dual citizenship. we must remember all of them and we must protect their rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 70% of iranian women are against the strict dress code in the country. this is according to a study by the state parliamentary research center of iran itself. more and more women are protesting against laws of forced veiling and defending the right of every woman to decide what she wants to wear without fear of harassment, violence or even imprisonment. since january 2018, dozens of women's rights activists, including men, have been arrested and treated as criminals. peaceful protest is a human right and a part of every society. four brave women saba kord-afshari, mojgan keshavarz, yasaman aryani and monireh arabshahi have peacefully protested against iran's discriminatory veiling law and have been sentenced to scandalously 16 to 24 years in prison. this is not acceptable, this is not acceptable. we demand the immediate release of these women's rights activists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. women in iran are subject to massive discrimination in almost all spheres of society. this is true, among other things, of the legal system in iran, i.e. the sharia, which also provides for the death penalty. the clerical dictatorship is based on male domination by islamic fundamentalists and their hatred of women. this excludes gender equality and the rights of minorities and dissidents. the cases of the iranian women activists illustrate the abomination of such a system. decades of imprisonment and dozens of lashes for women who speak out for human rights are unacceptable! all this shows that as long as this clerical dictatorship prevails, in which women are violently oppressed, the conditions for peaceful coexistence of the states in the middle east are not present.
mr president, allow me to start by expressing my deepest respect for, and solidarity with, all iranian human rights defenders. i’m especially touched by the bravery of iranian women, who choose such a peaceful way to claim their rights, giving flowers to other women in underground trains and discussing their rights. to some extent it reminds me of our peaceful resistance to the soviet occupation, especially with the baltic way – only we achieved freedom, while iranian colleagues have been sentenced to prison, with sentences of unimaginable length. the impact of continuing human rights violations and the suppression and intimidation of opposition and journalists has long overreached the borders of iran. it causes regional instability and threatens global security and the economy. i call on the iranian government to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with international human rights standards and international instruments ratified by that country. i also urge the council to review the european position on iran by considering additional sanctions.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of women in iran is extremely difficult. they have to fight for basic rights. stoning is one of the methods of execution provided for by islamic criminal law. when they are raped, they are punished as much as the rapist. deprived of the right to vote and legally forced to wear the hijab, iranian women need support. iranian women's rights defenders, including eu citizens, are sentenced to long prison terms for actions that do not even have the hallmarks of a crime. the pretext for such punishments is, for example, contact with representatives of the european union, the un or contact with the media. the iranian government is seeking closer relations with the european union, and should be called upon to respect human rights, stop criminalizing the defence of women's rights, and respect the rights of eu citizens.
women are human beings and as such have inalienable rights. they cannot accept it, it is where it is, and since we believe in the rule of law, we protect those fundamental rights everywhere, including beyond european borders. while we understand and protect socio-cultural and religious differences, we never understand that these are used as a deterrent to the free enjoyment of iranian women's rights. we never understand the focused attack on activists and professionals who daily strive for a free society. my pride that a country, malta, has fully implemented the istanbul convention against violence against women. i am even more determined to join my colleagues in calling for the iranian authorities to make the necessary legal reforms to criminalize gender-based violence and discrimination against women.
mr president, according to statistics, europe accounts for a quarter of the world's cancer cases: 3.91 million cases for 2018 and 1.93 million cancer deaths for the same year. we must therefore move very quickly and that is why we have called for this debate today. we have asked for this debate to prepare ourselves, as citizens first and foremost and as family members, to deal with cancer. we asked for this conversation to look cancer in the eye, to ask for information, to ask for prevention and, ultimately, to ask for a cure. it is not reasonable, when we have 25% of cancer cases, to spend just 3% of the available resources. it is not intended that member states should not make use of research funded by european resources, such as the 24 european reference networks for the monitoring of rare cancers. let me ask my country, greece, to join and support this initiative, as we cannot afford to remain outside. finally, i would like to appeal to everyone in this chamber, and to all colleagues who are not here today 'so late': let's make dealing with this disease our own business!
mr president, my identity and democracy group voted in favour of putting this debate on cancer on the agenda. i think it is important that we show the millions of people who are suffering from this disease that we are thinking of them and that we are doing everything we can to defeat this disease. commissioner, i was moved by your testimony when you mentioned your three brothers who died of cancer. as you yourself have pointed out, we are all victims of this scourge. i myself would like to recall that i lost a very dear friend, who was called édouard ferrand and who was a member of the european parliament. he was one of our colleagues in the previous legislature; he was taken in a few months by a cancer that was thundering. fortunately, much is already being done to combat this scourge. we have talked about the fight against tobacco, the fight against people's exposure to carcinogens, many screening programmes, but i think it is important to say that we must go further. we must help the member states to combat this scourge and i am glad to hear you speak of a european plan to combat cancer, which we will of course support with all our strength, because this is not a subject... (the president withdrew from the floor)
member of the commission. – mr president, i see here all like-minded friends, and i see different political colours can join forces to really address issues on beating cancer. cancer is a major disease in europe and it is a common challenge affecting a large number of citizens in our own member states. you know, i always repeat four ‘p’s: prevention, promotion, protection. but prevention, promotion, protection of health first of all – healthiness: we need to invest more. but of course the fourth ‘p’ – participation – is very important and we need to invite all actors to participate in those issues because this is so important. prevention measures are common to all member states, but this is not enough. we need to do much more at eu level, using preventative measures to address challenges related to cancer, because national initiatives will not always be able to achieve goals, because sometimes in the single market you can see a lot of risk factors that are acting in the whole of europe, of the european union. we need more europe in prevention. europe is committed to implementing the united nations sustainable development goals. this includes reducing premature mortality from chronic diseases such as cancer by one third by 2030. we are in 2019 now. we have only 11 years to act in a more energetic way, really to reduce in one shot all cases. it’s a big task and of course people will be very happy if the european parliament, the council and member state governments do more in this case. i assure you that the commission will continue its efforts on cancer prevention and control. the proposal for a new cancer plan for the eu, as envisaged by president-elect ursula von der leyen, offers a major opportunity to take the next big step forward towards beating cancer in europe. together our work will benefit patients, their families, and healthcare and cure services, and of course public health services, in this way to really achieve big progress in this very sensitive area.
in writing. – the present consensus of this parliament and the incoming commission on the need for europe to embark on a widespread process of digitalisation and technological innovation is very positive and raises optimism, including in our collective determination to fight cancer, which has killed too many of us. innovation can only be successful if it is human—centred, and if it is human—centred it has to be a tool – if not the best tool we have – to improve treatment provided to cancer patients. it is also the key to improving our prevention strategies. the platforms to spur research and innovation are already set, especially through the horizon europe programme, which we are committed to keep bolstering robustly for years to come. within a mission approach, this programme already puts thrust behind projects aiming to mobilise citizens and improve the tools at our disposal, both in prevention and in cure. however, if we are to ever win this fight, we have to fight it effectively, and that will require this union to strengthen legislation against toxic chemicals, pesticides and emissions, while truly boosting our investment of resources.
madam president, this report speaks of a more favourable economic situation in the european union where the employment rate has continued to rise. however, wealth inequalities and income disparities have nevertheless continued to widen the gap between the rich and the poor. in-work poverty, decent living standards, quality jobs and wages are the biggest challenges we face today. today, having a job is not enough. we must ensure that the jobs we offer our citizens - they and their families - are able to live a decent life. we need a labour market policy that is aimed at improving working conditions and offering fair and quality jobs to european citizens. for the first time, through this report and the amendment i have brought forward, the european parliament will be adopting the principle of the right to digitally disconnect. this is the first, but very important, step in offering our workers a better work-life balance. at first, when i started talking about this right to disconnect, it was almost a taboo subject, but after today's vote, this principle will become an official recommendation of the european parliament. before i close, i would also like to ask for the support of each of you on the european unemployment benefit insurance scheme and on the new instrument that is expected to tackle the problem of long-term unemployment in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the company had 68 hotels in greece, i.e. 12% of greek hotels, mainly on eight islands and brought in three million tourists. according to data from the research and forecasting institute of the hellenic hotel chamber, we will have in 2020 due to the collapse of thomas cook, a loss of revenue of eur 2.5 billion. the collapse is now a systemic risk for greek tourism; some people are talking about lehman brothers of greek tourism. given the willingness on the part of the european union and the commission to allow state aid to deal with this major problem, and after we have seen the initiative taken by germany, we must, through this resolution we are discussing here today, go further, consider a wider framework of support for the economies of the countries affected, which could include state aid, tax relief, perhaps even the creation of a guarantee fund to deal with similar incidents in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam president, commissioner, if european tourism is to remain competitive, it must devise a new strategy, promoting a reduction in over-reliance on tour operators, substantial product diversification, strengthening partnerships and, above all, a strong emphasis on quality rather than numbers.
madam president, the collapse of the iconic british holiday company thomas cook is tragic and may well have been avoidable. it left 150 000 uk holidaymakers stranded – many of them children and the elderly, working class families who had worked and saved hard for a well-earned break. the collapse could cost up to 9 000 british jobs. the airline’s head office employed 450 people at manchester airport in my region. there were thousands of staff based at 17 high-street stores across greater manchester who are now being supported by the transport salaried staffs’ association (tssa) trade union. thomas cook say that the conservative government’s business secretary, andrea leadsom, did not even speak to their executives leading up to its collapse. fortunately, the 600 000 holidaymakers who were affected were protected by the eu package travel directive. it’s important that we recognise that as the tories try to take us out of the eu while watering down workers’ rights and customer protection, this safety net will not be there under a boris johnson-led government post brexit.
madam president, commissioner, thomas cook has collapsed with the same crash as a company with 22 000 employees, excluding the indirect jobs associated with it, a company with 105 airplanes and 200 hotels. this failure, in its causes and consequences, lifts the veil on the reality of a sector marked by fierce, often unfair, competition between large multinational groups and a vast network of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises struggling to survive. a sector marked by a huge precariousness of labour, by high exploitation, by low wages that contrast with the gigantic profits that the capitalists in the sector have, even when associated with ruinous management practices. others always end up paying the bill, as you can see. a sector also marked, as we have seen, by the vulnerable position of consumers. these realities must be acted upon. this bankruptcy had a significant impact in portugal, in particular in the algarve and madeira. it is important that no one should be excluded from the instruments announced here to deal with the damage caused by this bankruptcy.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this debate showed that the insolvency of thomas cook has many causes, and that a multi-faceted approach is needed, both to prevent bankruptcy and where, despite all preventive measures failure cannot be avoided, then to address the consequences. the results and lessons learned from thomas cook will inform the european commission’s implementation report on the package travel directive. such events are also moments to see where there is room for improvement, and the commission will surely look at those, and see what more we can do. clearly this debate provides valuable input to such a process. many amongst you have asked for a specific tourism policy strategy. there is a new mandate ahead of us to look into that request, and indeed to evaluate the need to outline a new strategy for tourism at the eu level within the broader framework of the horizontal policies. let me recall that under this commission’s proposals for the next mff, several programmes foresee support for tourism – for instance, the structural funds, invest eu, the single market programme, creative europe and horizon europe – and this reflects the policy of mainstreaming tourism-related investments under the diverse eu financing programmes, which makes sense in view of the inter-dependencies of tourism with other sectors of the economy.
in writing. – thomas cook’s bankruptcy has demonstrated once again the cost that normal people have to bear for the irresponsible management of companies by so-called directors. this insolvency has left 21 000 jobs in jeopardy, stranded 600 000 people abroad and sent shock waves throughout the industry. indeed, in future months, related businesses will struggle. the situation is shameful, especially if we consider that in no instance debt reduction was made a priority of the company. we must react for taxpayers and ordinary people who should not compensate for the excesses of a few directors. the eu has already shown positive efforts on these issues with the 2015 package on travel and the commission procedures on rescue and restructuring. nonetheless, we must do more. our role is to ensure member states are equipped to make whoever is responsible pay. we must make sure that the mistakes of an enterprise in one member state do not cause harm to taxpayers and other governments across the union. europe must implement legislation to avoid, pre-emptively, such dramatic events. it is paramount that workers and consumers are always protected from the collusion and the wrongdoing of big business.
madam president, last july the council and the european commission reminded us that their objective in immigration was to save lives. even then i was pointing out the discrepancy between the talk and the reality: a naval operation without ships and the increasingly deadly mediterranean. and many of us were reminded of the urgency of enforcing the law on landing and of offering decent reception conditions. yet here we are again in this house a few months later, and nothing has changed. we know, however, that there is an urgent need for a genuine european rescue operation, not only to save lives but also to allow coordinated arrivals in different european ports. until this mission is in place, ngos will have to compensate for the shortcomings of the member states, which is why it is also important to put an end to the criminalisation of those who help shipwrecked people. we have been waiting for months for the commission's guidelines on the directive on migrant aid and its humanitarian exemptions. there are solutions to create a right to save. the only thing missing is the political will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the somali-british poet warsan shire wrote: "no one puts their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land". it is clear that in europe the water is no safer than the land. the number of deaths in the mediterranean in 2018 was as much as five times higher than in the disaster year of 2015. - i've had it five times! why is that, colleagues? well, because europe is doing it wrong. we talk about european values, but we do not act on them. the number of rescue operations at sea has been reduced. some member states criminalise ngos for saving lives. these are european values upside down and these are actually practices that we would expect from trump or putin. we do not allow drowning people to drown in europe. we take responsibility. i would like to ask you, commissioner: the european union must make a real european policy on asylum work. strengthen the fight against human trafficking. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the gulf.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the malta agreement on immigrants is the usual scam against italy and once again proves the lies of the pd and 5 star government: all that fried air and no facts. in fact, unfortunately, the facts are there. in one month, pd and 5 stelle have tripled the number of illegal immigrants landing in italy, to the applause of europe. i 'm afraid it 's a movie i 've seen before . the european union has not yet been able to take action to combat the illegal immigration of refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the italians are tired of your lies and your false promises. the italians will never accept another invasion of illegals. we are ready to barricade ourselves with the citizens to defend our land and our people. we will never allow you to turn italy into the refugee camp of europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate shows that the resolution that has been formulated covers only a minimal, small aspect of the problem. and that's my problem with it, too. i'm all for search and rescue. there's no question about it. i think there is no dissent in the democratic part. but just talking about search and rescue operations will not solve the problem. because the majority of people die in the sahara. people are rarely discussed because they rarely land on our shores, because we don't see it immediately, because we don't know the images of it. and that's why most of our attention and our work needs to be on the areas in africa that we can work with to actually prevent people from landing. frontex is proving that we are search and rescue, with tens of thousands of people being rescued every day. that's not the discussion. but the solution sought by the resolution is unfortunately not a solution.
madam president, the existing european solutions are no longer adequate and certainly not sufficient to address the current crisis and the challenges we are facing as a union. on the one hand we have migrants stranded on open seas for days, and many people, including children and women, who are losing their lives on our seas. but on the other hand we have european citizens who are both offended and worried about the way in which the european union is failing to act. border countries are directly affected by immigration. they are much more vulnerable to incidents such as those we saw during the last week at the open centre of hal far in malta. the situation is escalating and we cannot sit idly by and ignore the fact that immigration is among the most pressing concerns of our citizens. if we do, we risk having an increase in extremist ideologies, the spread of hatred and violence. the european union must rise up and tackle this problem effectively through solidarity and through a common european solution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, unfortunately the human rights of lgbti people are still being violated every day all over the world, and uganda is no exception; where members of the lgbti community continue to be subjected to brutal attacks. lgbti persons have the right to equal protection and to the same rights as everyone else. at the heart of violence against the lgbti community is prejudice and hatred. we need to change our mindset if we are to succeed in avoiding these crimes. we must be brave enough to address these factors with all facets of society. it is therefore essential to defend and protect this community worldwide from all forms of violence and discrimination. we need to ensure that all people, regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity, have the right to be equal before the law without any exception. and malta is a very good example for europe. over the past six years a number of progressive laws have been introduced - from civil unions to equal adoption rights for same-sex couples. we started from the bottom and now malta is first in the ilga- europe in relation to these rights.
thank you very much, mr. ciuhodaru. i beg your pardon, but we have two and a half times as many messages as we can handle. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members... (cut off by mr patten trying to take the floor)
i'm sorry, commissioner. i was just... mr patten: i called you first because i had actually called mr tennant. he wasn't there. i had then planned mr nikolaou-alavanos as the next speaker. he wasn't in his seat, but he was there. i have no intention of giving the floor to any of the non-attached members. i've decided that now. the commissioner is speaking.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think that this debate showed very clearly that protecting and promoting the rights of the child is, here in this house and in the commission, not only a legal obligation but a moral imperative, too. and, as you rightly said on many occasions, this is a good reason for celebration, although we have to continue working towards a better implementation, not only of the convention, but also of the related legislation which should guarantee the protection of the rights of children. there is also an economic case because, according to many studies and many papers we work with, it is also one of the most valuable long-term investments our economies and societies can make. children who are disadvantaged are less likely than their better-off peers to do well in school, enjoy good health and realise their full potential later in life. the cost of responding to this in the future is much higher than investing in the wellbeing of children today. promoting and protecting the rights of all children is at the core of our obligations. let’s continue to work together to make the ambitious principles of the united nations convention on the rights of the child a reality for all children in europe and in the world.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, the un convention on the rights of the child has undoubtedly contributed to the improvement in the lives of children across the globe and the progress achieved needs to be celebrated. i thank you for this very timely debate. it shows the commitment of the european parliament. the 30th anniversary of the convention is an opportunity to celebrate our common achievements. however, a lot remains to be done – investing in children throughout their journey to adulthood is not only a moral duty but also an essential investment in a better future for all humanity. as we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the un convention, one has to bear in mind that the world has indeed changed. it is very different to 30 years ago. for instance, we had no internet then and that is the new environment for our children in which they are living. despite its possibilities, for instance in tackling loneliness or enabling online educational environments, it may also cause harmful addiction, or as mep nethsingha rightly said, it may increase the risk of sexual exploitation by ruthless predators or provide a platform for online bullying. we do enhance digitalisation but we also have to take this new challenge into account. and it’s not only parents who shall address this challenge, but also the eu, its institutions and the member states. as the poem goes, ‘to [a child] we cannot say “tomorrow”, his name is “today”.’
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the november part-session. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. today marks the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child. adopted by the united nations general assembly in 1989, the convention is a landmark document that guarantees the rights of the child and aims to ensure a safe childhood for all children worldwide. the convention affirms that every child has the right to a name and nationality, the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of colour, sex, religion, nationality, health or property, the right to health care, education and training, to rest, to privacy, to freedom of opinion and expression, and the right to be protected from violence and poverty. unfortunately, however, at both the global and european level, child poverty, violence against children, and the sexual exploitation of children are still a problem that is difficult to overcome. i would like to remind you that in the eu alone we have about 20 million children who are in or at risk of poverty, which is unjustified in the context of modern welfare. i call not only today but every day to join forces and make a collective effort to ensure that our children are safe and provided for and that the commitments set out in the convention on the rights of the child are translated into concrete action.
in writing. it is a pleasure to join you in celebrating the 30th anniversary of the signing of the un convention on the rights of the child. i would remind everyone that the signatory states are obliged to ensure that the provisions of the convention are respected. it states that states parties undertake to ensure the protection and care of the child necessary for his or her well-being and to take the necessary legislative and administrative measures to this end. this means that there are tasks that the legal representative and the state must jointly provide for the child, such as education. furthermore, the state must not only respect the rights of the child but also actively participate in their enforcement. i hope that ukraine, as a signatory to the convention on the rights of the child, will also reach the point of granting hungarian minority children the same rights to free choice of school and access to different levels of education as the majority. as an associated country of the eu, it must also respect the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. on 20 november, the anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child, we celebrate the world day for the rights of the child. this year marks some thirty years since the adoption of the un international convention on the rights of the child, but unfortunately many children around the globe are living under high-intensity global threats. poverty and hunger, wars, natural disasters, social exclusion, mass movements of refugees and migrants, discrimination and deep inequalities are, unfortunately, just some of the phenomena that cause concern. we in the european parliament stress that we will always defend the rights of the child with determination as the most important thing. we will ensure that our legislative and non-legislative work respects, promotes and protects the rights of the child and looks after the advancement of children's lives, both within the eu and in its relations with the outside world.
in writing. other 30 years ago the world recognized that if we can't agree on many things, children can unite us. we are committed to respecting the right of every child to enjoy a life in the family, while at the same time we have economies that keep people far more employed than their children. we are committed to ensuring their right to education and access to information. in 2019, however, we still have children, mostly girls, who do not know what school is, and the internet in their village does not reach. we committed to free speech and the right to respect their opinion but because a girl raised her voice about our climate-changing shortcomings, the dinosaurs came out in anger at her. we are committed to ensuring that all children live free from violence. and we still ride on the industry of fear, exporting weapons, as if it was once the bomb that brought peace. we are celebrating 30 years in earnest, taking the toughest measures - economic, environmental and social - to make the world we leave behind truly worthy of our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday this building was dyed orange in solidarity with the fight against gender-based violence against women. today, after what we have heard in this house, we should also think about the future, and paint ourselves as an institution with the colours of the rainbow in solidarity with the victims of anti-lgbtqi discrimination in poland and throughout europe. the normalisation of this sentiment, and even in the language of the institutions, is scandalous and extremely dangerous. i am thinking of my own italy, where many local authorities that have recently joined the league have left the re.a.dy network, which promotes good practice against discrimination and for the creation of a social climate of respect and confrontation free of prejudice. in spinea, in the province of venice, there have even been calls for the removal of "uncomfortable" books from children's libraries. we've already seen the results of war on degenerate culture and decadent books, we've seen where it goes. we want the european commission to take a clear line against these intolerant fundamentalisms. let 's be clear . strengthening a pluralist, inclusive and fundamental rights-respecting european society is our priority, because it is homophobia that is a disease.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. our union has been the flag-bearer of the diverse society where love is love, regardless of gender and sexuality. you don't choose to be a lgbti person. in france, same-sex relations were legalized as early as 1791. in denmark, homosexuals were able to enter into registered partnerships 30 years ago. if the eu is to be able to speak with capital letters when countries like indonesia restrict the rights of their lgbt people, then we must and must do the same when it happens in our own union. in the eu, lgbti people must not be discriminated against in the workplace. the same can and should apply to our european streets. homophobia has no place on our continent. lgbt-free zones are taking europe back to the dark ages.
madam president, because we value the individual we need to make it clear that identity is not an ideology, neither in europe nor in any civilized society is there any room for lgbti free zones. the european union must have the legal instruments to prohibit them and to penalize those who promote them. even though they are symbolic, they are dangerous, they bring hatred and hurt. they are a manifestation of discrimination and if we allow them to be normalised we are endangering the dignity, if not the lives, of people among us. but not just in one member state do we address discrimination against this lgbti community, the european union is also discriminating. the equal treatment directive only talks about sexual orientation. we still do not have european legislation covering gender identity. we still do not have european legislation covering gender expression. until we have a directive against discrimination in all spheres of life it is so important that we continue to discriminate and to degrade people in our midst.
mr. president, i have to go. dear federica, your term is coming to an end, and thank you for all the excellent work you've done. unfortunately, the debate on the situation in israel and palestine is again marked by condemnable violence, dozens of dead in the israeli forces' assault on gaza, and a continuing deterioration of the situation on the ground. the solution lies in dialogue and in the peace process, but both are completely paralyzed. they are being poisoned and crippled by the unilateral and highly damaging moves of the us and president trump, most recently with the change of attitude towards the illegal israeli settlements in the west bank. this move can also be seen as a response to the recent ruling of the court of justice of the european union, which requires europe to clearly indicate the origin of products from illegal settlements. jewish settlements are a war crime! how is it possible that the union is doing business with them? the products produced there are illegal under international law and have no place in europe. the commission should therefore act swiftly and decisively to implement the judgment today, as israel has already announced the full annexation of the occupied territory. this will be the final blow to the possibility of a peaceful solution to the palestinian question.
mr president, i'll get right to the point. israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territory are illegal under international law. the european union's position on israeli settlement policy is very clear and i hope it will remain so. the trump administration's decision to circumvent international law constitutes a significant threat to peace and security in the region. instead of coming together to find a peaceful two-state solution, this current situation continues to fuel violence and division as well as threatening the fragile viability of a two-state solution. there is and cannot be any excuse for weakening international law and therefore we need: immediate cessation of all settlement activities; the european union has also called for a ban on israeli settlement products on the european union market, otherwise we will give further economic impetus to this conflict; and also for an immediate de-escalation of the conflict in and around the gaza strip. the incitement and violence must end. people want to be safe and protected and another war must be avoided at all costs.
madam president, since the adoption of the cotonou agreement twenty years ago, the world has changed in the most significant way. our negotiations in the new acp-eu agreement should therefore deliver an ambitious and comprehensive political consensus that advances sustainable and inclusive development, and focuses on the priorities outlined, such as democracy and human rights, economic growth and investment, climate change, poverty eradication, peace and security, migration and mobility. i would also like to stress the importance of strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the future, where democratic accountability needs to be ensured at all levels. it is therefore essential that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly continue to meet twice a year in its entirety in plenary session and once a year in each of the three regions. the coming months will be crucial as we enter a new era in our relationship with the acp countries, which will also allow further developments to our relations as a 'continent to a continent' of africa.
in writing. the commission presented today a new model for growth in the european union. the green deal initiative, which is so ambitious, should help to create a fairer, safer, more sustainable, more socially responsible and prosperous society that meets the expectations of our people. but the challenges facing the european union in the areas of climate change, the transition to clean energy, clean transport and many others identified in the initiative presented will only be met successfully if we turn them into opportunities. in this forward-looking process, we must not forget the problems of people today and must be able to respond to them in an appropriate way. and to do that, we need to mobilise the political will in all the institutions, particularly in terms of fair and adequate funding, especially in the social policy areas in the next financial perspective. it will be very difficult to convince our citizens to participate in the implementation of the new economic model if they do not feel socially secure. i therefore strongly hope that the green deal will maintain a strong social dimension and that social impact assessment will be ensured across all policy areas.
in writing. it will be repeated again and again, and president trump was right to do so, although his decision to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement is not without criticism, that the west, and in particular europe, cannot bear the weight and responsibility of climate change and, therefore, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions alone. yet this is the perspective that emerges from international commitments in this area, which too often leave the lion's share to india or china. moreover, environmental intransigence locks the european union in its own contradictions. first, there are contradictions between its ambitious objectives and the reality of a contrasting territory, where some states such as poland are still heavily dependent on coal. the second is the contradiction between these same aspirations and a development model based on the primacy of free trade against the states and large international groups against small producers. the environmental future of europe and the world depends on the resolution of these fundamental dilemmas.
in writing. – i welcome the presentation of the european green deal. we have a historic opportunity ahead and i hope the european union will be up to the challenge. the european green deal will aim to make europe the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. it is indeed very ambitious, but we cannot ignore this strong need for change. i believe that the green transition will require a common effort. eu institutions, member states, local authorities, civil society, citizens, businesses: everybody is called to play their part. if we want the european green deal to deliver its ambitious results, we need to fight for adequate resources to finance it. research and innovation will be paramount in order to make sure that citizens and enterprises keep up with technological process and will be able to meet the targets the green deal is going to set. the expectations of the upcoming just transition fund are incredibly high. if we want it to succeed, we need to make sure that not only the coal regions of our union, but also its energy—intensive areas, including islands, can benefit from it. the transition to a clean planet for all must leave no one behind.
mr president, i am proud to be maltese. proud of our countries and i will never accept that because of the alleged abuse of a few, all countries, all of malta, are branded as if they were a mafia state. from the first day after this crime, the government gave all the tools to our authorities and institutions to have the resources to solve this murder. the police assisted by europol, assisted by the fbi carried out a thorough investigation. and today we have the alleged murderers and the alleged mastermind facing justice. the seriousness with which the police worked was also confirmed by the head of the european parliament delegation who was in our country two weeks ago. moreover, the courts are operating with absolute freedom on the basis of the fundamental principle of separation of powers and the rule of law. these are all clear signs that our institutions are working and looking no further so that justice is finally done and this case is resolved. i therefore believe that this resolution before us is very unfair to the situation in the countries. we recognise that no system is perfect, no country is perfect. and because i am maltese and because i love countries, i understand and i firmly believe that we have some improvements too. but the government has done and is doing a lot of work to implement and implement the recommendations of both the venice commission and the european council. as of last week, one of the key recommendations concerning the powers of the advocate general has been fully implemented. we protect justice by strengthening institutions and allowing them to operate freely. that is what we have done, and that is what we shall continue to do. (the president accepted to answer a 'blue paper' question (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question with a blue card. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we are proud of being europeans and we are proud of our member countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is being abandoned at the moment because it is exposing the country and the proud maltese people, their government. how comfortable and proud are you when it emerges from the forensic evidence that even the prime minister's chief of staff is involved in the case and continues to remain free? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
answer to blue paper. i am proud of my country, my colleague always and everywhere. i regret that the ppe group has used a lot of energy in this debate today. in other debates, for example, where there are debates on the rule of law in hungary, the enthusiasm you show that day is much, much less, your hearts are much, much less burning. i'm proud for one reason: proud of the fact that the institutions in our country are working and are not looking at anyone's face so that in the end what every maltese wants, what each of us wants happens that we see this case that shocks everyone finally be closed by making justice that does not look at anyone's face. what is being done now. and so, i say again, yes, so proud of your country!
madam president, 26 months ago the voice of daphne caruana galizia was silenced: a brave and fearless voice dedicated to fighting corruption and to standing up for human rights – for our rights – and her assassination is a blow to us all. it strikes at the heart of our society. and therefore we must fight for justice for daphne. the murderers, but also everybody else involved – the middlemen, the masterminds, those providing political cover – must be identified and prosecuted. impunity must end in malta. but how can we expect justice when there is no rule of law? how can we trust in an independent investigation as long as the prime minister continues to cling to power? can we really expect the same people that have been obstructing justice for the past 26 months, the same people that have been demolishing the memorials that were erected in honour of daphne’s memory – can we really expect these people now suddenly to lead the charge in seeking justice that the family of daphne so deserves? how naive are we exactly supposed to be? the venice commission already concluded over a year ago that the wide powers of the prime minister create a serious risk for the rule of law, and we see that risk now in malta day after day after day. and every minute longer this prime minister stays in the centre of power is a minute where justice can escape for us. therefore, dear colleagues, let me finish with the only word in maltese that i know. ‘prime minister muscat: barra!’ (‘get out!’)
madam president, i am a maltese and i appreciate the seriousness of the revelations of the last few weeks and i am shocked like the rest of the country. we maltese are committed to justice for all those involved. it would be unfair if the bad reputation of individuals were used to cast a shadow over the entire maltese state. i hope that the aim is to strengthen the values that make us european. it is not to take a hasty position for partisan purposes when investigations are still open. it is a premature resolution to be reliable. we are at this stage, as the libe delegation itself confirmed, because the maltese police have done a lot of work together with bodies such as europol. malta has stopped, understood and decided. a process to strengthen the institutions has begun and we will not stop until we have the necessary constitutional reform. in this way we are systematically strengthening democracy in malta and not the other way around. i would like to stress that in this time of change, action on malta will neither be good nor fair to the maltese and gozitan people.
madam president, first i would like to say that today, in having this debate, we pay tribute to daphne caruana galizia because she was – she is – a martyr for freedom in the european union. then i must say that i am ashamed because the commission is too shy, the council is too silent and some colleagues, especially from the s&d group, do not have the courage to say what they would say if a journalist in russia was murdered, or a journalist in turkey who was murdered. if a journalist were to be persecuted in china, the s&d would have here a debate with all the courageous. and then, when we are in the european union, in our smallest country, you don’t have the courage to say that this is a shame and this is against the rule of law. if mr muscat is so democratic and so attached to the rule of law, why doesn’t he resign? he could do a service to democracy, to transparency and to a clean and serious investigation, but he doesn’t do it. he would serve the european union, not only the maltese people, if he resigned immediately, and that is the claim that i hope that the s&d can do now. if you have courage, please say to joseph muscat, ‘resign, and save the honour of the maltese people and the honour of the european union’.
madam president, that malta faces serious problems of governance is clear. they arose in the context of the horrendous murder of journalist ms caruana galizia and also beyond. the murder has been duly investigated in past years and disclose the big result. there have been fatal failures of judgment even at the top level. the political price for them is being paid. the situation in malta now is one of transition, both at the political level and that of the criminal investigation. what is needed is a dispassionate review of the situation, leading to reforms that will ensure no future repetition of past mistakes. true, the criminal investigation arrived at sensational findings, even more sensational allegations have been made on that basis. we have heard them being repeated during this debate, mostly for political jockeying. this runs contrary to the interests of the maltese people whose commitment to european values is secure. when considering how european values are being respected, we must follow objective criteria applied, to all, by an institution that all can trust. the resolution on which we shall vote tomorrow combines findings, allegations, one sided interpretations in a statement that paints black everything maltese. it also blacks out the economic, social and cultural progress achieved in malta during the past years, which is not fair. soon in malta there will be a new prime minister, heading a new government. they will be committed to a new beginning on governance issues to correct the radical failures of the past, on meting out justice and punishment to all those responsible for the caruana galizia assassination, on ensuring a better separation of powers and governance, on combating corruption, on promoting transparency in government affairs. these objectives will be given total priority. such commitments will be carried out in all good faith by the malta government – that we guarantee. the current transition should be given a chance to develop. making premature judgments about it is not the right way. there has to be a right way for the assembly to consider the affairs of malta, one that will be applied equally to other member states like hungary or poland. no matter how well intentioned, the direction in which this debate has been driven is not the right way. not the right way for malta, neither is it the right way for europe, we need a better way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the murder of daphne caruana galizia was a contract killing. there are deep-seated structures of money laundering and corruption in malta, whose entanglements reach the highest levels of the socialist government and whose leaders do not shy away from murderous violence. two government ministers have already resigned and, as mentioned, the prime minister has announced his resignation. i ask, what is the prime minister waiting for? muscat must resign immediately, and in doing so, clearly signal that he is no longer standing in the way of the criminal investigation. only if he resigns immediately can the suspicion be removed that members of the government are themselves involved in the structures of organized crime and are standing in the way of the necessary enlightenment. the european union stands for the rule of law, and the rule of law is a great asset. there must be no doubt about what europe stands for. these scandalous incidents must be condemned across all political lines and the protection of the rule of law must be put before any political interest. i also address our colleagues from the s&d and the left. it is time to put aside tactical restraint and take a clear stand. i have listened to you, mrs sippel, mrs barley, but i have not heard a word from you, not a word from you to your party friend mr muscat. not a word that you agree that there's a need for immediate action. i think that is a very unreliable policy and i would be very grateful if you could make your views clear today on the allegations that are being made - and murder is murder.
madam president, first of all, a word of respect for daphne caruana galizia, for her sacrifice and her work. this is a cornerstone of democracy. obviously we stand up for her and what she represented. but what we see here today is really the hypocrisy of the left, and especially of the s&d group, and i think this is outrageous. instead of being clear about it and instead of calling on the maltese prime minister to step down, they are wishy—washy about it. there is a lack of clarity and a lack of clear will to act on their side. this hypocrisy actually undermines anything, and especially credibility, when they talk about the rule of law elsewhere. they are busy now talking about hungary and poland. well, i have to say it’s outrageous and ridiculous even mentioning in one sentence what happened in malta and any political debate that we may have about things in poland and in hungary. we have to be very clear about it. we have to stand up clearly for these basic values. where is the s&d faction? they even tried to take this item off the plenary session agenda this week. why? where is the strength you show regarding these issues at other times? where is your readiness to talk about these issues? you need to be standing up for values without any double standards, and with the same standard for everybody. so i’m looking for that commitment from the s&d group. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
question for the blue paper. if i think someone is in great contradiction here it is a politician from hungary from the fidesz party who is trying to attack and use the rule of law argument. the difference between malta and hungary is one: we are making the amendments on the basis of what we are being told by the european council and the venice commission amendments to systems that have been in place since the 1960s, since we gained independence. your party's government is changing laws to undermine your country's democracy, your country's rule of law today. we're doing the opposite, that's your difference. we are pushing for amendments to strengthen the rule of law, your party is pushing for amendments to expand and reduce the rule of law in your country.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr fest, are you aware that in many budget areas 98% of the money is properly spent and properly used by the appropriate users? do you know that 95% of the money is also spent properly in the area of cohesion and agriculture? what we are addressing here today is that there are a few who are trying to misuse eu funds on a large scale. we are taking concrete action to combat this and we will take further and additional measures to do so, and so far we have been getting a little better year by year. so for blanket disapproval, i ask you, would you just answer the question, do you even know?
mr president, throughout europe we see that young farmers and family businesses are in a state of crisis. it is therefore very distressing to read in the new york times that a large part of the european agricultural budget is not going to them but is disappearing into the pockets of large landowners, oligarchs and political leaders or some combination of these. eu aid is being used on a large scale in some member states to pillage land and facilitate a kind of modern feudalism. it is not just the rural community and the taxpayer who are the victims. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud and corruption. it is therefore regrettable that the commission is reacting rather laxly and only points to the member states. that's not enough. advice from the eu's anti-corruption agency is twice as likely to be ignored as acted upon. the control of member states' expenditure should be much more effective and more compelling. for example, a european public prosecutor's office can play an important role in this. but what we need first of all is a greater sense of urgency. that is my appeal to the european commission: get to work!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks there has been much talk of the disturbing situation of land concentration in some member states, but the bad habit has nothing to do with the common agricultural policy. in recent years we have made important efforts to reduce the distortions that can be created at national level in a complex policy that spans 28 countries and involves millions of beneficiaries. but much remains to be done, and that is why parliament has already taken a clear position in our report on the concentration of agricultural land in the union. this is a position which is unfortunately not reflected in the current proposal for reform of the cap. on the contrary, too much flexibility for member states would increase the risk that certain behaviour might be further encouraged by national choices. today, more than ever, mr commissioner, we need a strong anchorage to common objectives and instruments, capable of thwarting any opening to political individualism which would make the cap a mere container of resources without safeguarding the social, economic and environmental strategic importance.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i wonder how the eu will ensure that eu funds are not used for corruption. the swedish democrats and the ecr group can never accept that eu funds are used in this way. when the economist ranked the eu countries by democracy index, romania came in last. since 2016, the social democratic government has pushed through bills that effectively legalize corruption and give the government greater power to appoint and remove judges. the social democratic party chairman and president of romania, liviu dragnea, is personally suspected of embezzling hundreds of millions of crowns from the eu budget. he has also been designated as the leader of a criminal syndicate by the country's special prosecutor for corruption. in 2015, dragnea was sentenced to one year in prison for electoral fraud and later, in 2018, he was sentenced in another corruption case to three and a half years in prison. it's uncertain if he'll serve any of those sentences. this is completely unacceptable and the eu must take strong action to control where the money goes.
i have to say, madam president, i think we have to distinguish between two things here, at least as far as agriculture is concerned. as some of the speakers have already said, if we look at the actual error rates and the reports of our court of auditors, we have an error rate of one per thousand in the area of direct payments, or one payment per thousand, and 1.4% in rural development. these are the naked numbers. but then there's a whole series of payments that are also there and that we're discussing today. the legal ones, or, as mrs hohlmeier said, those on the margins of legality, and those which have to do with the fact that we either pay to subjects who have nothing to do with agriculture or that we pay for things which are purely about returns on investment and increasingly also on investment from outside the european union. we are called upon to do this as legislators, because ultimately we have to decide to whom we want to pay money in the context of agricultural policy. i think we should encourage rural farming, we should pay those who actually inhabit the countryside, who make a positive contribution to the cultural landscape and to the conservation of resources. i think we must do that now in the debate on agricultural policy reform.
madam president, the citizens of our union ask for transparency on the use of european funds, including cohesion policy, which plays a crucial role in creating sustainable growth and jobs, with the clear mission of not leaving any region of our union behind. the commission should take very seriously any kind of error detected in the use of the cohesion funds. for the financial year 2018, the european court of auditors showed that the level of error on cohesion increased. as the budgetary authority responsible for the discharge, it is our duty to understand the reasons behind this inversion. even if an error does not automatically mean fraud, the credibility of cohesion policy should not be undermined by specific cases on which the commission should promptly take action. cohesion policy is one of the most successful tools of the european union. it is for this reason that we should put all our efforts, and urge others to do the same, into significantly reducing the error rate so that we can deliver better results for our citizens. it is clear that the crucial challenges we will face in the future will require at least the same financial means the cohesion policy has had until today. if we want our regions to continue to grow, cohesion policy must be prioritised.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. about one in five people in the eu has a disability. this is why a new disability strategy is absolutely essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore think that this request for an oral answer to the commission can be an important contribution to the debate which must be held on the question: what more can we do to integrate disabled people into the first labour market in order to strengthen the social labour market? but also, how can we support the families of these people? because it is not only a challenge for the people themselves, but also for the relatives. i am quite sure that we as the epp have a very important role to play in this process, because for us as christian democrats, every person has the same value, whether he is disabled or not. this must not only be true of sunday speeches, but must also be seen in practical politics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission must set itself the objective of fully implementing the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in order to draw up a european strategy for disability beyond 2020, which is also in line with the social pillar and the sustainable development objectives. the work done so far is worthwhile, from the european accessibility act to the revision of public procurement legislation, but it is still insufficient. we need to do more for freedom of movement with inclusive transport policies, greater portability of services, promotion of independent living, de-institutionalization. we must improve policies for access to the labour market and the fight against multiple discrimination. the next european budget must reflect these priorities and the internal organisation of the european commission must also reflect the transversal nature of policies for the inclusion of people with disabilities. the commission has the results of its public consultation in hand and the way forward is outlined. let us remember that when we talk about the rights of people with disabilities, we are talking about universal human rights.
mr. chairman, please! janina ochojska (her place is here, but she is not with us today because she is fighting cancer) asked me to draw your attention to an important aspect of the discussion we are having. there are many people with intellectual disabilities in our society. for them, there is a need for schemes to support them in taking up employment in the open labour market, so-called assisted employment, and for supported housing, with the permanent or periodic support of a qualified trainer. the european union should include this issue in its new strategy and also allocate funds to it. it is important that each citizen can choose the best path for him or her to develop and function in society according to his or her capabilities. the systems for adjudicating disability cases in the eu are different and each country applies its own criteria. it is essential to take urgent action to harmonise the disability court system.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's disability strategy is now expiring, but we still face challenges in the employment of europe's 80 million disabled people. only 47% of europe's disabled are in employment. having colleagues to stand up to every day is important for your quality of life, and having a job is important for your economy. studies show that employers' willingness to hire an employee drops dramatically if something needs to change in the workplace, even if it is small changes like flexible working hours or assistive devices. when jobs are not adequate, millions are denied the opportunity to work and the risk of poverty is increased. the fact that the disabled are paid a minimum wage does not create more spacious jobs, which i hear many people suggest as a solution. of course, everyone with specialist skills should be paid for it, including the disabled. anything else is humiliating. the new disability strategy must be a concerted effort for the working life we want for all in europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. but we here in the european parliament must also be the shield of the disabled and the voice of the 100 million people in the european union who are faced with this issue. the culture of the european union and our european civilization does not allow and does not tolerate discrimination against people with disabilities. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the disabled, which aims to promote the integration of disabled people into society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union cannot and should not contribute one euro to projects in the member states which do not provide for projects which are not compatible with accessibility for disabled people. and finally, the 'european accessibility act' must become a reality, it must become mandatory and binding for all the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commissioner dalli, i am very pleased that this is your first debate in the european parliament as commissioner responsible for equality. the [european convention on human rights] is a document with words and many rights, a very beautiful document. but if it is not implemented in every member state and even on a european basis, this document is not worth the paper it is written on. this is therefore a very important debate which also shows the commitment that this parliament has to be a strong voice for people with disabilities in the european union. in europe, where we have more than 100 million people with disabilities, they require us to be a single, united voice at european level. the year 2020 has come to an end and so has the current strategy. if we are to move forward with a policy that leads to the full and equal participation of people with disabilities in our society, we need a new strategy with a renewed and more ambitious agenda in this regard.
we now come to the spontaneous verbal communications. i regret to inform you that i have more than three times the number of speeches than we have time for in this debate. i therefore ask for your understanding that i will only be considering six colleagues. spontaneous speech
mr president, i am concerned about the many disabled people whose voice i represent here in the european parliament. the strategy is expiring until 2020, and we don't have any new ones yet. it's true that evaluation is underway, but we're running behind schedule, so we should be moving quickly, and i feel that we're taking better care of many groups in our society than we are taking care of the disabled. i am also concerned about the situation in my country where we still do not have a system of long-term care, which of course has a significant impact on the quality of life of all disabled people, and of course on the quality of life of their families. the disabled are often excluded and threatened by poverty, but it is not just them who suffer, their families suffer too. in europe we give money to many projects and there is no reason why we should not also find it for the disabled. but even more important than that, it's important to include them and recognize them as equal members of our society. let the european strategy be an example for the strategies in other member states.
mr president, the 2020 europe strategy set out five ambitious targets, including unemployment, education, and fighting poverty and social exclusion. yes, we have progressed overall, but not nearly enough for the disability community who, quite frankly, are fed up of waiting to be treated equally in all areas of life. we must be more ambitious and more inclusive. the 2020 strategy target was 75% employment rate in the eu. however, across the eu about 47% of persons with disabilities are now employed, compared with 72% of persons without disabilities. meanwhile, 68.1% of the eu population with a disability would have been at risk of poverty without social benefits, allowances or pensions. the new agenda must mainstream disability in all eu policies and laws and push for social acceptance of people with disabilities as part of human diversity by fighting all forms of discrimination and stigmatisation. i finally want to pay tribute to the work of the european network on independent living, whose members demand quite rightly... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, the union needs a new disability strategy and also to encourage stronger compliance by member states with objectives and accountability. in this new strategy, i am committed to placing personal autonomy as the first objective, which implies a better access of this group to the labour market. i insist on calling for more participation from cities and regions because this strategy is being implemented from below. i call for more support for the social economy, from which most of the initiatives to create protected employment are taken. i want to see more controls to ensure that all the places reserved for disabled people in the public administration and private enterprises are filled. the combined action of these factors has led to a fall in unemployment among the disabled in the basque country to 16%. only one in three disabled people work in special centres. the rest are in the ordinary market.
mr president, the 2010-2020 strategy had great potential for integrating people with disabilities into european union policies, but let's face it, it failed. disabled people are also not adequately included in strategies such as europe 2020, the european semester, the esf, the erdf or erasmus. it just can't happen again. the new strategy must take account of two trends in the development of the european union. it's population ageing and digitization. in the case of disability in old age, the usual problems of these people are compounded. people with mental illness or other psychosocial disabilities have also been forgotten in the past. unfortunately, these people have been left on the margins of the european institutions' attention. the various austerity measures applied by member states over the past decade are also to blame. to sum up, the commission has a lot of work to do, and in particular it should follow the recommendations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. let's not make up stuff, let's do what we can.
mr president, commissioner, since 2005 we have battled in this parliament to stop eu funding going to build institutions and i know there is a concern that some people regard smaller institutions as the answer. they are not. i would like you to pay very close attention to that. secondly, when we are banning things in europe and we are banning plastic straws, i know that my citizens with a disability need plastic straws. so we should be very careful in our move for a more sustainable europe not to disadvantage the already disadvantaged. straws should be available as normal for those who need them. they are not – and should not – be regarded as a medical device. my last comment: i want to give a shout-out to two organisations in ireland. one called walk, because they walk with, and in the shoes of those with a disability; they give them dignity and they find them work with businesses and they do a great job. secondly, locally to my own area, i want to mention prosper meath. they have created videos and, if you watch those, you will understand how it is for people with disabilities. i’ll send you links.
i am sorry again that i was unable to take on so many colleagues. i would point out that colleagues who have not been included in the spontaneous statements may put them in the minutes once per plenary session and the speech will then be entered in the minutes as normal.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their contributions to this debate. i have taken note of all your very valid comments, and i can say that we are very much on the same page and i appreciate each and every remark. i also look forward to links which you may have; we are not reinventing the wheel. i think we shall emulate all projects which have been a success. so thank you for your contributions. i will reiterate what i told the european disability forum (edf) and what i also told the disability intergroup of this parliament: that i will do nothing about you without you. i think it is of the essence that, when we are working in the area of disability, whatever we do, we do it with people who have the knowledge and also with people who have disabilities. so rest assured that the process will be all-inclusive. this debate also shows once more the relevance and the necessity to promote equality and better inclusion of persons with disabilities in our societies. eu legislation, funds and social policy have increasingly provided important rules, tools and means for supporting persons with disabilities, and the commission is committed to fulfil its role as a focal point of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i assure you that this commitment is a top priority for the commission and for me personally. we will use all input received today, and also input received from stakeholders, to further improve our approach to disability and propose an appropriate follow-up to our current strategy. we will also take into account the reports adopted by this parliament. they represent a great contribution to this process. these reflections will also feed into the commission’s reflections on the future action plan for implementation of the european pillar of social rights. i am sure that i can count on your support to further strengthen european disability policy. we need to bring it to the degree of ambition and protection that eu citizens expect from the eu in this area of policy. so thank you all for your contributions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the eu charter of fundamental rights prohibits all forms of discrimination on the grounds of disability and affirms the right of persons with disabilities to autonomy, social and occupational inclusion and participation in community life. the european strategy 2010-2020 has been an important tool in this direction, but inequalities in relation to people with disabilities still persist: the employment gap is too wide; the higher the dropout rate, the higher the poverty risk. there are still too many barriers to the basic needs of people with disabilities in their daily lives. and inequalities also affect children, the most vulnerable, whose protection is a duty for all of us. they must be given specific assistance so that they do not suffer any form of discrimination. for the first time, there is an equality commissioner, whose task is to strengthen the eu's commitment to inclusion and equality, and to ensure the eu's implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the eu should therefore develop a more ambitious post-2020 strategy, setting itself as the driving force behind member states' action to ensure dignity, equality and the full realisation of the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. i would like to commend how this strategy between 2010 and 2020 has changed the way we deal with disability from a medical issue to a social one we have come to protect the rights of the individual to ensure that society is inclusive and gives enough space for everyone to thrive, regardless of the mental or physical disability a person may have. since the start of this strategy, we have seen in europe the range of services provided grow, the focus on accessibility, particularly physical accessibility, increase, and the educational services provided to people with disabilities of all ages improve. supported by strong laws, different measures have been taken to achieve the goal of an equal society. this has strengthened europe's ability to fight discrimination in the workplace and in employment conditions and above all has given more opportunities for people with disabilities to participate more fully in the community. convinced that in the future, especially when strong legislation is introduced against discrimination in all its forms, the concept of accessibility will continue to be broadened, including by making even the most necessary services more economically accessible to all those who need them so that disability no longer puts families at risk of poverty. in a period where we are looking at how to make the most of digitalisation to improve our quality of life, we need not only to ensure digital inclusion but we also need to look at what new opportunities can be created for people with disabilities through new technologies in the world of work, entertainment and services.
