president, on behalf of my group i would also like to express our condolences on the terrible murder of pawel adamowicz. these are matters that not only shock poland, but i think every parliament in the eu. it's not the first, unfortunately, and i'm afraid it won't be the last. what we are seeing is a political atmosphere in the eu that has become increasingly harsh over the years. the debate is no longer being held in the chamber but in the streets. and whether it 's in a theater or the yellow vests: i think the message to politicians is that instead of just shouting our ears off, we should listen to what the other person has to say. perhaps that will help to put an end to the atmosphere of hatred that is being created in this chamber too.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. it is now more than a year since monsanto, the german federal institute for risk assessment, the european food safety authority and the european commission jointly pushed this approval through the eu member states. this decision was taken on the basis of dubious, manipulated and industry-supplied studies. europe is taking unacceptable risks to the health of over 500 million citizens and to animal health. europe is allowing more and more of this poison to be pumped into our environment, our waters, our food and our bodies. the european parliament therefore set up this special committee of inquiry into the pesticide authorisation procedure in the wake of the glyphosate scandal. the recommendations of this special committee on pesticide authorization are promising. europe must become more transparent and determine independently of industry whether pesticides are safe to use. less poison should be used in its totality. the use of pesticides in public places should be prohibited. and animals can no longer be abused to demonstrate the supposed safety of poison. as the rapporteur has just said, the special committee on the union's authorisation procedure for pesticides wants non-animal testing methods. each one of them is a good recommendation which the party for the animals wholeheartedly endorses. i therefore assume that these recommendations will be embraced by the european commission, but also by the european council, and that they will be incorporated into the general food law. all that's left is to clean up the remnants of the past. glyphosate should be withdrawn from the market immediately, as there is no basis for the approval given. that is also what one million citizens have asked of us. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, this is the second debate we have on plant protection products and i know that there will be a few more before the elections. and what i'm always worried about is that this is going to question science every time. i think it is important to say again that we in the european union have the most stringent and secure admission procedure in the world. substances such as alcohol, caffeine and even vitamin d should not be allowed in plant protection products. i understand the emotion. of course, food safety and public health must always be safeguarded. but what i fear - besides the fact that we are continually questioning the science - is that the appreciation of the farmer is also coming under increasing pressure. whatever farming system you use, when you produce food, you interfere with nature and you have an environmental impact. what we're forgetting is that farmers have already minimized their environmental impact over the past few decades, and they're eager to invest to reduce their environmental impact even more. and if you're going to grow food, you need farmland. that's what you get from nature. to protect your crops, you still have certain resources. if you don't, you'll lose your crops, you'll have food waste and you'll need more land for your agricultural production. what i want to do here, and what i want to commit myself to, is to give the farmers the adequate tools to properly protect those crops. this can be done through technological solutions such as precision agriculture, but also through ecological solutions. harnessing the power of nature through breeding, more attention to the soil and low-risk remedies.
the use of leased vehicles for the transport of goods has great advantages for europe. the use of hired vehicles increases the productivity and flexibility of the companies involved. peak loads can be covered by hired vehicles. in addition, the use of hired vehicles reduces capital wastage by reducing the under-utilisation of vehicles. in addition, rental vehicles are often newer, cleaner and safer, which contributes to the use of rental vehicles in a more sustainable manner. i am therefore in favour of further liberalisation of the european market for rental vehicles. this will help to promote a level playing field and fair competition between european companies and remove unnecessary restrictions and administrative burdens. i would like to stress that proper registration of the licence plates of hired vehicles is essential, for example, for the enforcement of cabotage rules. it should be possible to exchange information between authorities in different member states so that the country of establishment of the carrier is always clear. the text we are voting on tomorrow contains a very good provision for this. the same applies to the possibility of restricting the use of hired vehicles from another member state to some extent. for example, to prevent rental companies from moving to countries with a more favourable tax climate. in conclusion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i support this text because it puts the european transport sector on the right track.
in writing. will 2019 be the year we really start tackling gender inequality? a hundred years ago, women got the vote. meanwhile, there is still no female prime minister and a woman at the top of an eu institution seems a long way off. it's time for more women at the top, and it's time that there's more room for men in the household and in care. there's a lot of work to be done, but let's take that glove and make a difference. the structural obstacles to gender equality must be removed. tax policy should not promote inequality but rather counteract it. individual instead of double taxation is necessary for a fairer distribution of paid and unpaid work. we are helping to close the 16% wage gap and the 40% pension gap. i think it is time that gender no longer plays a role in the ambitions of a european. i am calling for a europe in which no one is disadvantaged in pursuing his or her dreams. for a europe where there is gender equality in top positions. the europe i am advocating is not yet here.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, if i have not already done so, i wish you all a happy new year and good health in this election year. first of all, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, but above all the rapporteurs of the imco committee and the legal affairs committee, both of whom have delivered a good opinion on my own-initiative report, to which i shall return shortly. i would point out that this owninitiative report is not just about cars, but also about other modes of transport, such as the subway, the train and the self-propelled inland waterway. that is an industrial development that we can certainly embrace. this is also a matter of european industrial policy, and in particular the spin-off to other sectors, as we have seen in the aerospace sector, is of great importance in the development of self-driving vehicles. this dossier is certainly also linked to the europe 2030 innovation programme. at the same time, it is competing with the united states, china, south korea and even israel. they're all working to develop self-driving vehicles as soon as possible. another important aspect of this dossier is road safety. i know that your colleague, mrs bulc, is very concerned about road safety: 90% of road accidents in europe are caused by human error. when you talk about road safety, you also talk about liability. who is liable in the case of the self-driving vehicle? and our committee on legal affairs has said valuable things about that. another important point in this file is the psychology of the self-driving car. in other words: is the individual european citizen ready to give himself up to a fully self-driving car? that will require some upheaval and some conversion of the citizen. i also ask for attention to be paid to the employees. there are many workers in the automotive industry and related companies who are concerned about their jobs in a fully self-driving vehicle. i would ask the committee on the rules of procedure to pay particular attention to this. it is of the utmost importance that we in europe have one single regulation so that self-driving vehicles, whether it be a train or a boat or a car, can leave the member state without any border problems. and i would just like to refer to the 2016 amsterdam declaration and the work in geneva to achieve global regulation. in conclusion: the dates. there is a lot of discussion, including in the committee on transport, about data protection. on the one hand we are talking about the protection of personal data, the data of the car manufacturer and the data of the aftermarket. i call on the european commission to strike a balance between these two extremes. finally, i would like to invite the new commission to include a good chapter on the development of self-driving vehicles in the european union in the 2019-2024 programme.
president. - the council and the commission are praising themselves for the decline in migration. but let's be clear: it is the result of bowing to blackmail from turkey and corrupt tribal leaders in libya, where billions of taxpayers' money from eu citizens are being siphoned off. it is the result of the reluctant acceptance of the hardline approach to human smuggling ngos by matteo salvini, the italian minister of the interior. the council is advocating the same lax eu policy on returning illegal migrants, while mrs merkel last week acknowledged that the turkey deal had failed completely on this point. so the council has agreed to send billions more to corrupt african countries, but hardly send a single migrant back. so the solution must come from the patriots again. as mr wilders has been advocating in the netherlands for years: the european union must not only close its borders, but also those of its member states. this makes it virtually impossible to travel through to germany, the eu's migrant walhalla. towing boats with migrants back to the african coast, and i say to you: the eu coast guard is not going to do this. we must also deal with the member states where patriotic parties are in power. the only solution to this failing eu is the cooperation of sovereign states that themselves provide for the protection of their citizens. so i say to the commission and the council: stop your waste of money and your failed policies and support italy, poland and hungary. take that as an example for the eu.
madam president, what would we say if 2 000 people had died trying to cross mr trump’s border wall? we would consider that a gross violation of human rights, yet we hear the presidency here say ‘oh the situation has improved significantly, numbers have gone down’. but madam president, last year over 2 000 people died trying to cross the mediterranean. we are very critical, and rightfully so, of this silly wall of president trump, but fortress europe is just a european equivalent of that wall, and you in the council are building fortress europe. you are building the wall. we just happen to have the mediterranean in between. now, like trump and his stupid wall, the council is using fortress europe for populist purposes and political debate. like trump and his silly wall, you are spending billions on fortress europe and on unsavoury regimes, rather than adopting the package that’s on the table that has been adopted by a majority of this house. something else: it’s not just the european parliament and the commission; it’s local authorities. the mayor of gdańsk, who was stabbed to death, welcomed thousands of migrants into his city. you should take an example from that. you should learn from that, from all the ngos and churches who are actually clamouring for a sensible, humane and effective asylum policy. it is ready to be adopted, so stop playing games. i would like to commend the commissioner for his strong personal commitment and all the efforts, the tireless efforts, he is making for a common asylum policy. i just have one small request to you, and that is true refrain from putting new proposals on the table, like the recast of the return directive, which is absolutely, completely unnecessary and just part of the silly political games of the council. do what the european citizens expect of you and adopt the asylum package, because yes we can do it. germany has demonstrated it can be done, so just do it. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. president, i thank mr mato for his good report and the president of the ecb for his explanation of the broadly positive trends in this annual report for 2017. for example, i am pleased to note, and you also write in your report, that many banks are using these better times to make their balance sheets healthier. the percentage of bad loans has indeed fallen and you give all the figures. but unfortunately there are still exceptions and i am proud that i have been able to work with mr gualtieri and a very constructive council to draw up for the first time rules which will now oblige all banks in the eu to deal with bad loans. finally, i should say. we must now also, as the ecb rightly points out, tackle the existing bad loans. finally, perhaps edis, because that is also the subject of mr mato's report. i think that the recent developments concerning the carige bank in italy illustrate well the concerns that are still alive in this debate. although the private italian dgs is used wherever possible in this crisis, it is not used to compensate account holders but to provide the bank with capital. we know that this early intervention is allowed under certain conditions, but we also know that one country uses it more than another, with the result that the bill is still being passed on to the taxpayer. that's not what i meant. this explains the deadlock in the council. this explains why some countries have little appetite for creating a european-only dgs. why create a european pot of money when countries deal with it so differently? i think that as rapporteur for edis this is a very valid question, but i do think that we must get out of this because in the end we are better off in europe with a solution and not with a deadlock. as rapporteur, i have therefore also proposed a system which first leaves responsibility to the national dgs and then regulates the solidarity of a european dgs. i therefore have a very specific question to put to the president of the ecb, who has always been a strong supporter of edis. which would you prefer right now: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he would be prepared to take a cautious approach to the report as proposed in econ or to wait until the next parliament to deal with this difficult subject?
president, the ecb has injected four thousand billion euros into the eurozone economy in recent years. an amount greater than the gross national product of germany. all this cheap money was good for countries like italy and france, which were partly hampered by it in carrying out real reforms. but now they still have to contend with high public debt, high unemployment and high youth unemployment. the cheap money is also good for the banks, but the low interest rates have put the pension funds in trouble and, unfortunately, savings have become useless. the ecb's policy has been too soft and too generous, and i fear that we will soon be presented with another hefty bill as economic growth weakens. i call on the government to make real reforms now. and not in the form of a transfer union, but in the form of more efficient governments, fairer taxation and investing in people and sustainability.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, i thank all the rapporteurs who are going to bring this important matter to a successful conclusion. we in the committee on transport are in dire need of these investments. the plan is of great importance to the transport sector, especially as regards road construction and in particular motorways in europe. we need more private money in our sector. there is only one aspect to which i would like to draw your particular attention, and that is the environmental objectives in the approach of the rapporteurs from the committee on budgets and econ. we all know that europe must become cleaner, but at the same time we must not overestimate the capacity of private investors to do so. the commission has therefore called for a lower environmental objective than that currently agreed.
madam president, we have already taken a lot of steps during the last years as part of the juncker plan, and i’m glad to see that some of these changes that we wished for have been taken on board. for instance, a better relationship with regional policy, and a better relationship with structural funds and horizon europe. it’s possible to have a greater impact and more visibility if you combine those funds with the new investeu fund to bring better visibility for our citizens, for instance through smart specialisation. second point, the transfer from the structural funds has been realised now in this regulation. this is very important. it’s a free transfer, and it can be done on the priorities that are regionally accepted. third point, assistance from the investeu advisory hub is absolutely necessary all over europe, and the eib can work together and share its expertise with other partners. this is a partnership that is now possible. and my last remark, the geographical balance can be done better than before. it’s no good that one part of europe takes away a lot of young people to work in other parts. it’s europe, and our goal is that we want to have balanced development. this has been taken on board in a much better way. as regi coordinator, i support your initiative and i think it’s good for a green, growing europe with jobs.
president. - if in one region of europe many people lose their jobs at the same time, the whole region is hit at the same time. in such exceptional situations people should be able to count more quickly on the support and solidarity of europe. we know that employment is going to change - and is already changing - because of all kinds of technological developments, international competition and globalisation. and because we have to adapt to climate change, which will have an impact on the labor market. we must not leave people who are affected by this alone. we must make a concerted effort to give them a second chance. people can count on our support to get back on the horse. they could use the support. so vote for the european transit fund.
mr president, europe cannot be about currency, markets and money alone. it's got to be about people. it is perfectly logical that we should help people who have lost their jobs because of the crisis or globalisation to find a new job. this is not about abstract statistics or numbers. the people concerned are from drenthe in the netherlands who lost their jobs in r & d, people from friesland who could no longer find work in the banking sector, people in the construction sector in gelderland who lost their jobs in the crisis. real people with real problems. it is important that the eu not only looks at the business community but also at the problems of those people and that it contributes to a solution. that is exactly what the globalisation fund is doing, and it is doing it successfully and efficiently. it is also important that we send the signal today that, for us, the eu will continue to be there in the coming years for people who need a little support.
mr president, poverty is poison in our nations. in europe, one in four children is at increased risk of poverty or social exclusion. it is children who grow into youth, it is youth who grow into adults, and it is those adults who risk never catching up. lack of access to employment, lack of access to good health care. that is why i have before me a proud social democrat. we have taken the initiative to make the child guarantee a matter for parliament. i am proud that parliament is setting aside 5.9 billion euros to combat social injustice. i think that child poverty is a problem that is not confined to the union, and i think that this report will make a major contribution to that.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i think that today is the day when we can say that crossborder cooperation is not a thing of the past but of the present. if you look at northern ireland alone - where we recently visited with a delegation - what it means in sparsely populated areas to actually establish cooperation with universities and schools, new technology, energy generation and so on, then you need each other in the border areas. borders are the scars of the past, and then you see what that means. but also in some other areas, which were not given the priority of, for example, london, in scotland, they have continued through these interreg programmes and have been able to achieve higher education. twenty years ago, it was the foundation of the economy we have today. the experience gained in the so-called old member states was immediately applied to the enlargement of the union. you saw how people wanted to collaborate in languages, in everyday things. two further comments. so it's not at all outdated, it's very, very modern. and certainly the almost 1 billion euros that are now being made available for these interregional, innovative projects. sometimes projects are too small to do right on the sides of the border, but you find another region or city to do it with, to do it at scale, for example, for 3d printing. the commission's new initiative on territorial cooperation has been introduced here to speed up the adoption of new technologies. i think that's a great initiative. no old politics, but doing the things that are necessary now and also in the next seven years with the new programme. - good for you.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1785/81 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). interreg programmes have been doing a good job for decades of promoting this, of getting people to work across borders, of getting people to use each other's facilities or of better connecting infrastructure across borders. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is going to allocate 11 billion euros to finance crossborder cooperation. we need that money, because we're going to be supporting something new in the future. it 's been said before: the so-called interregional innovative investments. almost €1 billion is being allocated to joint innovative investments by knowledge institutes, businesses and public authorities located in different european countries. this means that we will join forces at european level to develop and bring to market new products and services. the location of the investment is no longer the determining factor for the financial support provided by europe, but the way in which an investment can create the greatest possible european added value. by investing jointly in innovation at european level, the european union can better compete on a global scale with, for example, the united states or china. that will lead to more cooperation and more cohesion in europe, but ultimately also to more european jobs, more growth, more prosperity. finally, i hope that we can enter into negotiations with the council very soon on this new regulation. this is particularly important in order to allow the new interreg programmes to start up quickly in 2021 and thus to further blur the borders in europe.
madam president, i have to say that watching yesterday’s debate in the house of commons – a parliament, which, due to its tradition and history we hugely respect – i couldn’t help but think ‘boy! collectively they don’t know what they want, but boy do they hold great speeches about it!’ a bit like mr farage, actually, who, even in this debate of just an hour-and-a-half about brexit – brexit, mind you, his raison d’être – can’t be bothered to remain in this chamber. (applause)he made his speech, probably put it on youtube, and left the room. that is what he always does. but i have to hand it to mr farage, he does know what he wants. what he wants is the hardest no-deal brexit possible, only for his buddies then afterwards to dismantle the nhs, to destroy ordinary people’s jobs and to create a bankers’ paradise uncontrolled. (applause)listening then to the debate in this house, in this european parliament, what i hear from colleagues is ‘please let’s sit down and look at what we can agree in terms of creating a majority and finding a solution.’ mr corbyn says he would prefer a customs union. why doesn’t anyone put forward an amendment in the house of commons that actually says that, and see how far we can get? if, regrettably, the british leave, a customs union would be the best solution, in order to keep jobs on both sides of the water and actually find a workable solution. we went into politics, colleagues, here and in westminster, not only to give speeches but to sit down, create majorities and find solutions. let’s get to work. (applause)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the prime minister for a very constructive speech. it is clear that spain is a reliable partner in europe and europe will be a reliable partner to spain. so yes, we will for example continue the youth guarantee, cohesion policy, etc. but let’s be clear, responsibility for a social europe starts at home, so calling for a european unemployment scheme to take attention away from the work you have to do at home is, i think, a dangerous strategy. economically we’re lucky. spain is standing on the shoulders of giants. it has a good economic situation thanks to the work of previous governments. so let’s continue that work, let’s not burden future generations with unsustainable levels of debt. i think that’s where social policy starts. responsibility and solidarity go hand-in-hand, and on that basis, i look forward to continuing work with spain.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. that call was met with nothing but a shy laugh in this chamber. i find that worrying. violence against politicians is not only physical violence, but also legal violence and administrative exclusion. and this parliament is not exempt from that. with the elections coming up, i fear the exclusion and demonization of large groups of voters and their representatives, simply because they are a threat to the existing order. you can be a democrat and still want to dismantle the european union. the members of this parliament must ask themselves whether their political opinion justifies everything, including the exclusion of the other. do we not thereby destroy the fundamental rights we are supposed to cherish?
blue-card question. – colleague, i just heard you speak of militant atheists, i’m not really sure what that is and how they are making the lives of christian people in europe impossible, but okay. but you said that the european union would collapse if it was no longer founded on its christian roots, but isn’t what we all have in common, the enlightenment and the rule of law, isn’t that the basis for our community? i mean i respect your christian roots, but if you do not respect the fact that other people are atheists, then how can we live together?
mr president, i think some of the interventions in this debate demonstrate very clearly how necessary this debate is and how much more we need to invest in the european union as a community of values. i just heard my ppe colleagues say: well, why didn’t you compromise a little bit more? because we do not compromise on human rights. we do not compromise on certain basic principles, like equality, and when you say everything’s fine in the european union, no violence against women – ask women how many women encounter violence and harassment in their daily life. it also shows how we need to protect lgbti rights. recently in my country we found out that over 200 christian ministers have signed up to the so—called nashville declaration, which is profoundly homophobic and transphobic. i’d be really interested to know who else in this house is aware of the declaration and has signed up to it. so i will wholeheartedly support this report, including recital 7 and paragraph 23 which is about the fundamental right of women to decide on their very own bodies. there is no right more basic than that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all: indeed we greens will vote against the report. and why is that? because we had quite a few critical amendments on the performance of the eib which were not taken up in the compromises, so we don’t feel that our criticism has been reflected in the compromises, and therefore we will vote against. but i would like to focus here today on the discussion concerning climate and climate proofing and the consistency of our european policies. already in november the european commission published its long-term strategy, making it very clear that europe can be and should be zero carbon by 2050. this means that the energy sector needs to be zero carbon by 2040, because that sector needs to go first before you have the more difficult sectors to go to. so by 2040 the energy infrastructure must be fully complied with zero emissions. that means that the investments that we are making today need to think of how to be zero carbon in 20 years. so the investments now need to be zero carbon. it must be taken away from fossil fuels entirely, and that’s not the case now – there is still a lot of money from the eib going into fossil fuel infrastructure, quite often with the argument of security. however, you cannot use that argument, which contradicts our long-term strategy. and i know that the eib has now said that we will look at our climate strategy again, but i really would like to hear more urgency. what does that mean? how is the eib going to make sure that no further investments will go into fossil fuel infrastructure, because every euro spent on fossil fuel infrastructure today will make it impossible to be zero carbon by 2050, which is our target – as the commission says – and this inconsistency needs to be solved fast. (applause)
madam president, commissioner hoyer, i would like to make a few comments on the part of regional policy, as coordinator for the epp in the regi committee. your role is beyond question. mr hoyer has just indicated that the necessary steps are being taken to achieve a real balance in europe after the crisis, because we are talking about 2017. you must continue to do so, and i am also very pleased that mr pirinski's report has rightly mentioned the territorial dimension. that is and remains essential in europe. second point: your advisory role. yesterday we were talking here about investeu, the new hub we are creating, and you will be part of it. we need to do a lot more to address that. i am referring to the regional jaspers programme. i notice that some slime has come in. we're putting money into it, and we're putting advisors in it, which we're making available through you, but it's not as effective as it was when we started. i think that with this investeu hub, we can accelerate and we can improve. third point: you will have a less exclusive position in investeu and i think it is good that you also learn to cooperate more with other partners. i think one and one can be three. you just said: we are waiting for the initiatives from below. yesterday the commissioner said: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you'll have to report that. i'd like to hear more about jaspers soon, as well as your changing role in the opinions, and of course, mrs gräβle is right: those governance aspects, you really need to do something about that.
the rapporteur is mr libé. mr president, i am honoured to be here today to replace my green colleague, mr josep-maria terricabras. he is actually the rapporteur for the opinion of the libe committee and he and i are convinced that this proposal is necessary. we need a new tool in our toolbox to keep member states in the loop. it is our duty to protect european citizens from governments that violate the rights of those individual citizens. i believe that making european subsidies conditional on respect for the rule of law and civil rights is one of the new tools in the toolbox we need to keep the union running. i see european governments - and yes, i am thinking of hungary - getting away with self-enrichment and old-fashioned agitation. we can't just stand by and watch. the libe committee therefore proposed that the test of civil rights be given greater weight in the proposal. these civil rights are enshrined in the european convention on human rights. they are not just a part of the rule of law, no, they stand proudly beside it. i would therefore ask you to support the libe rapporteur's amendment, amendment no 72. that makes this report even better.
today we are talking about protecting the union's budget in the event of fundamental deficiencies in the rule of law in the member states. as this title shows, the aim was to find a way of punishing countries such as hungary and poland for not slavishly submitting to the eu's lust for power. the arrogant eu elite demands that its so-called universal values be adopted by all member states without fail. the commission is also proposing to make it possible to avoid new national tax measures that could be harmful to the eu. the countries must show solidarity, including in the field of taxation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this further erodes the sovereignty of nations. it is clear that the measures are directed against poland and hungary. these proud countries are rightly not going to let themselves be ruled by a communist dictatorship for decades. we shall vote against.
author. – mr president, it is actually quite sad that we’re here once again debating the deteriorating human rights situation in azerbaijan under the leadership of president aliyev and the vice-president, his wife. human rights defenders and activists, such as mehman huseynov who are shedding light on corruption are being harassed, unlawfully detained and tortured. and although this crackdown on human rights, democracy and civil society is systematic, the european commission signed a partnership agreement with azerbaijan this summer. i think we have to question the issue of conditionality and how we can best use it now. certainly any partnership agreement with any country cannot become a reason to, or an excuse to, avoid addressing the human rights violations in the strongest possible terms. in fact, and many colleagues have mentioned this, azerbaijan is ranked 163rd among 180 countries in 2008 on the world press freedom index. that is a shockingly low ranking and it is confirmed by the fact that 10 journalists are currently imprisoned, but there’s also a number of websites and blogs that are blocked in the country. in fact some of the country’s brightest minds have already left, because their freedom and safety was jeopardised and their families were intimidated. this is the kind of thing we previously saw with the cowardly leaking of videos and the fining of khadija ismayilova of eur 23 000, which is almost 10 times the annual per capita income of the country, and shows the extent of pressure and the diversity of pressure on press and journalists, but also on opposition figures, civil society leaders and others. the overall situation concerning human rights and freedom is very dire: imprisonment, harassment, intimidation and fines. these are in direct violation of azerbaijan’s obligations stemming from its signing of the european convention of human rights and also the rulings of the european court of human rights. so as we look to a new agreement between the eu and azerbaijan, it is important that we confirm our commitment to the conditionality of this partnership agreement, depending on democratic reforms, respect for the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. they must be at the core of the agreement and we should not brush over them. there are also conditions before the consent of this house can be given at a later stage. so in the meantime we should a look to a renewed partnership agreement and as these human rights defenders are being systematically harassed, we expect nothing less than the european commission and the high representative/vice-president, ms mogherini to condemn the human rights violations in azerbaijan in the strongest possible terms, and to join us in calling for the release of journalists, opposition figures and political prisoners alike.
madam president, this morning dutch journalist, ans boersma, was unexpectedly expelled from turkey, and the question is whether we are dealing here again with another example of how journalism is silenced in turkey. i would like to request that president tajani contacts the turkish authorities to ask for the reasons for her expulsion since no other reason was given than vague security concerns and links to terrorist organisations, and to once again highlight the concerns of this house when it comes to press freedom in turkey.
the european union is a political force, a political force, a political force, and it is not a political force. a large majority of this parliament voted for the exemption of customs duties so that rice from south-east asia can be imported cheaply into europe. warnings from producers in italy, for example, were ignored. and then when asian rice floods european markets, people are screaming murder and fire. this is a striking example of the sham capitalism of the european union. instead of promoting trade between the two countries, which was the original objective of post-war european cooperation, the union is doing great harm to its own agricultural operators by granting such exemptions. i would like to say to the commissioner: stop that. stop favoring all sorts of so-called developing countries. stop working against european farmers. stop imposing all kinds of european laws and regulations and return power to where it belongs: the member states. i have shortened it a little and i agree with the honourable member that the hammer may well be ticking for discipline's sake, but if someone is only ten seconds over his speaking time and the occupation is a handful of members of parliament - there are not even ten of them - then you could be a little more flexible.
thank you for asking. what's most hypocritical is that you ask that question. look, of the 751 members of the european parliament, there are less than ten present and if you listened carefully, i have just recorded it for the italian farmers, so the italian farmers are well defended here. what about the hypocrisy? yeah, i could have said that a hundred thousand times. it's as hypocritical as the plague here and it's not just in regards to the rice. that is particularly true of the european union's policy of regulating and interfering in matters as we know it. i think that the member states are perfectly capable of concluding all sorts of much-needed agreements on their own, bilaterally or multilaterally, without having to put an umbrella on top of them, which can never be suitable for everyone. so leave it to the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have to conclude that, since the vote on my report in september, things in hungary have actually only got worse. hungarian citizens have every reason in the world to take to the streets and they deserve our continued solidarity. let me list for you some of the developments of this autumn. mr timmermans has done so as well. the central european university has to move to vienna because the agreement with the state of new york is not going to be signed; homelessness was made a punishable crime; a new administrative court is being set up, overseen by the justice minister; the former macedonian prime minister, sentenced for corruption, got refugee status in the blink of an eye; 450 pro-government media outlets were merged into a single conglomerate; and the parliament passed the ‘slave law’. internal memos of the hungarian government became public yesterday and they show what we all know: they are stalling for time. they are flooding their colleagues in the council with paperwork and they suggest cooperating, but what they’re doing is stalling for time. now that is not a surprise, but now that this is official, this demands that the romanian presidency come forward with its timetable. hungarian citizens have the right to protection and the right to know what you’re planning to do. european voters have the right to know what their political leaders are going to do. so i ask you to take that responsibility, to invite me to the council and start a real process. to my colleagues in the european people’s party – some of you are there, i appreciate that, a lot of you are not there – i continue to appreciate that you voted for my report, but what have you been doing since? where is your sense of responsibility?
for the enf group turnout in the netherlands in the 2014 european elections was 37%. the turnout in the elections to the national parliament in hungary was 70% and half of those votes went to mr orban. these are percentages, mr president, which our colleagues dare not even dream of. what's the difference? here in the european parliament - and i have seen this in the past few weeks - we are talking about teenage pregnancies in peru and about press freedom in nigeria. president. - that is not in the interests of the citizens of europe! orban, on the other hand, is concerned with the security of his country, with protecting the borders. he takes good care of the people in his country. that's the difference! someone, a prime minister, who takes good care of his people does not deserve procedure 7. no, he deserves a statue! i would therefore like to make an appeal and ask you if there is any budget left in the budget to erect a statue to orban.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, since the beginning of the year, tensions between mainland china and taiwan have risen again after leaders from both beijing and taipei restated their positions on this issue. we europeans have immediately confirmed where we stand: we want to encourage dialogue between mainland china and taiwan, and we regret that cross-strait relations have remained frozen in the past two years. we maintain our ‘one china’ policy. this means that we recognise the government of the people’s republic of china as the sole legal government of china, but at the same time, we have an interest in developing closer relations with taiwan. our cooperation and dialogue with taiwan are getting more intense on a broad range of issues – and this is because we very much respect taiwan’s system of governance. it is a system based on democracy, the rule of law and human rights. in many ways, the european union and taiwan are like—minded. so we have always encouraged taiwan to be an active player in international affairs. in short, we do engage with taiwan even in the lack of diplomatic recognition. we europeans have a strong interest in peace and security in asia. we are very distant geographically, but we know that tensions in the far east can only have a negative impact on our own security, as well as on our trade and our economies. also for this reason, we keep following closely all developments around the taiwan strait. in recent years, both sides have taken a tougher stance on the possibility of a cross-strait rapprochement. beijing has cut high-level channels of communication. since 2016, china has increased the diplomatic pressure on taiwan to limit further its international space and to convince taipei’s diplomatic allies to switch recognition to beijing. on their side, taipei’s leaders have explicitly refused the formula of ‘one country, two systems’. at the same time, economic and trade relations between the two sides have been flourishing – and mainland china is now taiwan’s main investment destination and trading partner. against this backdrop, we europeans have asked both sides to avoid actions and words that may increase tensions around the strait. we have always encouraged mainland china and taiwan to engage constructively with one another, and to restart dialogue between them. we are willing to support all initiatives aimed at promoting dialogue, cooperation and confidence-building between the two sides. i am really glad for the european parliament’s focus on this issue and for this debate. we should take all opportunities to promote a more positive dynamic between mainland china and taiwan, while also seeking closer cooperation with taiwan where our interests and values converge.
for the ecr group on the second day of this new year, the presidents of china and taiwan provided verbal fireworks. the eu must use all its resources to maintain the status quo in relations between beijing and taipei, so that the situation does not develop into a cold war. a combination of domestic problems for china's political elite led president xi jinping to show strong leadership on january 2 in the face of the notorious nationalist trauma called taiwan. meanwhile, the danger of escalation, of increasing chinese military pressure on taiwan, is looming. there are clues to that. western and regional counter-pressure is really needed here. in contrast to president xi's assertion that the taiwan issue is an internal matter, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are not at stake for taiwan's 23 million people alone. no, three of the eu's core political values are at stake here at the same time. we are also in the middle of this! that is why we must be fully committed to beijing, to make clear where we stand, and also to taipei, to support taipei.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, according to international law, one can argue that the republic of china (roc), often referred to as taiwan, has never been part of the so-called people’s republic of china (prc), often referred to as china or mainland china. this would mean that prc claims that it has sovereignty over taiwan are invalid. that could be said. however, both the prc and the roc have maintained a status quo. that status quo has made it possible to have cross—strait relations and has secured peace in the region, so i’m for that status quo. the status quo has been broken by china’s leaders. chinese leader, xi jinping, said on 2 january 2019 that the use of military force is an option for the so—called reunification of taiwan with the motherland. other pressures include economic and political sanctions and isolation. alde does not accept the use of military force, or the threat of the use of military force, and other blackmail. the taiwanese people should be able to determine their future. the eu, together with the united states, should protect taiwan and its democracy. china should know that the use of force, the threat of the use of force and other pressure will have serious consequences for china itself.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, some of us expected this debate, along with the resolution, in march, but here we are. quite sadly, we could actually be having a debate about eu-us trade relations on almost a weekly basis if we look at what is going on these days. a truce was reached last summer, but the illegitimate us steel and aluminium tariffs remain and the trump administration continues to block the appointment of judges on the world trade organisation (wto) appellate body. only this week, president trump threatened the eu if it does not follow the us on banning trade with iran. it is important that we stay on our own course and continue to move forward with rules- and values-based trade agendas and plans. working together with like-minded partners like canada, new zealand, japan or australia, we continue to raise the bar to protect rights, the environment, to instil high standards and principles and new sets of rules for trade in the digital age. i welcome the initiative launched last week on e-commerce at the wto. i call on all those allies in the us to join our ongoing work to strengthen and reinforce the multilateral trade system. there are many. in the meantime, in the dealings with us administration, i support your work, commissioner, in bringing forward focused trade talks with the us on the removal of tariffs on industrial goods, but not on agricultural products, and on the mentioned conformity assessment. it is not ideal, but it is the best option for now and it is certainly important to keep the dialogue going.
in writing. it is of the utmost importance that we continue to talk to the united states about our trade relationship. i believe that the european union should be in favour of an agreement which does not focus solely on industrial goods but also takes into account workers and the environment. a possible trade agreement must therefore be social. although the dialogue must continue, the eu cannot do so at any price. the eu cannot be put under pressure by us president trump, who is constantly threatening to impose tariffs on european products. because that's not an equal relationship. the united states also continues to impose import duties on european steel and aluminium. in my view, the european union will not sign an agreement while these tariffs are still in place. finally, i am concerned about the us commitment to include agricultural products in this new agreement. let me cut and finish: i want to keep the american chlorine chicken out of these negotiations.
i take the floor to address the main concern, which is that tech giants like google have a monopoly position and are taking power for themselves. the power to control our data, the power to buy out competitors. the power to influence democracy, directly or indirectly. the spread of knowledge and power must be the starting point of competition policy, and by tackling the monopoly of these tech giants we can put an end to the situation of unhealthy power. that is why i have also reiterated in the report that the google search engine should be separated from the other internet services in order to create a level playing field. it seems ambitious, but it's certainly nothing new. the american company microsoft has previously been forced by the european union to release separate versions of windows. the european commission previously concluded that google is abusing its position and power to benefit its own services. so breaking up google is a logical and just next step.
mr president, it is now 14 days since mrs asia bibi was finally acquitted in pakistan of a charge of blasphemy. the supreme court of pakistan has finally exonerated her after nine years on death row. the problem now is that no one knows where she is. ms. bibi and her family would like to leave pakistan, but her lawyer has also lost contact with her. and i know that you have had occasional good contacts with the pakistani government. so my request to you, mr president - you have also spoken to the lawyer and so has mr weber just before the new year - is that you will urge the pakistani government to release mrs asia bibi now and allow her to go to any country she wishes. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, mr zīle has asked me to make a few remarks on this. firstly, this report has just been discussed in the committee on transport. there was broad support, including from part of the socialist group. and furthermore, if you just read what is in the report, it is clearly stated that this is not about a total liberalisation of the bus transport market or about the suppression of the rights of people working in bus transport companies. on the contrary, the report includes all sorts of safeguards to ensure that existing good systems in bus transport are maintained and that new bus transport systems are properly checked for their impact on workers, on the region, on the quality of transport. in short, a whole set of measures has been laid down in that report and stamped on the transport committee. i would therefore like to see this report on behalf of mr zīle remain on the agenda.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wanted to draw your attention to the following. on thursday, we have an urgency resolution and indeed it is now titled ‘the situation in chechnya, and the case of oyub titiev’. for those who are not aware, he is the director of the human rights and civil society organisation memorial, an organisation that has won the sakharov prize before. the persecution of mr titiev is of grave and great concern. it’s very important that we address it. there have been colleagues who have added other important topics to the text. i don’t want to engage in a hierarchy of the gravity of human rights violations, but i do want to draw your attention to the risk of mismatching the title with the substance of the resolution. i think that that could be confusing with negative consequences for all involved and that would defeat our purpose. so, to avoid this kind of confusion and to realign the title and the substance, i would suggest that we simply speak about the situation in chechnya.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, thank you very much. let us talk today about the eu's most expensive fiasco, and that is the vat system, the european vat system of 1993. that's a gold mine, a gold mine for criminals, con artists and terrorists. because every year, 50 billion euros, 50 billion euros, goes from taxpayers to these fraudsters. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). and that's what bothers me about the eu. the people of the european union, the citizens, pay the price of taxes, and the eu lets that money flow freely to criminals. the eu must do something about this. and she's not doing it because she knows that she's had this problem in her sights for a long time. president, the eu can do it. the commission can act quickly. the commission can skip procedures and rules to get something done very quickly. it has proved that in the appointment of mr selmayr. thank you, sir.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. as you can imagine, farmers are very concerned. in 2018, 165 sheep were killed in my country alone. dna tests have shown that this was done by wolves. this is a matter of great concern, especially in a country like the netherlands where space is very limited and where man and animal live very close together. commissioner, do you agree that now that the wolf population has increased, it is time to evaluate the situation and review the status? and when was the annex to the habitats directive last revised? the situation is not static, it is dynamic. what opportunities do you see for local or regional management in densely populated areas? i would ask you, commissioner, to take a balanced decision in good time and to update the annex where necessary, so that good management is possible and a good balance is found between man and animal. thank you.
president. - the wolf is a major problem in europe, and we have spoken about it many times, commissioner vella. the european commission has not yet produced any guidelines. the wolf hunts continue. or are they actually wolfhound hybrids? in schleswig-holstein, the green environment minister albrecht is even going to have problematic wolves shot, and he is right. the wolf is no longer threatened in its survival, but threatens other endangered habitats, plants and animals, which even the national park de hoge veluwe natura 2000 area warns us about. why does the commission not point fingers at naive regions in the netherlands, for example? why are there still no guidelines to manage the wolves that are causing real damage to livestock? so let's get this show on the road. the slaughter of sheep shoots and the threat to vulnerable ecosystems are unacceptable. article 16 and particularly article 19 of the habitats directive are being ignored by activists and officials alike, whereas article 19 has been obliging european countries and the commission since 1992 to update the annexes to the latest developments. and that never happened. commissioner, i have to ask you... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you, chairman. if we want to make progress with artificial intelligence, we actually have to get a little smarter ourselves first. because if we don't do anything, china will be the world leader in artificial intelligence by 2030. and i see you looking a little surprised, because i don't want china to be the world leader, i want europe to be the world leader. and that is why i am so pleased with this report. because i want europe to invest in our entrepreneurs, in our whizzkids. those are our doers. they are producing inventions that will make our lives easier, more interesting and better in the future. these people are going to make sure that i will be driving a self-driving car to strasbourg in 2030. those who do so deserve our support, support from europe. and that's what i'm here for. thank you, sir.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president. commissioner, this report on sustainable crop protection pays a lot of attention to integrated crop protection. i think that is important, because integrated crop protection is based on preventing the emergence of diseases and pests in crops. what the report shows is that the finger is being pointed at the countries of the european union for not doing enough. i would also like to point the finger at ourselves, because a lot of european rules make integrated crop protection difficult. i will give you a few examples. first of all: the breeding of the animals. it is extremely important that we breed new crops that are more resistant to diseases and various pests. the breeding industry is very much in flux, and there are various innovations to improve that breeding. unfortunately, european legislation and regulations do not allow for these new innovations. a second point that is very important is soil health. i find it ridiculous that the european nitrate directive should encourage the use of manure at the expense of the use of animal manure. thirdly, initiatives to improve soil quality are being taken in several countries, including the netherlands, in the case of the veldleeuwerik foundation but these are not given enough scope by the rigid greening measures in the current common agricultural policy. the authorisation and use of micro-organisms and low-risk medicines is further complicated by a poor and outdated authorisation procedure. and finally, we should pay much more attention to precision agriculture to be able to detect diseases and pests faster and deal with them more adequately and precisely. thank you, sir.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, mr president. sustainability and pesticides, those are actually two words that don't belong in the same sentence. poison is not sustainable. toxins that were used in the time of our grandparents are still in our environment, in our food, and in our bodies. agricultural toxins pollute our waters, they pollute our soil, they poison our health and they damage biodiversity. a new study, published in the journal of biological conservation, shows that 40 percent of all insects are threatened with extinction. bees, butterflies and beetles are on the endangered list. the disappearance of these insects in turn has major implications for the rest of the biodiversity and all the animals that eat these insects. consider the grassland birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, and bats. the main cause of all this is the way we produce our food. industrial intensive farming is destroying our ecosystems, the same study concludes. the use of agricultural pesticides is explicitly mentioned as one of the main causes of biodiversity loss. the question is not how to use poison sustainably. the question is how can we shift to safe and truly sustainable production methods: organic production without agricultural pesticides. the present agricultural policy is still very far from that. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important report. as we saw last summer, fresh water is not a given and large areas of the european union have been affected by drought. so i also find it interesting to look at alternatives to irrigation, in addition to groundwater and surface water. reuse of treated waste water can make a significant contribution to this. up to 6.6 billion cubic meters may be available if we can start using treated wastewater. i think it is very important that we have good criteria to guarantee food safety and public health. in the interests of sustainability, i think it is important to consider whether we can start reusing waste streams, such as water. in addition, there is another indirect effect, namely that there are already member states using treated waste water. in the context of the internal market it is important that we have european rules on this. the products produced by those countries already using this treated waste water are also in the supermarkets of other member states that do not yet use treated waste water. i therefore think it is important that we take a european approach to this problem in order to avoid problems of public health and problems of distortion of competition. thank you, sir.
the right to crossborder care is one of the most important achievements of the eu. in particular, in border regions, such as my own beautiful limburg, residents are the ones who suffer when access to care is restricted by the borders of their own country. the right to cross-border care has not come about without a fight. ordinary people like mr decker and mr kohll from luxembourg have had to fight all the way to the european court of justice to get reimbursement for their care abroad. they've done us all a tremendous service in that regard. but our work is far from over. patients must be helped as well as possible, as quickly as possible and as close to home as possible, even if it is on the other side of the border. so we need to do more to make that easier. we need to do more to remove annoying bureaucratic obstacles and make cross-border care truly accessible to everyone. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the promise of ‘never again’ dies in syrian prisons. those were the words of josh rogin in the washington post last week. he referenced the extraordinary evidence of the torture in assad’s death facilities. a brave syrian citizen called ‘caesar’ smuggled exactly that evidence out at the risk of his and his family’s life. so now we must play our part, at last, because i agree with those who say that europe is too much of a payer and not a player vis-à-vis the war in syria, and it has to change, because we still lack a common eu strategy. and of course the sudden us change of direction in syria has major consequences while isis is not defeated. and i hear a repetition of the words ‘no military solution to the war in syria can be found’, but of course that doesn’t in and of itself change the fact that military moves do create realities on the ground that we must be realistic about. so i think we need to put pressure on the warring parties, particularly to protect civilians in and around idlib, people who were forcibly displaced from other parts of the country in the first place; aleppo and homs now risk being trapped and targeted again. we must also make sure that what we do in terms of adopting sanctions vis-à-vis syria is also implemented. we have targeted sanctions, for example, to hold to account individuals without punishing the entire population, and we have to make sure that our broad package of sanctions is smart and that they are upheld. we heard of belgian companies shipping tonnes of chemicals to syria which may have been used to create weapons, and italy rolled out the red carpet for ali mamlouk, a security official who is not supposed to enter the eu. we are not credible if we don’t live up to our own commitments. and lastly, briefly, in lebanon, jordan and turkey, the pressure on local communities is growing and young and vulnerable people pay the price. it is very urgent to address sexual exploitation of girls and child labour, and avoid them falling into the hands of criminals and militias.
madam president, the foreign policy of nominally candidate turkey can hardly leave the eu untouched. this is certainly true of ankara's interventions on the syrian battlefield. two turkish military campaigns, in 2016 and 2018, have transformed the enclaves of jarabulus and afrin in northern syria into turkish military economic protectorates. insiders speak eloquently of a "turkish republic of northern syria in the making", thus a continuation of the turkish republic of northern cyprus. turkish statements in support of syria's territorial integrity are merely lip service. the top priority for ankara is to contain the "kurdish danger" at any cost. in the meantime, madam president, i am hearing from the christian side distress calls about northern syria. turkey would be seeking, with or without militias, to purge the area of christians. commissioner, how do the eu's interests in syria compare with turkish interests and interventions there? you've already said something about it, but very briefly. thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it’s a great pleasure for me to be here today and to discuss with you the commission’s 2018 report on bosnia and herzegovina. let me express my gratitude for the work by parliament’s rapporteur on bosnia and herzegovina, cristian dan preda. let me start by reiterating our strong commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s identity as a single, united and sovereign country, with a strong european perspective. following the elections on 7 october 2018 and recalling the conclusions of june 2018, the council expects bosnia and herzegovina’s leaders to engage constructively in the government’s formation at all levels, in the interests of all citizens, so that the country moves forward with reforms and progress on the european path. bosnia and herzegovina’s eu membership application of february 2016 represents a strategic commitment to advance towards the eu, but needs to be translated into comprehensive results on the ground. these results cannot be achieved without functioning institutions. we welcome the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina’s common message of commitment to the country’s eu path and its determination to cooperate in this respect, a message that was clearly sent during the recent visit to brussels on 29 and 30 january. we welcome the adoption of some eu—oriented reforms, such as the one on excise duties. however, we share your concerns that much time has been lost on divisive rhetoric and pre-electoral campaigning. this has significantly slowed down the pace of reforms. a number of important high—priority areas remain. we need to do more on the inclusive socio-economic reforms; on the reforms in the field of the rule of law, including the fight against corruption and organised crime; on public administration reform; on the fight against radicalisation and terrorism, and we need to further improve cooperation between all levels of government. we share your concerns over the lack of progress in the area of freedom of expression and the media and we expect bosnia and herzegovina to intensify efforts to address the issue. we regret that no compromise was reached with regard to amending the electoral framework ahead of the october 2018 elections. as pointed out in your resolution, all political leaders now need to assume their responsibilities and find a domestic solution with regard to the federation house of peoples. electoral reform should be approached in a spirit of dialogue in order to move the country towards european standards. turning to the opinion process, let me welcome the commitment of the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina to send very soon the additional answers to the commission’s questionnaire on bosnia and herzegovina’s eu membership application. we welcome the results already achieved through the coordination mechanism on eu matters and we encourage bosnia and herzegovina to make further use of this important tool. we expect the authorities to remain actively committed to the opinion process at all levels and to provide any further input deemed required. let me recall that when preparing its opinion, the commission will pay particular attention to the implementation of the sejdić-finci ruling, acknowledging that the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina lists bosnians, croats and serbs as its constituent peoples, along with the others. the council reiterates that the principles of equality of all citizens and of non-discrimination should be fully warranted. we will continue to support the country in its efforts to implement reforms and to advance further on its european path. they should keep to the course. the council will revert to bosnia and herzegovina’s eu integration process on the basis of the commission’s expected opinion on the country’s application for eu membership.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i really would like to thank the rapporteur, cristian dan preda, for the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina and i would also like to thank you, mr preda, but also some of your colleagues for your tireless work in and with the country. we are far from having some concrete results but i think we share the same interests and need to push the country, not only in the european direction, but with the consequence to improve living conditions of people in the country, because this is exactly what counts, what is relevant and what should be our – once again – tireless aim. in that respect we welcome the text, which is a balanced one and which is largely in line with the commission’s april 2018 report on bosnia and herzegovina. it reflects well the situation in the country, including the challenges and outstanding issues on bosnia and herzegovina’s european integration path. i welcome the support this resolution provides for the eu approach towards bosnia and herzegovina. this is particularly essential at a very critical moment in time for the country and its newly elected leaders. a time when the commitments taken before the elections need to be translated into concrete reforms. a time when governments need to be formed across the country and a time when the divisive rhetoric of the campaigning stresses the need for reconciliation, unity and consensus building around the country’s objective, meaning eu integration. this was the main message to bosnia and herzegovina’s presidency members whom president tusk, president juncker, high representative mogherini and myself had the opportunity to meet two weeks ago in brussels. this was their first joint trip abroad as newly elected presidency members, a token of their commitment to advance towards the eu in line with what the citizens of their country demand. and this is in the beginning of a critical year for bosnia and herzegovina during which we would like to see irreversible progress towards the european union. at the same time, we particularly stressed to presidency members that comprehensive reforms, as done by other countries at similar stages in the process, are required. this is not only about providing answers to our questions stemming from the opinion questionnaire – which we expect soon and in a consolidated manner, may i say very clearly – but delivering on rule of law, fundamental rights, electoral reform, public administration, good governance, as well as further harmonisation with eu rules and norms. the capacity of the newly elected leaders to deliver will be the yardstick upon which the eu will assess bosnia and herzegovina’s readiness to further advance towards the union. in this respect the commission is fully dedicated to advancing bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective. our upcoming opinion on the country’s application for union membership will provide for the first time a comprehensive roadmap of reforms for the country to carry out, for the first time against the entire obligations eu member states have. we are stepping up our technical assistance in the country with dedicated field support in the key areas of rule of law and fundamental rights, including the monitoring of a number of high—profile cases. the commission has also now doubled the financial assistance envelope for bosnia and herzegovina – eur 80 million per year in grants for the period 2017-2020 – to support the country implementing a number of countrywide strategies, such as on energy, environment or rural development. and this in addition to the support provided as part of the regional envelope, notably on connectivity agenda projects. to conclude, i would like to stress that the commission will continue to support bosnia and herzegovina as we believe that the future of this country lies in the union. at the same time, there are outstanding challenges which need to be seriously addressed, requiring substantial efforts from the country’s elected leaders. we, the european union institutions, can help and provide guidance, but it’s only they who can deliver on their citizens’ aspirations. in this respect i will visit sarajevo, most likely at the end of march to take stock of the progress towards forming governments and resuming with the necessary reforms. but the thing that is necessary and which we have to emphasise and to stress again and again is: everybody in the country tells us they are all in favour of the european perspective, but what we are missing, what we lack is really consistent and coherent action on the ground by all political parties and ethnicities really to move in a united, coherent way towards this goal, which is a goal of more than 80% of citizens in this country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. turkey and its role in the balkans". relations between ankara and sarajevo figure prominently in this analysis. these are a natural consequence of the close personal and political ties between president erdoğan and his bosnian counterpart izetbegović. with this observation i come to paragraph 40 of the solid report by my dear colleague mr preda. it is a question of the growing influence of foreign powers in bosnia and herzegovina. my question to the council and the commission is this: think about the title of the scientific analysis mentioned: "is turkey a fair broker or a competitor for the eu in bosnia and herzegovina?" the establishment of a new pro-turkish, pro-erdoğan lobbying organisation 'union of european balkan democrats' in bosnia underlines the political importance of this issue. a clear european response is even more important, as growing turkish influence in the balkans will fuel tensions between ethnic and religious groups. and that's definitely not the path we want to take. thank you.
i have three serious objections to the investment protection agreement with singapore. this agreement again includes a section on isds, investor-state arbitration. yes, i know you call it something else, but that's what it is. we know that it allows companies to file claims when governments make justified decisions that threaten their profits. and the taxpayer pays for it. that undermines the rule of law and democracy. secondly, the agreement provides exclusive rights to investors but does not contain enforceable rules to achieve the sustainability objectives. this puts pressure on the interests of man, animals and the environment. thirdly, the agreement explicitly allows foreign investors to buy government bonds. in the event of a crisis, these investors can then block restructuring of government debt. the way in which parliament and this commission put the interests of multinationals in general and the financial sector in particular above the interests of citizens is unacceptable. nearly half a million people have signed a petition in recent weeks against isds to stop these kinds of treaties. my appeal to you is: stop the isds. stop these trade deals. and stop the class justice for multinationals. thank you, sir.
mr president, commissioner malmström and colleagues, goods have been exchanged for centuries and over greater distances as modes of transportation connect ever further places around the world. and now increasingly also, because of digitisation, services can be offered anywhere. an interpreter from australia can translate a book written here in france or a software coder in india can design a website for someone in brazil. so, clearly, the eu – or we – do not create trade, but what we can and should do is ensure that rules around trade create a level playing field that is predictable and fair, and that we act with the aim of having higher standards and sharing the benefits. presidents xi and trump show us very clearly what the alternative looks like: with no respect for rules, uncertainty damages markets and people’s livelihoods. i think it’s a little bit ironic in this context that i hear such harsh criticism from some of my colleagues, not so much about trade, for example – trade with china – but rather about the trade rules and agreements that we’re trying to agree on. so i’m glad to see those who are showing leadership. i’m glad, too, for our singaporean partners, with whom we’ve been in the process of negotiating for no less than ten years. singapore is a major modern open hub for trade services and investment and a strong partner in the south-east asian region in general. but this agreement will not make the singaporeans become exactly like us and neither will we copy them. as always, we are responsible for setting our own laws and standards. i’m very happy to see that we have been able to convince the singaporeans to replace the outdated 13 agreements that included investor-state dispute settlement (isds) chapters between different member states of the eu and singapore and replace them with the investment court system. we pushed for that and it’s good to see the results. it guarantees more transparency, maintains our right to regulate and creates an appeals mechanism; a greater role for civil society. so those who dislike isds like i do should actually support this modern agreement with singapore. i think together we can send a signal – at a time when nationalism and protectionism and populism are rising – that leadership supports openness and that we stand together with partners for fair and rules-based trade.
author. – madam president, i will not repeat what has been said by all my colleagues because i think we are all on the same wavelength. i would just like to make a couple of remarks about what the eu institutions are doing. first of all, like my colleagues, i’m pleased and proud that we have our very first resolution on intersex people on the agenda. i think that is a strong political signal. at the same time, we’re also looking at the resolution on the lgbti list of actions that was adopted by the commission at the start of its term of office. in my view, these two resolutions should be a kind of legacy to the next european parliament, and also to the next commission, and a call for stronger action – even stronger action than has been taken in the past five years – because i think that a lot still needs to be done. a lot has been achieved, but if i look at the council, for example, i note that at one of the last council meetings the member states couldn’t even agree on a joint statement on lgbti rights. hello! we’re still in the middle ages. some countries are blocking it. i also note, like other colleagues, that the anti-discrimination directive has been blocked for more than 10 years now. but i note, too, if i look at our own house, that the president of our house, mr tajani, is one of the keynote speakers at the world congress of families, which is probably one of the most homophobic, anti-choice events that you will find in the world. one of the co—organisers is an organisation called citizengo, which is also one of the champions of the so-called nashville declaration, which is the most homophobic declaration in the world. it has also been signed by some people in this house. i do not feel represented by mr tajani showing up at such an event and then arguing here for lgbti rights. that is hypocrisy if ever i have seen it.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would also like to thank the commission very much for this excellent document and for its excellent contribution to this debate. this is one of the first documents in which the commission indicates that there is an urgent need to address the multifaceted ecological crisis we are facing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the environment and the environment in the european union. it's all in there. i really thank the commission for that. as mr bullmann has said, fortunately attention is also paid to social inequality, because the two go very much together. but then we come to the big question, the same question i asked after the presentation of the long-term climate strategy. how are we going to translate this into concrete action, not just tomorrow, but today? if i look at the proposal for the multiannual budget and see that we are setting policy and money until 2027, that is seriously outdated. that is old politics, if i compare it with these two excellent documents from the european commission. let's face it, 2030 seems a long way off, but it's tomorrow. and we have very little time left to turn the tide. so my specific question to the commission is: when can we expect concrete proposals? and can we expect adjustments to the multiannual budget? the agricultural policy as it is now being discussed does not meet the criteria set out in this document. why not green all public procurement so that we can create a market worth over 2 000 billion euros a year? the same rules apply to the structural funds as to the agricultural policy: they don't meet the criteria we're setting now. and it is very nice that commissioner katainen mentioned 'sustainable finance', but it is now almost all about transparency. the crucial question will eventually be: how do we encourage green and socially just investment? and how do we discourage investment that is not? the economist also says that the market cannot do this alone. that's why we need your help so badly, not tomorrow, but today.
the rapporteur for the opinion empl. thank you, mr president. in 2014, commission president juncker promised that people could count on a social union. the so-called social aaa status is the cherished desire of many. i believe that the proposal will help to achieve this. the administrative burden on the regions is being eliminated and the flexibility between the funds is being increased. this will benefit all europeans, especially those in the regions that are in difficulty. however, i am convinced that social aaa status cannot be achieved unless we make the link with the european pillar of social rights more concrete. that is why i support the amendments from parliament which ensure that the child guarantee is enshrined in order to eradicate child poverty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. these changes are part of the process of bringing social europe a step closer. thank you, sir.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). this policy is being implemented close to the people by the member states, regions and cities, always in partnership, as mrs krehl has already mentioned. we're working everywhere, including to increase visibility of green, growth and jobs. it's good that we're stopping with the abundance of logos that are on all these signs, and that we're putting a lot more emphasis on what people are achieving in these projects. let the star shine. they are proud people in social projects, economic projects, and so on. let's give them the power. luckily, we've got some money set aside for that, too. it is also good that we increase the synergy between different union funds, for example horizon europe, and allow for transfers where necessary. the epp's main point is that it is not good that parts of europe are becoming depopulated. you just see a population flight in rural areas, while other parts of europe are booming and developing fast. that's not good. that is not the image we have in mind of cohesion. we want a europe which is balanced, forward-looking, solidary and competitive, and which activates people. spending a third of the eu budget requires good rules of the game and sound economic management. the rapporteur, mr krehl, and mr novakov have reached a compromise in which they have accepted the idea of giving substance to this macro-conditionality, not by deleting it in payments, but by not making any new commitments. i call on you to support that compromise. two further comments. first, amendment no 429, which is not a new one. that is about regions that fall into a different category and then suddenly go backwards. i'm asking for support. finally, i ask the commissioner to take action for the regions affected by brexit and which will have to bear the additional costs.
the cohesion policy, with the european structural and investment funds, is the main investment policy of the european union. with hundreds of billions in these funds, we want to achieve results towards a smarter, greener and more social europe, a europe that connects the frontrunners and the laggards. however, it is essential to renew the rules for the use of the funds, by giving member states the voluntary choice to use part of the money differently, for example through investeu, by expecting member states to adhere to budgetary agreements, by establishing a strong link between the funds and the european semester, but also by allowing the cohesion fund to contribute to the realisation of the trans-european transport networks. only then, with a more modern cohesion policy, can we really make the investments we make with these funds pay off in the future. thank you, sir.
president. - i have just visited a regional development project in bulgaria. there, with nine million euros in subsidies, a medieval fortress has been converted into a plastic castle. the purpose was to make it a tourist attraction. but anyway, you get the idea. there's no dog coming in. i arrived there at three o'clock on a saturday afternoon and a handwritten entry card was issued and i had visitor number one. the biggest blow actually came at night. then i had a conversation with professor gradev. he is a professor of culture and religion at sofia university. he told me that the 10th century foundations of that fort were demolished, and then filled with concrete, so that the plastic elements could be put on top of them. that's a sad but apt metaphor. the eu subsidizes the demolition of national historical foundations, not only in a physical sense, but also in a transference sense, in a social sense, in a sociological sense. the only precondition for this is that it must cost a lot of money. and who's paying for it? the taxpayer.
mr president, tax morality is a great asset: the realization that it's right to personally contribute financially to the society that includes you, a society in which you feel safe and free. but in the netherlands, taxes have never been so high and the population has therefore been experiencing a loss of wealth for two decades. the only reason we are talking about taxation today is that this parliament actually wants to have a european taxation. in addition to national taxes, citizens are also being forced to pay for the party here, a party that is also becoming more and more expensive. moreover, the european union is not even a society. once thought of as a vehicle for trade, it is now a deranged international legal system. nobody feels at home in it. fewer and fewer people feel free to do that. it is therefore right that the european union does not have the right to levy taxes on its own. mr president, that must remain the case. the taxation is already too high.
mr. speaker, 26 billionaires, including jeff bezos, mark zuckerberg and bill gates, own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. the tech giants are the biggest companies in the world and pay the least in taxes. so the 99% of the working people are fighting against the 1% of big money and big data. fair taxation, fair sharing, and so on. we must restore that principle, so that everyone pays a fair share of the tax burden, including multinationals and billionaires. europe can do this in two ways. firstly, by structural reform of the corporate tax system. the current systems are outdated, not up to the challenge of cayman funding or bermuda intellectual property. from now on, countries will have to decide where companies make their profits and therefore where they pay their taxes. the consolidated basis, the cctb, is precisely a proposal for this and europe must choose it. because why are reforms about health care, unemployment law and pensions, and not about income tax? secondly, by taxing the digital economy. the inequality that the largest companies in the world pay the least in taxes is crying out for action. the digital era for advertisers like google and facebook, but also for uber and airbnb, cannot wait. we have to do it now. but tax pirates like the netherlands, ireland, luxembourg and malta oppose this and want to continue the tax race, supposedly for their own benefit, but ultimately for the benefit of the big corporation and its shareholders.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. but europe should not be a dam against foreign investment, because many of these investments also contribute positively to employment, to innovation and thus to our economic growth. but we have to be realistic. the first steps we are taking here today are good, but ultimately we must move towards a mechanism whereby the european union is united against uninvited guests. it's the only way to protect knowledge, safety and the workers.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i am a little surprised, but mr škripek is apparently coming later. first of all, i would like to thank massimiliano salini for this, albeit highly technical, job. i think he has brought it to a splendid end. as mrs bulc has said, there are major financial interests in this dossier, but also interests in terms of data and fairness. because it does matter whether you charge tolls based on distance or based on time units. at the same time, we are currently seeing a proliferation of toll systems in the member states of the european union. we have recently received the opinion of the advocate general of the european court of justice. and in wallonia, for example, we are having quite a bit of problems with tolling at the moment. my question to the commissioner is, in fact, particularly, now that we have this technical dossier by massimiliano salini: what about the case of mrs revault d'allonnes-bonnefoy? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport infrastructure is properly managed. is there any progress on this in the council? that's the most important issue for me right now.
president. - we shall vote tomorrow on the amendment of the so-called eets directive. i am very pleased that we have managed to get this part of the first mobility package to the finish line. i hope that the other parts will follow soon, because european road transport needs clear rules. the eets directive is an important step towards better harmonisation of the various electronic toll systems. for eets providers, the market for offering services is becoming more interesting. this means that we can drive across all european countries by car or truck with less red tape, and ultimately have one eets provider, one toll booth and one invoice. countries are not obliged to levy tolls. but when they do, eventually, payment and enforcement across the border becomes easier. it is also important that automatic number plate recognition is included in the new regulation as a possible technology for toll collection. this technique is reliable and is already widely used in europe. it is also important that those who fail to pay tolls should not be put off by the existence of administrative frontiers in europe. we facilitate the cross-border exchange of information in the event of default with safeguards for privacy. finally, mr president, the amendment of the eets directive is important in order to introduce in future a charge for use and pollution in road transport. we are therefore putting european road transport on a sound and sustainable path.
madam president, my thanks go first of all to the rapporteur, mr roberts zīle, and also to the two spanish shadow rapporteurs, mr louis de grandes pascual and mrs inés ayala sender. we all know that the opening up of the international bus market in spain is a major hot item. access to the international bus market is part of the internal market. and we want to open up the internal market, which we are proud of, to international competition. but that opening must be accompanied by certain safeguards. we must not only opt for flexibility, but also respect the so-called public service contracts and, above all, the rights of workers. it is extremely vexing that mr cramer says that we cannot assess this dossier before we have assessed the first mobility package, because at the same time the greens are blocking that first mobility package. so this kind of hypocrisy is not going to help us. i think that zīle and his team have now found a good compromise and an adequate conclusion for the internal and therefore international bus market.
blue-card question. – madam president, i will speak in english now. my question to ms anderson is the following: what is her view on the future of international bus companies and workers in the next 20 years? ms anderson is always blocking every new development and always hiding behind the social rights of the workers. there are no new developments. we have unfair competition from outside the eu. if we don’t change, we have no future. what is her answer?
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. if we talk about mr putin, about distant lands or about sexual matters, the room is full. as we are talking about inland waterway transport, one of the cleanest and most forward-looking modes of transport, the turnout is considerably lower. in addition, the committee on transport always has speaking time after 10 p.m. on wednesday evening. perhaps you could consider that we might also like to speak on tuesday or wednesday mornings. but seriously. we agreed in 2011 to the so-called "modal shift": the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. inland waterway transport is the most underestimated form of transport in the european union at the moment. i am extremely pleased with the action programme of the european commission, and in particular mrs bulc, to give wider attention to inland navigation. it's supposedly a boring, technical subject. but when it comes to digitisation, self-powered ships and sustainability, inland waterways is the most forward-looking form of transport. we need major infrastructure investments. many locks are too small and too old. the major ten-t projects, such as the seine-scheldt link, are taking too long. and it is a real challenge, also for the next parliament, to bring inland navigation into the political spotlight.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed. and the commissioner says: "in europe, almost 100% of all animal transport complies with european rules". he said it again this morning. and that's not true at all. it's a big lie. organizations like eyes on animals, animals international, animal welfare foundation, animals' angels, have written hundreds of reports over a decade filled with evidence of transporting sick and injured animals, outright animal abuse, overcrowded trucks, lack of water, transportation in extreme temperatures. mr. president, these are not incidents. this is the daily practice in europe. last summer i went to slovenia and croatia to see for myself. trucks occasionally ran to supply crumbling ships. the animals were dirty, injured and fainted from the heat. and as an absolute low point, we saw in the harbor of rasa a young bull that was caught between shore and ship, and was loaded on one leg by a crane on board a ship. the animal was then forced on board by electroshock. i'll never forget this image. commissioner, we showed you these images as well. are you lying there, like me, awake at night? and what did you do after that? have you already initiated infringement proceedings against croatia? why not? - why not? what else do you need to get you into action? you are aware that newborn animals are transported for days on end, without knowing how to use the facilities and therefore without being able to drink? you are also aware that the millions of animals that are shipped to the middle east and north africa end up in a literal hell after a long, long journey. when will you take the concerns of millions of citizens and parliament seriously and take action? we must work together to stop these terrible animal transports and we can start doing so today. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
author. – mr president, the chechen director of sakharov prize—winning memorial, oyub titiev, has been in prison for over a year now on trumped—up charges, and we expect a verdict any day now. the risk that human rights defenders in chechnya are taking is illustrated by the fact that titiev’s predecessor, natalya estemirova, was brutally murdered, and others face constant threats and intimidation. so today we call for the release of oyub titiev and the dropping of charges, and we urge the chechen authorities to respect their own laws and constitution and at least every citizen’s human and legal rights. the harassment of ngos and journalists really has to stop, but we also need to hold to account the perpetrators of the worst human rights violations through a european ‘magnitsky act’. it is urgent. i call on celebrities who think it is fancy to take money from a dictator to perform or to be present to stop doing that and to consider the money they make that way dirty money.
author. mr. speaker, in november 2017, president mnangagwa came to power in a coup. in the summer of 2018, there was an election in zimbabwe. in the six months before he was officially elected, we had a chance to force concessions on the country and we failed to do so. and what have we seen now, january 2019. the mnangagwa government has cracked down on the opposition, and it seems that the days of mugabe have returned. ngos, opposition members are threatened, taken from their homes. people are being locked up, and it's not clear why. the population is being beaten down with heavy violence. and what is our response? the question for the commissioner is what we can do to improve the situation here.
author. – mr president, all the promises of reform that came with the appointment of mohammed bin salman and his lofty vision 2030, and that were met with much wishful thinking all around the world, have been definitively crushed by actions such as the systematic violations of women’s rights and human rights and by the lack of basic freedoms that people face. women are effectively second-class citizens in saudi arabia, and that is unacceptable. more specifically, now, the arrests and torture of the brave women’s rights activists – and we name all of them in this resolution – are absolutely appalling. their families are being intimidated and are facing travel restrictions because their passports have been revoked. this is absolutely appalling. we need to condemn, at the highest european level, these actions by mohammed bin salman and all the saudi authorities involved. more importantly, however, these actions and the violations of human rights in saudi arabia have to have consequences. we need a european magnitsky act to hold perpetrators of human-rights violations to account individually, and we need to stop the export of the very surveillance technologies, built in europe, which are used for repression in countries like saudi arabia. it is high time that we responded, in our treatment of saudi arabia, not to the beautiful words that they say, but to the ugly deeds that must have consequences.
mr president, i thought that i was in the european parliament: apparently it is the italian parliament! i would like briefly to come back to the question of ms reintke because you passed over it very quickly. you were listed as one of the keynote speakers at the conference that ms reintke referred to. we asked you to clarify this by way of letter. after we sent the letter, your name disappeared from the website as a speaker but we have not received any written clarification. i do insist that we get a written clarification.
mr president, i think you just made it worse because it may well be that you have other commitments in the meantime, but you were not just invited, you were listed as a keynote speaker at a conference of known sexists, homophobes, people who are campaigning against the values of the european union. maybe if they put your name on the website without your knowledge, that would be an explanation, but we would like to get a letter back from you.
mr president, yes indeed, i would like to speak against. i think it is unhelpful right now to change the title because we’re looking for a global new sanctions regime, and this is not focused on one country specifically. we’re also trying to build a coalition in member states and in this house, and putting into the title the name ‘magnitsky’ is not going to help that process. it is also out of focus as magnitsky mainly focuses on corruption and financial fraud, whereas we’re trying to look at violations of human rights. there is no european legislation right now that actually has a name in it. our legislation has boring names and there is actually no european member state which officially has the word ‘magnitsky’ in its sanctions regimes. nor does canada. only the us has that, and that country does not allow redress and does not allow democratic oversight. i don’t think we should take an example out of that case, so we would like to have the title as it stands.
thank you, mr president. late payment or unilateral contract change: these are some of the practices that producers face on a daily basis. this week we are voting on legislation against unfair trading practices, an important step. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the commissioner, for their contribution. the most essential part, in my view, is that the producers can primarily lodge a complaint confidentially. member states are now moving to implement this properly and to appoint a food chain arbiter. i very much hope that each member state will soon have an independent, visible and approachable food arbitrator with power. someone who builds a trusting relationship with the sector and who, if necessary, sits at the kitchen table to hear what is really going on.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i come in here a little bit breathless, my coat is still beside me. sorry about that. i have therefore heard only half of what the european commission said. the reason was quite simple: i was still facetimeing my phone to manage my eight-year-old son's schooling. so that's what women in their professional lives encounter when they're trying to balance their work and their home life. i think we should discuss that in this debate. so i am not talking about the tip of the iceberg and the three nominations on the agenda which some groups think should be dropped. i would also remind you that the same groups you are about to hear, and in particular the italian representatives from those groups, when we had an irish woman who was very well qualified for a position in the ssm, they preferred an italian man. in other words, this debate is unfortunately very much a symbolic debate, because gender balance seems to be a matter for certain groups when their nationality is not on the list of candidates. if that is the case, the preference is still secretly given to a man. so many of the people who will be speaking later in this debate have a big mountain of butter on their heads. where do we start? the european commission has already said: the problem is that in those high-level positions, there's often too small a pool of well-qualified women to choose from. it is our task, here in the european parliament, to ensure that these women are there: in banking, in government, in politics, in business. this starts with making it possible to combine work and private life. it starts with good child care and it starts especially with setting a good example for our sons and daughters. how is it that five, six, seven-year-old children in kent, at the time they are asked in school to draw a surgeon, a fireman and an astronaut, that more than 50 of the 60 children draw a man and are shocked when a female astronaut, a female surgeon and a female fireman then enter that classroom? so it's already going wrong there. we must start there by educating our children properly, by making that pond as big as possible, so that we do not have to have this symbol debate.
mr president, i think mr sośnierz has just proved beyond any doubt why we cannot possibly leave it to men to run the world. we’ve been having this debate for many years now and every time we hear the same argument, ‘this time the appointment of the male candidates should go ahead, but next time – really, really next time – we’ll have a gender—balanced ballot paper’. but we’ve been hearing this for many years and it is just not credible anymore. what is also interesting is that this is not about men being better than women or women better than men. it is a known fact that diverse teams perform better. we are talking about something very serious here. we’re talking about governance and oversight of the financial sector. so why do we settle for an inferior team rather than having the strongest possible team to oversee this sector? we’ve also heard some of our colleagues say that there are not enough qualified female candidates. come on, people. we are living in the european union with over 500 million citizens and you’re telling me there are not sufficient candidates. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr pellegrini that it is a pleasure to see him here today. we have met a couple of times in the past year following the very dramatic events in your country, the murder of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová, but i will come back to that in a minute. i was visiting your country as the chair of the rule of law monitoring group, and i went to slovakia with some critical questions, but it also made me feel that we have a special bond as europeans. i have a special place in my heart for slovakia and the slovaks now. i very much agree with one thing you said, and i think that this is key: there is no eastern europe or western europe or central europe – there is only one europe. it is about time for everybody to start feeling that, particularly in western europe, where they are still blind on one side. i very much welcome your speech; it shows leadership in europe. it was a very pro-european and ambitious speech, and it clarifies what alde also feels: the european union needs to be much more than mere technocratic intergovernmental cooperation. in the world of today, we need a fully-fledged political union to give an answer to all the political challenges that we have, because that is the only way to remain a global leader. your speech was excellent, but as we all know, true leadership is not in words – it is in actions. like many countries in europe and in the wider world, your country is witnessing deep divisions, and forces are pulling it in different directions. i just referred to my visit as the chair of the rule of law monitoring group, and i have seen that there are many positive developments in slovakia. i have seen that the institutions are strong and that civic engagement is extremely strong in slovakia, and i commend the slovak people for that. many concerns remain, however, and new ones are also emerging. i would urge you to show the same leadership in tackling these concerns, because in a sense you hold the key. you hold the key to the future of the european union, and the choices that you make will determine not only the future of your country, but also that of the european union as a whole. you can show which forces will prevail in the european union. you have a choice, and this will be a burden on your shoulders, i warn you. you are at the fork in the road. do you want to join and strengthen the ranks of those who are wrecking the european union, those who put short-term electoral gains, or even material gains, before the general interest – or worse, the ranks of those who are corrupt, even connected to organised crime? or do you want to go down in history as a statesman, somebody courageous and wise in difficult times, who led his country forward, making it a role model for others, a leader in the europe of the future. so do you choose the old europe or the new europe? i hope, and trust, that you will choose leadership for the future, and i shall be very specific. i would strongly recommend that you break ranks with mr fico, because he is the old slovakia – you are the new slovakia – and show the world that there is truly a new hand at the helm in slovakia. you can also show them that the visegrád four is staunchly pro-european and not the vehicle of reactionary nationalist autocrats. it is very important that those guilty of the murder of ján and martina are brought to trial – not just those who actually carried out the murder and were arrested, but the brains behind it. that is crucial for trust in the slovak authorities. i also count on you to make sure that the nominations of nine constitutional court judges happen very shortly, because the constitutional court is effectively not operational. i would also urge you to reverse the changes to the media law, because in practice it means severe restrictions on freedom of speech. finally, i would call on you next month to decide to extend to cooperation with europol, and not just for the investigation into the murder of ján and martina, but also the other parts of the investigation that have been split off by the ministry of justice into corruption and fraud and all the other things. in other words, i have just put a burden on your shoulder and i am asking you to choose. i am counting on your wisdom. you can count on the european parliament, and i can also pledge my personal commitment in the next period to working with you and with the civic forces in slovakia to make sure that you can provide this leadership in the european union.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister of slovakia, mr pellegrini, to this house. i i want to say this in advance certainly do not agree with his view of the eu. his political colour is not mine either. but still. i very much appreciate the fight against corruption that the prime minister is waging in his country. this is a very important step in the future of slovakia. slovakia is a member of the visegrad group, and is even its current chair. i would like to say that the visegrad countries' policy on migration can count on my full support. it is the visegrad group that holds up a mirror to the eu, that shows the eu how it should be. the eu is failing miserably in its approach to illegal migration. instead of providing watertight borders, the eu comes up with the loser's solution, namely legalizing illegal migration. the eu says it stands for european values, but welcomes migrants who hate those values, welcomes migrants who despise those values and would rather have sharia law in the eu as soon as possible. it is the visegrad countries which are really defending european values, which are standing up for a europe which defends its freedoms, its human rights. i therefore wish to express my support for mr pellegrini and the slovak government in their rejection of the un migration pact. in slovakia, people are well aware of the horrors of totalitarian rule based on a totalitarian ideology. until 1989, the people were suffering under the communist regime. they, the slovaks, know what it is like to live in fear, to be silent about what you actually think and feel. such totalitarian ideologies must not be allowed to gain a foothold in europe. it is therefore entirely right that the central european member states should oppose the islamization of their country. a religion which claims to have absolute control over the political sphere is therefore a totalitarian ideology which is incompatible with everything the eu stands for, with all european values, with all european human rights, with all european freedoms. i asked him: fake news has been mentioned here many times, including by mr pellegrini and by various speakers. it is freedom of expression, which is at the heart of our democracy. it is precisely by constantly shouting that fake news must be tackled, but at the same time presenting itself as the one who decides about it and thus stifling any criticism of policy, that is worthy of a dictatorship. that is why i am warning mr pellegrini not to support this eu which is so dangerous for freedom of expression. i call on the commission to follow the example of slovakia in tackling corruption within its own ranks. to remove mr selmayr from his post. to stop the flow of billions to corrupt countries like ukraine and half of africa, where corruption is the most normal thing in the world. i call on the commission to take the example of the visegrad countries' resistance to illegal migrants who are in no way compatible with our societies. let the eu close its borders, both between member states and with third countries, and let the eu reject the un migration pact. i therefore call on the commission to give the highest priority to the identity of the member states, so that internal security can be put in order. this european commission, which cannot act, must resign!
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i just wanted to ask, in accordance with rule 59(3) of the rules of procedure, to vote first on the amendments, and also i would like to ask for a roll call vote on the procedure of this decision.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it’s hard to believe that it’s been almost nine years since i first submitted amendments for a european magnitsky act, and the urgency for us of having an eu-wide smart mechanism to hold human rights violators individually to account has only become more pressing since then. given that the un security council and the un generally is often paralysed and blocked by vetoes, the eu should show leadership and join the coalition of the willing – if you want to look at it that way – between the usa, the uk, canada and the baltic states, which already have ‘magnitsky’ laws. targeted human rights sanctions, including asset freezes, entry bans and also the calling out by name of perpetrators of the worst human rights violations, whether they be state or non-state actors, can make a huge difference, including in terms of differentiating between the punishment of individuals versus hitting entire populations. it is the elites who often participate in these human rights violations who enjoy buying real estate in europe, sending their children to our top universities or going shopping in our wonderful capitals. we cannot allow such ‘business as usual’ to continue for the murderers of journalists or the rapists of women. when we talk about sanctions regimes, let us also look at ourselves critically because, despite sanctions being in place, ali mamlouk from syria, on our blacklist, visited italy, companies from the eu built the kerch strait bridge, chemicals were exported from belgium to syria – and the list goes on. clearly we’re only as credible as the weakest link in our own behaviour. concluding, a horizontal human rights sanction regime is essential, but it can never replace the need to hold perpetrators to account through criminal prosecution in domestic and international courts. it is high time to end impunity and, if we adopt this regulation, it would also be a small step towards justice for sergei magnitsky.
president, in my previous life and also as a member of the european parliament, i spent some 18 years working on sanctions against zimbabwe, against the government of zimbabwe. those were so-called smart sanctions. yet every year in february, there was a battle in the council between the european member states to extend those sanctions for another year. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it's not that simple! if we see that the dutch government took an initiative last november, very low profile, without publicity, to get member states on the same page to come up with such a regime of targeted sanctions, then we can see how difficult it is. you can all suggest that it is simple and that if we just give it a name, it will give us extra rights. it's not true!
president. - i welcome this proposal. the protection of human rights is one of the most important core values of the european union. unfortunately, the eu does not always show itself to be unconditionally united against those individuals who violate these rights. the current proposal to deny access to the eu and freeze funds to those who commit serious human rights violations is an effective instrument. this proposal has two major advantages: the innocent people of the country are left out of the picture and the human rights abusers are dealt with where it hurts them most. moreover, this new plan ensures the neutrality of our joint sanctions by depoliticising the sanctions process. that makes the european union more effective. i therefore look forward to the commission's final proposal, so that our union will be even better able to defend universal human rights than it is today.
rapporteur. – mr president, sitting in a cell for 17 months without knowing what you are being accused of – that is reality in today’s turkey. osman kavala, a leading figure in turkey’s civil society, and one of the many victims of president erdoğan’s witch-hunt against his critics, was arrested in october 2017. osman and 15 others heard the charges against them last week. they are being held responsible for an attempt to overthrow the government and are facing life imprisonment without parole if found guilty. the 657-page indictment talks of the spontaneous wave of anti-government gezi protests in 2013, which have now been reframed as an outcome of an international conspiracy to unseat the government. the evidence against kavala: in some intercepted calls, he is offering to lend a plastic folding table and in another call, he agrees to send some packages of fruit juice and milk. the indictment includes no evidence of osman or any of the others planning the protest, let alone an uprising. one could have a good laugh about this if it wasn’t so serious. this is the level to which turkey’s democracy has sunk. and now, what is the answer of the eu to all of this? what is the answer to blatant human rights violations in our neighbouring country? during the last five years, the european parliament has taken the lead in not only speaking out, but also asking the commission and the council to use all available tools to send a firm signal to president erdoğan and prevent further backsliding and, on the other hand, to show turkey’s citizens who adhere to values of freedom, human rights and the rule of law that the eu stands by their side. but so far, our european leaders have bitterly failed in doing so. turkey has disappeared from our attention. it is no longer in the news, except when eu nationals are concerned. it seems that our government leaders have accepted that the situation in turkey is as it is. our calls for respect of fundamental rights have not only fallen on deaf ears in ankara, but also in eu capitals. the red lines of this house have all been crossed. severe human rights violations continue. the rule of law has been dismantled. turkey is the record holder of jailed journalists and on top of that, the new constitution consolidates erdoğan’s authoritarianism. that is why we asked the council to formally suspend the accession talks with turkey. not that anyone was seriously considering accession under the current circumstances, but continuing talks on eu integration with president erdoğan is a charade. we want to hear what the eu will do for osman kavala. what will the eu do for selahattin demirtaş, the opposition leader who was imprisoned for two and a half years, for the other members of parliament in jail, for the tens of thousands of people who have been jailed without a fair trial, for the lgbti activists, for the saturday mothers who are no longer allowed to protest, for the brave turkish women who, on 8 march, went out on the streets and were met with rubber bullets fired at them by the police? the silence of the council is fuelling erdoğan’s authoritarianism. it is also fuelling the disappointment of turkey’s democrats. it is time to come up with a strategy. you can start on one this friday, when you will have a meeting with turkey’s foreign minister. president, allow me also after these five years, to thank my colleague shadow rapporteurs who have been working on this file for the last five years in good cooperation. i very much hope that tomorrow we will be able to unite this house again and to give a strong signal to our european leaders.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission is aware of the problems and is prepared to take action. see also the in-depth analysis by dr. salim çevik, "erdoğan's comprehensive religious policy", fresh from the press, published last week in stiftung wissenschaft und politik. read it ! i urge the council and the commission, as well as the governments and parliaments of the eu member states, to investigate thoroughly and report on diyanet's activities on european soil. we shall have the opportunity first of all in the new commission progress report. this is due to the serious suspicions of espionage, surveillance and recruitment of agents by diyanet officials. at the end of paragraph 11 the report calls on the turkish authorities to combat effectively all manifestations of anti-semitism in society. such a call does not serve the tiny jewish minority when the report simultaneously silences the presidential promotion of prominent figures who are making outrageous anti-semitic statements. a missed opportunity! the rejection of this amendment too. it's no use!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the annual debate about turkey’s progress towards eu accession has become more difficult and painful each year. it is now a report on regress. a lot has happened over the past year and, while it’s absolutely legitimate to hold the perpetrators of the failed coup and the attack on the grand national assembly to account, nothing justifies the overreaction that continues to haunt turkey: hundreds of thousands fired from their jobs or arrested; abuse of the state of emergency and counterterrorism measures; limitations to press and internet freedom; and trumped-up charges to accuse civil society leaders, such as osman kavala. all in all, core principles are at stake: the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers and the rule of law. these developments impact disproportionately on the opposition and on women, lgbti people, journalists, religious minorities, human rights defenders and other minorities. but everybody in turkey, whether openly or quietly in their hearts, knows what is going on and fears what may yet come. a fear of what could get worse still seems to paralyse the commission and the council too. or is it the cynical outsourcing of the sheltering of refugees – for which turkey deserves our support – that risks overshadowing everything else? i believe that our credibility is at stake and i insist that our words and principles must have meaning. as we warned in previous years, with the adoption of the constitutional reform package, a presidential system is now in place, one that lacks checks and balances, not so much according to us but according to the venice commission. so we need to be honest and principled. when we continue our relations on trade, defence, foreign policy or asylum, we must always work with turkey on the basis of the rule of law and respect for human rights.
i should like to thank the rapporteur in particular for this report. mrs piri, it is not easy to get a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs in this parliament. you have done that, and that in itself is a compliment. it is also much stronger than the cackling and the moaning we hear from the european council. i am very sorry, however, that the rapporteur proposes to suspend the negotiations, but not to proceed to the end of the negotiations. i think that if you listen to the colleagues, if you hear over and over again why turkey is moving further away from the european union every year instead of getting closer, you have to draw the conclusion that you have to go for an alternative partnership. so instead of closing the door, we should work on this alternative partnership, rather than trying again and again to revive these negotiations which are already dead. i am very sorry, then, to say to mrs piri that she says in her own amendment no 21 that: yes, we are going to suspend it, but don't worry, turkey, in the end your european ambitions will stand. so she's blowing a little hot and cold at the same time. that's too bad. (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, minister, and my colleagues. let me first come back to what the council, as the presidency, has said – because you say that all channels of communication must be open with turkey. we all agree. but the channel of accession – that’s the one that we should close – because it has become a ridiculous channel. minister, you said, ‘we take note and we continue to follow’, and i am very happy to hear from you in your conclusion that on friday’s meeting with the turkish president, you will put human rights at the top of the agenda. i’m very happy to have that commitment. but also, i want to hear from the council, how are you going to help turkey’s democrats? will you provide extra funds for human rights defenders? will you put respecting fundamental rights as a key conditionality, including in the trade relationship? i really hope that the council will come up with a more sophisticated strategy than we have seen so far in how to deal with turkey. i didn’t hear more than five colleagues in this room who agree with the strategy of not having any consequences to the accession process. we have a big majority in this house to call for the formal suspension of the accession talks – to stop talks – i want to make it clear – to stop talks with president erdoğan about accession. it doesn’t make sense. they have become totally ridiculous and incredible. but i also heard some colleagues from the far right and some members from the epp group who want to go one step further – not only stopping the talks, but also taking away the candidate status of turkey. now, i’m surprised to hear this. for 10 years, we had a turkey rapporteur from the epp who never made this call. if it’s really about human rights violations then stick with the majority in this house calling for the suspension of the accession talks. perhaps i’m still hopeful that in the years to come, in the decades to come, things in turkey will improve. i hope we all share that things can change inside turkey and that means we shouldn’t put a final stop forever on talks with turkey on eu integration.
president, either minister siod really speaks all the languages, or she does not listen to parliament. i expected you to explain in your introduction why 28 member states oppose the european commission implementing the law. this european parliament has negotiated with the council twice - and i was the rapporteur - on the revision of the directive on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. this parliament has also been given the wind of the council when we were not quick enough with rules to combat terrorism after the attacks on charlie hebdo and the bataclan. this parliament is therefore also very surprised that, while the european commission is doing what it should, namely protecting us against terrorists by tackling their financing, you are making an argument which is: we don't understand the procedure. perhaps i could invite you to speak at the end of the debate to explain to us what the problem is with saudi arabia, panama and the virgin islands on the list.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the migration crisis has been one of the deepest crises in the history of the eu. if one thing has become clear in recent years, it is that we need to strengthen our european response and the new asylum and migration fund will play an important role in that. i thank commissioner avramopoulos for proposing that this fund be tripled. it is something the epp has asked for and i’m very happy that the commission delivered. however, to deliver real results, we don’t only need sufficient resources; we also need flexibility to adjust to the challenges in front of us and we need balance between the objectives served by this fund. i understand a little bit the frustration of the commissioner in his speech because the flexibility and the balance that was there in the original proposal seems to have become a bit lost along the way in this house. the text in front of us focuses on legal migration and integration while minimising any attention on returns and fighting illegal migration, for instance, by introducing mandatory spending requirements for all the fund objectives, except for fighting illegal migration and ensuring returns. moreover – and the commissioner said this – if we want to have a real, effective and holistic approach to migration, we need to cooperate with countries outside the eu: countries of origin and countries of transit. that is absolutely crucial. yet, the amendments in front of us in the european parliament will make it nearly impossible to cooperate with third countries on these issues. i am disappointed that a majority in this house seems to think that fighting illegal migration, ensuring the return of illegally staying third-country nationals and cooperating with other countries is not important. for the epp, it is important. all the objectives of the fund are important, that’s why we have tabled amendments for the vote tomorrow – to make this a more realistic fund, and we would like to call on all colleagues who share that realistic view to support us in the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today is a very special day because not only is the future generation literally knocking on our doors but they’re watching us, they’re looking over our shoulders to see if we are taking care of their future. by organising the climate marches for children they made it clear to us that it’s their future that we are destroying at the moment. and are we fully aware of that and do we act accordingly? i’m afraid the answer is no – and not only on climate but also on the systematic destruction of nature. the eu will by far miss its own objectives on the biodiversity strategy but neither the commission nor the council have taken any measures in order to turn the tide. but then climate – yes, we have legislation in place, and yes, we do increase the part of the eu budget dedicated to climate change, but is that sufficient? no, we all know it’s not. we should move towards the 55% in 2030. that is something that is absolutely clear. but we should also act in all other policy areas and this monday, i’m afraid, again, we proved that we are letting the future generation down. we voted on sustainable finance and i’m afraid that, by the right-wing parts of this house, we voted out all ambition and that is extremely important because all human action starts with investments and we applaud every percentage of green investments. but it’s worth nothing if we do not green all the other investments; it’s fighting a running battle. as we say in the netherlands, it is mopping up with the tap open. we will only succeed if all investments are green and that is the way forward. today, the future generation is sitting there. we only have a limited amount of time. in a few years’ time they will be sitting here and let’s avoid that we will be sitting there and shamefully watching how they are trying to clean up our mess. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, thank you for this debate. it’s about time we talked again about climate change. but i think a lot of people who are here now are getting a bit tired of people saying ‘oh, we want to thank you, thank you for being here, thank you for telling us’. they don’t want thanks. they want action. they want politicians to act. ten years ago, i went into this european parliament – coming from science, going into politics – because i noticed that politicians were not acting, and i thought it’s about time that they started acting. and sorry, commissioner, sorry, council, you were only talking about 2050. if i follow all those marches on the street, the last time i checked i didn’t see anyone ask: ‘we want a 2050 vision’. all are asking: ‘we want action now’. we need to do more as europe, we need to step up our ambitions now and what we hear is only: ‘we are going to talk about a long-term strategy’. mr liese is even saying: ‘let’s do first a long-term strategy, don’t talk too much about action, because maybe that will shake up some countries!’ that’s the purpose! we’re talking about a climate crisis here. we are talking about action that needs to be done. (applause)as one of the slogans says: if climate had been a bank, it would have been safe by now. (applause)so it really is about time also that we need to do more and i think this is really what we can see – it’s the climate marches we see on the streets, not just the strikes by the youth, but also the big marches. last sunday in amsterdam, 40 000 people on the street; in brussels two times 70 000 people; people on the streets asking for more action. that is a social movement, a social movement that we should not let down. they are calling on europe to do more. and if you want to talk about the future of europe, this is about the future of europe. the future of europe is green jobs and that is another comment to my dear colleague peter liese. when you are talking about future jobs you should talk about the green transition. (applause)other regions in the world are moving, are investing – look at california, but also look at the solar investments in india. look at the electric transportation in china. they are moving. the german car industry is investing more in electric transportation in china than in germany and that’s because there they do policies and not in germany. (applause)so we need to step up and we need to take action and we don’t only need to talk about targets – and by the way it’s good that people are getting annoyed because this is the debate, right? because everyone is always saying that we do the same and we all have the same targets, but this shows we don’t, because if we go beyond the targets then suddenly you see that the vested interest of the fossil industry is still hugely protected by this side of parliament. (applause)as my colleague said, on finances we still only try to say ‘okay, don’t talk about the negative impact of our financing, only talk about a little green corner’. on agriculture we don’t manage to really make sure that agriculture becomes green. on transportation, we are still lagging behind on new and future transportation, and on climate proofing of our investments we’re not delivering. we really need to step up. tomorrow is our first vote for higher targets. but after that, these elections, these european elections, will be about climate – about real action, because it’s time to act instead of talking. (sustained applause)
the british company new financial announced yesterday that more than 250 companies in the financial sector have already left or are about to leave the united kingdom. that is a change of 5 000 jobs. this will result in the departure of about £1 000 billion from the united kingdom. this is just about numbers we know. what happens out of sight, we don't even know. this is a major problem for the united kingdom. the same applies to this side of the channel. for example, the fishing industry or the transport sector. at the same time, we see that in the london parliament there is no majority for any approach to brexit. that means it's time for a new approach, for rethinking. the united kingdom must remain in the european union. we need a new deal, not a no deal. make the uk an offer, it can't refuse. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, rules-based trade is important for our open economies, especially because the majority of growth in the next decades will take place outside of the eu. but when we look at china, we see a country not respecting trade rules and sadly now, when we look at the united states, we also see an administration that has unjustly labelled the eu as a national security threat in order to justify steel and aluminium tariffs, while, of course, reminding us of our obligations under the nato alliance. it doesn’t quite add up, and the escalations in our trade relations with the us have serious consequences. it is therefore crucial to keep talking and to try to come to agreements. somebody has to be the adult in the room. for those in the house who do not want to support the european commission here, i hope you understand that it will be gladly explained by ambassador sondland and other officials of the trump administration as proof of the eu’s inability to make decisions, and that is not in our interest. instead, by supporting the commission opening negotiations on the basis of a limited scope (this is not the defrosting of ttip, it is the consequence of the agreement between juncker and trump) but spelling out very clear conditions on our part before closing them, we engage in the most meaningful way. i would also like to remind colleagues that they should not use the agreements we make with third countries as the weapons to beat those countries with, while we in fact lack the foundations of a bilateral agreement or negotiations with countries that we do trade with – think about china. let us be clear about what is to gain here, but also be very very mindful of what we could lose. my group will support the european commission, and i believe we have to be strong and united as europe, especially when dealing with the confrontations of the trump administration.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the face of the challenges of the future. the powers must go to brussels and the rules must be more detailed and more binding. this report on the european semester for coordination of economic policies confirms this picture, now that the whole socioeconomic field seems to be moving to brussels. the problems described in the report also show that the introduction of the single currency, the euro, has led to lower economic growth and higher unemployment than outside the euro zone. the eurozone is doing worse than the other member states, including the united kingdom. so the solution to this problem is very simple. just say goodbye to the euro and the system of centrally managed economies that was created for it. but such a simple solution escapes brussels and seems a bit counter-revolutionary. it is believed that, now that central control is failing, more central control is needed from brussels. for example, by setting up a european investment programme for jobs and growth, but subject to all sorts of societal goals, such as sustainability and inclusiveness and climate-avoidant behaviour. all this to prevent real growth from taking place.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for sending a straight signal to the council calling for the suspension of the accession talks with turkey, while at the same time also showing solidarity with turkey’s democrats. this was our final report of the past five years and i would like to thank, too, all the shadow rapporteurs for bringing parliament together every time on a clear stance. (applause)
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i shall do my best in the crowded atmosphere that still exists in this chamber. i think it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been able to reach agreement on this difficult and politically very sensitive matter. it is an important dossier because it concerns the stability of our financial markets and the banking sector. markets and a sector that are still vulnerable. in the eu, banks - do not be alarmed, ladies and gentlemen - still have some 820 billion loans on their balance sheets which are difficult or impossible to collect. these loans are large, invisible risks that can cause instability in financial markets in times of crisis. and of course, banks that have a lot of these kinds of bad loans on their balance sheets have a lot less room to actually finance the real economy. that may be an equally big problem. it is also a sensitive matter, because part of this 820 billion is made up of mortgages. loans to citizens, loans to farmers, loans to small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to finance the creation of new jobs. and it's not about abstract things or abstract amounts, but it's about someone's home, your business, your existence. and so it was clear to both co-rapporteurs that this problem needed to be tackled with urgency, with ambition, but in a responsible way. and i am convinced that we have succeeded in doing so. what are we gonna do? what are we gonna do? whereas in the past the ecb had to address banks individually on what they had to do and tell them to tackle those bad loans, now all banks are legally obliged to build up a bad loan buffer to fully cover these risks. depending on the type of exposure, this 100% obligation is already incurred after three years for unsecured loans, after seven years for secured loans, or after nine years for loans secured by real estate. and see how we take into account the fact that it's about homes and it's about mortgages and it's about people's livelihoods. of course, the ecb will also have the option of imposing an additional obligation on each bank and accelerating the process where necessary. and i realize that this is going to hurt some banks. but the epp and the cda would rather take difficult but important measures now than pass on the pain to the next generation. what i regret personally is that this legislation applies only to new loans, i.e. to the future, while banks, particularly in some countries, are still carrying a huge burden from the past. i think those bodies need to be out of the closet, too. so we're not there yet. this regulation should be complemented by a directive which tackles these old bad loans of the past by simplifying and facilitating their sale. we are working on this directive with the same team of co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs at the moment, hoping also to complete this process before the elections. all in all, we will be moving from a legislative proposal to entry into force within a year. that's quite unique for such a difficult and sensitive file and i think we can all be proud of that. europe has delivered here. i would therefore like to thank in particular the co-rapporteur, mr gualtieri, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation, as well as the commission and the council, both under the austrian and the romanian presidencies. and i thank you for your attention to this difficult, technical, but oh so important topic today.
the report on loss cover for banks follows the formation of the capital markets union, which spreads risks across member states. however, the dutch scientific council for government policy (wrr) concludes in its recent report "money and debt" that this spread of risks is actually fuelling instability. the wrr concludes that the stability of the financial system is undermined not only by excessive credit build-up but also by the uniformity, scale and interconnectedness of financial institutions. that is precisely what the capital markets union is aiming at. the wrr is certainly a well-known institution to the dutch. so i assume the rapporteurs are aware of this as well. so, mr president, the only question that remains is why the rapporteurs want this.
i would like to make two brief points. a number of colleagues have made comments on the european deposit guarantee scheme. i must therefore take a step back and remind you that we asked a lot of the european taxpayer during the crisis to save the banks, to guarantee that rescue and to guarantee a number of member states. and we said during that crisis, "never again". so the next time a bank needs to be saved, it's not the taxpayer, but the shareholder who will be the first to pay the bill. we have seen in practice that in some countries, when it comes to a bank rescue or a resolution, the state is the guarantor, and the taxpayer has to cough up. and i can imagine that, when there are such great differences between member states in whether or not to use public money to save banks, not every member state will be able to jump in and set up a single european fund for guaranteeing bank deposits across europe today and tomorrow. that doesn't mean there's nothing we can do. there is a good proposal to start with mandatory liquidity support for deposit guarantee. that is something that, as far as i'm concerned, we can start tomorrow. the problem is that some groups already want a guarantee that we will immediately go to the european pot. the recent rescues of banks in italy and the fact that some groups will now vote against this legislation on non-performing loans show that, unfortunately, the political support for this is not yet there, simply because in some member states the necessary risk reduction and responsible attitude are not yet there. that's one. secondly, i would like to reply to my colleague auke zijlstra, who has 'made' a 'nigel farage'. he intervened in this debate, gave a two-minute statement and then left. he thinks the legislation is too lax. he's from the netherlands and he's from the pvv. however, he was represented in these negotiations by a colleague from the enf group in italy, who gave me the following signal on behalf of his group: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i just counted it for a second. i think we spent about 20 hours negotiating physically, technically and with colleagues. the presence of the pvv and mr zijlstra in these negotiations has been zero minutes. i've had dozens, if not hundreds of emails as input for this legislation. the input from the pvv and mr zijlstra: i mean, zero e-mails. so if i may say one more sentence, which is my reaction to the pvv: either do your job, write me a letter and get in the debate, or shut up.
mr president, today we are talking about the creation of the european monetary fund and the so-called blessings of the euro. membership of the single currency presupposes member states with approximately the same gross domestic product per capita and similar economic conditions. this was not the case at all when the euro was introduced. the introduction of the euro was a big mistake and contributed to economic problems in the european union. examples of this are the excessive debt burden and weak economic growth. countries outside the eu and the euro, such as norway and switzerland, have suffered significantly less. the netherlands has already provided tens of billions in loans and guarantees to fraudulent countries such as greece and cyprus, countries which did not meet the criteria for joining the euro, the so-called convergence criteria. the euro is not money, mr president, it is costing us money. the european monetary fund should become a crisis management instrument. that is why it is even proposed to overturn the right of veto of the national parliaments. a small country like the netherlands has nothing to contribute. president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. we propose that the european stability mechanism be terminated as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you very much. i would also like to welcome commissioner oettinger. i hope he'll give our regards to violeta bulc. she's doing better, i heard today through the app, but still. i also thank my colleague, mr markus pieper, for the hard work he has had to do to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion. and the funny thing is, mr president, that this dossier has not been closed under the austrian presidency. but we are apparently a little late to discuss the outcome of the trialogue here. it is clear, mr president - my colleague from the econ committee, but also the commissioner has already said it - that we are dealing with a very important matter which has a lot to say internationally. moreover, the file has only become more important in recent months. we see different nationalist tendencies in the world. it is a great task, also for the european union, to keep international air traffic open. it's easier said than done. but keeping international air traffic open in a fair market - and that is what we are talking about here tonight - is very important. there's a lot of unfair competition. and there's illegal state aid. this is not just about kerosene and airstrips. it is not just the arab countries, but if we look at china, hong kong and even singapore, then our european airlines are facing unfair competition. i hope that this dossier will improve that position and bring about a fairer position.
in writing. it is good that european transport commissioner violeta bulc is bending over backwards about state aid to non-eu airlines, but in the meantime she completely forgets about the rights of workers within the eu. airlines like ryanair, which knowingly flout the labour laws of their pilots and cabin crew, can continue to fly unhindered through europe. it has to stop. we must deal with price-fighters who flout the rules and hide in another member state, for example by banning them from landing or preventing the opening of new bases. we're stopping the race to the bottom on wages, schedules and workload for the airline workers.
president. - our society, our economy, and our patterns of consumption and production must change fundamentally if the earth is to remain habitable. it is good that global agreements have been made on this in the un's sustainable development goals. but it must not be limited to fine words. we need to get real. - right now. there's no other option. there is no planet b. that climate policy is so lacking that thousands of young people are forced to leave their school seats and go to the streets, that should be a source of deep, deep shame, but above all, it should be a source of meaningful action. i hear the commissioner talking about a beautiful and comprehensive plan. but the fact that the old agricultural, fisheries and trade policies can continue to be pursued at the expense of the climate, biodiversity, food security, the welfare of millions of people and billions of animals undermines all the fine words that are being spoken in this house. tolstoy once said: "everyone thinks of changing the world, but hardly anyone thinks of changing themselves". and he was right. to actually achieve the sustainable development goals, we have to look at ourselves, and we have to produce less meat and less dairy, and therefore we have to consume less. the eu's destructive policies must be radically changed if the sdgs are to be achieved. - right now. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
president. - mr president, when we talk about sustainability in this house, we always talk about the environmental aspects. i would like to talk to you about the sustainability of society and culture. because it's undeniably under pressure. from the outside, by the migration of large groups of people from mainly muslim countries who have nothing to do with our culture, who do not want to adapt, who consider their own culture superior and turn themselves against our culture. but also from the inside. from the inside, too. president. - the left-wing parties want to eradicate as much culture and identity as possible from society. and culture and identity, those are the roots of our society. if you poison those roots, if you damage those roots, then the organism will die. so the next time we talk about sustainability here, i'd like to talk about sustainability of society and sustainability of culture. the survival of our western society. the survival of our western society - which is also sustainability - is based on the judeo-christian and humanistic traditions as we know them and as we want to preserve them.
president. - i thank the commissioner for his kind words. as many times as he has spoken here, those are really very beautiful words. but words, and especially beautiful words, only have real value if they are also acted upon. and i have some unfortunate doubts about that, about these sustainable development goals. i'd like to unpack two of them just to make it clear: number 14 and number 15. life underwater and life on land. or natural biodiversity, as it were. that's the whole point. we have a european strategy for biodiversity. and we had that long before we had the sustainable development goals. we think that strategy is so important that the european commission has also called it 'our life insurance, our natural capital'. billions of people in the world, and certainly in europe, depend on this natural capital, on nature. we have also known for years that we are not going to achieve the goals of our own self-formulated biodiversity strategy in the long run. it expires this year. in 2015, we got the state of nature report from the european environment agency, which showed that all the indicators were in the red. there have been published studies on the mass disappearance of insects. what has the commission done, but what have the member states also done? i don't know anything. in fact, we had to run fire in this house and speak out against the blisters to prevent the laws of nature from being weakened further. so, madam president, a very simple question to the european commission: what is the commission going to do to get even closer to achieving our own biodiversity goals ...?
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i would like to ask mrs hautala what she is personally doing for the environment. so what she's really sacrificing. so i'm not talking about subsidized electric cars or led lights. no, what you're really sacrificing. for example, do you take a cold shower every day? you're not flying anymore? do you have all the electrical equipment? don't you have any pets? you don't eat meat? what are you really sacrificing for what really hurts, what really hurts?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, our gsp system is a key example of how we use our economic power to leverage our weight and to bring about positive change for people in third countries, and the report that we’re adopting today illustrates how gsp beneficiaries have, over the course of six years, substantially increased their exports to the eu. but this kind of preferential access should not be taken for granted. it is attached to clear conditions, for example when it comes to improving democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and following the increasingly repressive behaviour of cambodian leader hun sen, commissioner malmström initiated a procedure to temporarily withdraw cambodia’s trade preferences, under the everything but arms scheme, and this is a very welcome move, that should be echoed by all member states’ commissioners, as well as the high representative in all their dealings with cambodia. and at the same time we cannot wait another second to initiate a similar procedure for myanmar. the ongoing killings, systematic human rights violations and the imprisonment of journalists, do not warrant the trade preferences that myanmar currently does enjoy. so, i believe it is very important that we use gsp in a good, but also principled, way and thereby maximise our global impact.
author. – mr president, we in the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, and she continues to work tirelessly, and with immense courage, to defend ordinary iranians in the many instances – the too many instances – where their human rights are not respected. in particular, she was the lawyer of the many women protesting against the compulsory wearing of the hijab, before she herself was arrested again, and imprisoned again, and handed the preposterous sentence of 38 years in prison and 148 lashes. this is inhumane and unacceptable, and high representative mogherini should publicly join our call for the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh. the obsession with nasrin sotoudeh on the part of the islamic republic’s judiciary and other authorities, and their insistence on silencing her, should only encourage us to hear what she is standing for – the universal human rights of all iranians – and she deserves our unequivocal support.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). what national security risk does reading the gospel, the bible, pose to iran? notice, the word of true spiritual peace in and by god. however, the wife of an iranian clergyman was sentenced to a double prison term of as much as ten years on this false charge. as a christian, i am deeply concerned about the intensified persecution of the christian community in iran. is it too much to ask the european union to also communicate clearly and condemn the iranian regime? in my hometown of apeldoorn, in the netherlands, a persian church meets freely. in iran, christians are no longer able to practice their faith fearlessly even in their own homes. at present, the public authority of the iranian clergy has been greatly diminished. the result of 40 years of hard-line rule. the eu should not support this iranian reign of terror, but all freedom-loving iranian citizens, such as the courageous mrs nasrin sotoudeh and her husband.
i am grateful to the president-in-office for his reply. on the initiative of my party, the establishment of an animal police force began in the netherlands in 2010. the animal police act against people who neglect and abuse animals, and also try to prevent animal suffering. the penalties for animal cruelty, poaching and similar offences and crimes have also increased in recent years. in addition, a special telephone number, called "1 4 4", has been set up to report animal distress. the people behind this hotline make sure that the report gets to the right authority. in total, there are several hundred agents active in the fight against animal suffering. after a few years, it has been found that reports of animal abuse have increased, and more and more offenders are being dealt with. in short, a good cause. the authors of the questions to the european commission are therefore right to point out that there are examples of effective animal welfare policies in various member states. as i said just now, the netherlands is on the right track in this respect. of course, there is always room for improvement. but the base is still there. it is not often that this happens, but i must compliment the commission on this. it seems that the light has finally come on and that the realization is coming that not everything has to be arranged in brussels or here in strasbourg. and that, mr president, is exactly how it should be. the dutch voter determines what animal welfare policy should be. it is a matter for national parliaments and the european union should not interfere in this area. national parliaments are well placed to take care of this themselves. of course, countries can share excellent ideas and good practices. they don't need the eu for that. respect the sovereignty of the member states. let countries decide what measures they want to introduce or not. let the people themselves, self-regulation and the industry organizations.
mr president, fish have consciousness and feelings. they may suffer pain, and experience anxiety and stress. and they suffer, and they suffer a lot in european aquaculture, which is nothing less than intensive fish farming. european fish farms slaughter over one and a half billion fish a year. in the sea, another three trillion fish die. and the way you did it is horrible. virtually all fish are slaughtered un-anesthetized and go through a long, long death struggle. cod can stay conscious for hours on ice or in the air. we let the gophers die in salt baths. the commission was to come forward with proposals to put an end to this as early as 2014. that's not what happened. there have been some reports in which you say that the welfare of fish in europe is in a bad way. but that's all there is to it. when can we expect concrete measures? your reports and your evaluations are of no use to these animals. that is why i think that the european subsidies for agriculture and fisheries should be abolished.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, indeed we are going to have a debate later today on the oral question that you just mentioned. a vote on this was originally foreseen on thursday, but that has been taken off the agenda, and we feel that the two should be together. we have a debate and then it should be concluded with a vote.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i know there are elections coming up, but i don’t think that we should be quiet whenever there are elections. as you rightly said, there will also be european elections shortly, which would mean that we cannot say anything about any country anymore. the resolution is extremely balanced and factual and i fail to see how that would be unduly influencing the elections. i really do not think there is any risk. the resolution is partly critical, but it also establishes that progress is being made, in particular in the two countries that you mentioned, so i really don’t think that there is a risk. this is a non—political issue. the resolution has already been voted on in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and that was before the first round of elections in slovakia. so i really don’t think that there is a risk, and we should not politicise these matters by taking it off the agenda. by leaving it on the agenda and voting on thursday as foreseen, we show that the rule of law is not partisan, it doesn’t belong to any particular member state, and it is universal. i think that’s what we should express. (applause)
mr president, this is about a tuesday vote we are going to have on the discharge. on the vote on the commission’s discharge report there are a couple of amendments tabled, mainly by our friends from the s&d group, about the commission secretary-general’s position. one of those amendments you have deemed admissible. however, you have said that another one, which talks about what the consequences should be for the position of mr selmayr, is inadmissible. if i read rule 170 where you can judge whether something is admissible, i fail to see how you can judge that this is inadmissible. this is a political decision which should be left to the house. therefore, i urge you to recall your decision in calling this amendment inadmissible and let the house vote on it tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, it’s true there was another amendment about suicide and that was ruled inadmissible. i am not referring to that, because i see the reasons why that could be called inadmissible. here i am referring to an amendment creating paragraph 258(d), where the amendment says: ‘given this new and serious situation, and recalling each recommendation on discharge for 2016, urges the european commission to take the necessary action to amend definitely the unbearable position of the current secretary-general, and this for all eu institutions’. so this is still about the position of the secretary-general and, as you just said, that is a political decision and should be left to the house. one part you leave to the house; this part not, and i think you have already just given the answer as to why this part also should be left to the house. i urge you to please leave it to the house.
mr president, let me start with some words of gratitude, first of all for the report and to the rapporteurs niedermayer and kofod for the excellent report, but also to the commissioner, pierre moscovici, who has used his five years tirelessly, taking every angle, every opportunity to put tax on the agenda and with success – so my personal deep appreciation for that. the issue at hand, mr president, is the growing inequality magnified by tax avoidance which allows the 1% of the rich and the big to shift the bills of schools and healthcare and other things onto the 99%; a growing inequality which is meeting growing resistance. it is time that we took our own political responsibility in the european union. in two ways: first of all we need a structural reform of the corporate taxation system. it has been put forward by the commission and it has been supported by the european parliament and now we have to bring it into the international discussion in the oecd. the european union has a united point of view which shows that apportionment of profit is a way to block the shifting of profits on paper, of shifting real activities. second, there is ample evidence that at least five eu member states are tax havens in everything but name, damaging other members in the union, depriving them of essential tax revenues. it is time to call a spade a spade, to call luxembourg, ireland, the netherlands, cyprus and malta eu tax havens. we are already listing tax havens outside the european union; it is nothing more than consistent and credible that we also label the tax havens inside the european union. therefore, let’s take our responsibility and vote for amendment 96 tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – let me give one example from the paradise papers: nike, based in the netherlands, paid 33% in tax on profits in 2007; in 2017 it was only 13%. during the crisis they saw their tax burden fall. do you know who paid more taxes? the people that work, that just have a wage income. so yes, the yellow vests would very much support this because its the big and the rich that benefit … (the president cut off the speaker)
deputising for the author. – mr president, it’s a pity that the council isn’t here, because i think the council should be part of this debate here today, and before i go into the oral question and the resolution, i would first like to remind us again what started this, or what triggered this whole process, and that was the murder of daphne caruana galizia, jan kuciak and his fiancée martina kusnirova, and i think we should always recall their names and make sure that they’re not forgotten. we are discussing today the oral question and the draft resolution that we will vote on later this year. it has been drafted together with all the main political groups by the rule of law monitoring committee, and it is the result of almost a year, 10 months, of hearings, on-site visits, meetings, correspondence, video conferences with governments, with the police, public prosecutors, journalists, ngos, experts, farmers and many, many more. i think that if we look at the text of the resolution as it is today, it focuses on malta and slovakia, but not exclusively. it is on the one hand highlighting concerns and criticisms and shortcomings, but i’m happy to say that it is also welcoming and noting some very positive developments, and i think the lesson that we can draw from this is that europe works. it is clear that the intervention of the european union helps the member states come back on track where they risked running off the tracks when it comes to the rule of law and fundamental rights. the resolution makes a couple of recommendations which are also summarised in the questions to the commission. we have some specific common recommendations on malta and slovakia. one is a recommendation to the european commission, inviting the european commission to start a rule-of-law dialogue with malta. we think that that would be justified. at the same time, i also intend to put forward amendments recognising the fact that the maltese government has now announced that they will implement the recommendations of the venice commission – but nevertheless, i think a dialogue would be appropriate. we would also recommend that the brain behind the murder of daphne caruana galizia is caught. not just the people who committed the murder, but also the brain behind it. and we also have a general call to end the scheme of golden visas and golden passports, not just in malta but in all member states. with regard to slovakia, we note that the probable brain behind the murder has not only been caught but also charged with, amongst other things, the murder of jan and martina and i’m happy to say that further inquiries into corruption and connections with organised crime are being conducted. nevertheless, some concerns remain concerning the so-called system of revolving doors. we see some of the people who stepped down actually coming back in other jobs. and we would also urge the slovak government to end the deadlock in the nominations to the constitutional court, and to refrain from adopting the new media law. and finally, there are some general recommendations to all of us. first of all, it has become clear to me in the course of the work of the rule of law monitoring group that we need to strengthen europol because now europol can now basically only do its job when it is invited by the member states. people will say, yes, that’s subsidiarity. but we also see that when public authorities themselves are engaging in wrongdoing, we should have the means, as the european union, to come in. why? because we are a system all together. if one of the member states undermines the rule of law, if one of the member states doesn’t apply our common rules and standards, then basically the whole european system is broken. so i think we have every reason to strengthen that system and strengthen europol. i would also call on the commission to reinstate its annual corruption report, because we don’t feel that the current formula in the european semester is strong enough. and finally, we would urge the commission, in particular mr timmermans who is not here today, to finally respond to the call, the repeated calls, of the european parliament for a comprehensive mechanism, the so-called drf pact – the democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights pact. and i see that neither spitzenkandidat, mr weber and mr timmermans, is really committed to a comprehensive, non-political objective mechanism, and the member states only want a peer review mechanism. (the president cut off the speaker)
deputising for the author, blue-card question. – look, i’ve heard your criticisms. i’ve heard them before. i think they’re unfounded and i wasn’t going to react. but i would really like you to clarify the last statement about how this resolution indicates that there is a rift between eastern and western europe. i have always maintained that there is no eastern europe or western europe or central europe or northern europe or southern europe... there is only one europe, and that is what i have been working for for the last 15 years, and i don’t accept your statement.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to vote in the european parliament. the sportsmen and motorcyclists, like you, in particular, are very fond of this system. but to speak to my colleague mr koch and mrs annie schreijer-pierik: if 20% of europeans are affected by this change in time, then we must take it seriously. there's a lot of good that can come from the survey. five million people responded, 497 million people didn't. that is something to consider, commissioner. as i have said, i support the report by the committee on transport. a number of business elements, including energy savings, have been discontinued. but there is a danger that the internal market will suffer. i very much regret that you have already rejected the coordination mechanism in advance. the coordination mechanism developed by the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs is indeed necessary to maintain the internal market and thus the transport sector. i hope you'll think it over carefully.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. only in my own country, the netherlands, has nothing been done about it, but in germany it has. of course, it's not about saving energy anymore, we all know that. that was brought up without investigation. it's about the human biorhythm. we have mothers with small children, we have elderly people, we have heart failure: there are so many examples. and as for the biorhythm: the nobel prize winner brought it up. and of course: it is a question of good coordination between the countries. but if we in europe cannot do that for each other here for the common people of europe: what are we worth? we must deal with this and i have confidence in the finnish presidency. let's put an end to this historical mistake. 500 million people a year who suffer from it, and twice a year. let's stop this. and i want to say this last thing: this has now been brought to light by research, that we need to stop. the first was brought up without any investigation. seven committees have said that we should get down to it, and the tran committee in particular. i say this to my dutch colleagues who are here today: the tran commission is about transport, but it's not just about transport, it's about people. (the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" question. what is it? i'll do it in dutch. mrs schreijer-pierik, you come from a region of the netherlands which borders germany. the netherlands and germany may opt for different standard times in the future. how will you explain to people in your border region or in other european border regions that they may need two watches in their daily lives? how do you prevent the single market from being fragmented? and how do you prevent the daily lives of these people, these entrepreneurs, these workers in these border regions from becoming even more disordered?
"blue card" is the answer. we dutch people can provide one time very quickly together with germany. we have three time zones in europe now and we can certainly get along with germany and belgium. but what you don't do: you don't listen to the people in the netherlands. you only listen to industry, and that's something i most certainly do not do. i have been doing this report for more than 12 years in this house and now for four years in the european parliament. i hope you'll cooperate with me in another place, and that this is over.
the european commission wants the member states to switch to permanent summer or winter time, but there is no argument for that. there has been a hearing in the transport committee and experts agree that: all that talk about health benefits for ending the current system, but there aren't any. and also the arguments about road safety that will improve: there are no such things. we're dealing with pure emotion here, when there are no facts on the table to prove that the new system will work. so the commission's proposal is a waste of time. instead of bringing harmony to the internal market, chaos and confusion are increasing. they're coming up with a new patchwork blanket that won't work. so i am in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal. juncker should be kept awake by this for once. parliament must show its teeth. (the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" question. what is it? it seems to be becoming a bit of a dutch discussion. in my country, the netherlands, many colleagues in the european parliament have not dealt with this in sufficient depth. i've been working on this for five years with a lot of other people. we have reports from cardiologists, from road safety, and so on, and so on, all of which are with our rapporteur on the desk. you can go and see. i think it is too premature to say that nothing is wrong at the very last moment and it does not do justice to the people who have worked so diligently on this. i'm asking you to take a look at this.
"blue card" is the answer. there was a wide-ranging hearing organised by this parliament. there have been many experts speaking and all of them have contradicted each other. there is simply no clear analysis with arguments to move to a commission system now. and what are we gonna do? then the emotion will rule, because there are so many citizens who want that. 1% of the european population wants this and no arguments!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. big scandals like dieselgate, but also the privacy violations by facebook, which violated that trust. they show the weakness in our european legislation when it comes to enforcing consumer rights and collective redress. with the legislation we are voting on tomorrow, we are creating a european basis for consumers to act together and recover damages. we are strengthening the position of the european consumer. this creates a better balance between consumer and producer. tomorrow we as the european parliament will take a step in the right direction. it is now the council's turn to take a swift stand and to negotiate with the new parliament after the elections so that consumers can now collectively claim their rights throughout europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, there are two points i would like to make tonight. the first is that parliament never really received a proper response from the commission to the committee of inquiry. yes, we did receive a response from commissioner bieńkowska, but that was only on the recommendations, not the conclusions. and on some elements she wrote that it was the prerogative of the president of the commission, so she couldn’t answer. that’s a bit weird if we consider the commission a college. so this goes beyond air quality. this is also a matter of democratic accountability, and i certainly demand from the commission before the end of this mandate a full and proper response to our inquiry conclusions and recommendations. the second point i would like to make is that we never cleaned up the mess of dieselgate. we did come up with new legislation but there are still millions of fraudulent diesel cars being driven around european cities, and what we need is a very strong coordinated european approach. at the moment it is left to the member states, and what we see happening is that individual member states take measures in such a way that they might get rid of those cars in their own country, but they will be exported to other european countries. so it remains a european problem, and the effects on millions of european citizens are not being taken seriously. the only institution that can play that role, that can come up with a very strong coordinated european approach, is the commission. so please, commissioner, take this seriously and organise a huge summit with all member states to get these cars off the road and force european car manufacturers to take back these cars and make them comply with european legislation through both software and hardware updates.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, i think i will indeed just join the dissatisfaction of the members here. we of course know that there have been improvements – we’ve been working on them – but there’s still a lot of issues that have not been solved. what my colleague gerben-jan gerbrandy said – that there are still cars running on the streets, heavily polluting, knowing that they are just dieselgate cars, and that the commission is not even taking action in getting member states together on that – is really concerning. what i would also like to add to that is a question. we know that there are a couple of infringement cases (by the way, commissioner bieńkowska always promised there will be more infringement cases – that was in the heat of the debate). was that just to calm parliament down? was that just not telling the truth? or are there still more infringement cases in the pipeline, and where are the others standing? and the last point. we have cases with the ombudsman. we want more transparency also on the technical working groups. also here, the commission is refusing to give the minutes of technical meetings. we really need them, all the more so because otherwise it just feels that the commission keeps on protecting member states and covering up their bad positions.
madam president, i have a point of order. the commission did not answer my question on why it did not respond to all the recommendations and conclusions of the inquiry committee. i’m not asking the commissioner to respond to that immediately, but maybe you can, as president, ask the commission to come back to that in writing as soon as possible, preferably still this week so that we can take action.
president. - regional development is the incestuous variant of development aid. it is a shifting of taxpayers' money within the european family without any result whatsoever. like development aid, it's not that tax money is going from the rich to the poor - the really rich are not paying any taxes at all. no, the money is going from the middle class to the super-rich in eastern europe and those super-rich know how to empty the subsidies pot quickly and skillfully with an army of advisors and lawyers. the taxpayer is the jackal again, and when will this end? (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card question. – i listened carefully to the contribution of colleague stuger, and he talked about the ‘incest variant’. i’m totally stuck now, because we never saw him attending the committee on regional development (regi) when we debated the many results of the seventh cohesion report, under which the biggest investments in this period reached the poorer parts. how can you say such a thing? you are lost. read your documents please. can you comment?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for the pointed question. i'll give you a sharp answer, too. at the moment when you in the committee on regional development are throwing taxpayers' money at eastern europe, i was in eastern europe, i was in romania, i was in bulgaria, to show the people in the netherlands where that money is going. for example, plastic castles: 90 million to plastic castles as a tourist attraction. there's no dog coming, there really is no dog. it's ridiculous. i know. and if you're sitting there spending dutch taxpayers' money, shame on you.
mr president, we are giving priority to the cities from 5% to 10%. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. eur 2.4 billion for strengthening the role of the villages, of these communities. the espon indicates that in the near future 8 million people will move from the villages, rural areas to the cities, and many young people with good education will not return. a pact for smart villages, which we called for in the resolution in october, should be established under the finnish or croatian presidency. commissioner, may i ask you to work actively on this and to get an answer? the erdf is taking over. my second comment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. that sounds nice, but in practice you see a dilution of both funds. it is about turning knowledge, horizon europe, into skills. with knowledge, to innovate, to produce, to export, to butter sandwiches. that is the line that must be followed throughout europe, including eastern europe, and that is the starting point for the new economy in 2021-2027 that we are now asking for. this is my last speech as a dutchman here and i would like to have it recorded because those opportunities on both sides of europe - that is cohesion! - must remain.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i have again tabled a motion on the plight of the staff employed by manpower solutions in this parliament for the house of european history and the parlamentarium. whistleblowers have shared with me information about medieval conditions. no decent work clothes, intimidation, too short lunch breaks, no talking to each other, mandatory when there are visitors. it just goes on and on. and all for a small wage: the absolute minimum wage still allowed in belgium. i have asked the secretary-general of this parliament for clarification. a new tender has been launched, but i have been unable to find anything about it and have received nothing. why not? - why not? and who's the new payroll company or has the contract with manpower solutions been renewed? and what are the conditions for the staff? they report nothing has improved. parliament cannot afford slave labour and that is that. this requires action by the bureau and the secretary-general. i agree with what mr staes has said on the general allowance for expenditure. there is still no exhaustive list of cases for which it can be used, no obligation to have the external auditor assess the legality of expenditure at the end of the mandate, no obligation to be transparent about expenditure. we have again put forward proposals on this. i hope that parliament will adopt them and that the bureau will resolve these issues before the end of the mandate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i too would like to thank the rapporteur miriam dalli for her great work in getting this deal. it was a huge fight within the parliament, as you still sometimes hear – some old voices are still a bit unhappy, but it was also a big fight in the council, where there were huge splits between progressive countries and countries that didn’t want to do any policy. unfortunately, germany itself was even split. the environment ministry wanted to have higher ambitions, but the industry and transport ministry did not. so it was a very difficult file. it’s great that we are finally getting these policies ahead. i just want to mention to the commission that yes, you put the proposal forward, but it doesn’t happen that often that both the council and parliament made it more ambitious. i hope that this is a lesson for the commission when putting forward proposals. in the old days, the commission tried to be in the middle; now, a bit too often on climate proposals, both sides improve it. so there is room for improvement also for the commission for future proposals. just on the targets that are now on the table, these are very desperately needed in order to get innovation in the automotive sector within europe and what you can see already is the impact of these regulations. even the german car industry is now talking about wanting to fully electrify their transport. so you see that the automotive sector in germany is even now going ahead and this shows that regulation matters and putting ambition in place matters and that’s what we have done.
i think it would be nice if we agreed to meet again in three or four years' time and look back with a smile on the rearguard action we have taken in these days. because the sad thing is that social transitions are happening so terribly fast that we as legislators are simply too slow. we're riding together in that little diesel, ducking down the right lane with the conservatives behind the wheel, while we're being squeezed hard into the left lane by the car of the future. bmw announced yesterday that it's launching a whole new range of electric cars with a range of 600 kilometers. volkswagen announced in november that it will invest 44 billion euros in e-mobility over the next five years. that's what's happening now. the market is passing us on all fronts. i am going to vote for the compromise, but i know now that in two years it will be obsolete and fortunately: the market is moving much faster than we as legislators can.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, making the foreign policy budget more accountable and more efficient is necessary, so when the commission proposed a quite radical reform, i was open—minded. but what i’ve been hammering for, from that day on, is that the only way we could actually assess whether the proposed new so-called architecture that merges various funding lines into one would be more fit for purpose is if we knew how the money would be governed. that is still very weak spot in the commission proposal. we put some proposals on the table – a steering group between the external action service and the commission, and it’s not a secret that that cooperation can be improved – but we also looked at how to ensure more conditionality to the billions of euros suggested under a so-called flexible amount. this parliament needs to be able to apply scrutiny. with only 1.6 % of the budget reserved for human rights, my second warning is to avoid a total instrumentalising of the eu’s foreign affairs budget for ‘migration management’ and ‘countering terrorism’. we are a values and rules-based union, and that should be reflected in the foreign affairs budget too.
mr president, this is an unfortunate construction. foreign policy and development policy are not always the same. in fact, foreign policy is often short-term and designed for our own well-being, whereas development policy is aimed at fighting poverty. that is what the european treaty says: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. merging those two risks not doing that. when i hear the european commissioner say that he thinks 95% odable is too high and that he would like to set aside a lot of money for flexible use, i am very worried because development cooperation does not benefit from short-term flexible use. development cooperation must be long-term and predictable. the greens are not happy about this merger and the greens do not really understand what plan b is if they cannot get the european development fund to agree to it. because then you don't have that money. short-term policies are also not good for tackling climate change. we are pleased that the co-rapporteurs have accepted a proposal to spend 45% of the money on climate action. we have tried to be very constructive in our proposals. we are also glad that many proposals have been adopted, but let us be clear: it's about the outcome. the greens have worked hard, but there are no guarantees that the negotiations with the council and the european commission will really help to achieve that lasting poverty reduction.
president. - mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a result, there is a high sensitivity to any indication of foreign interference in the domestic situation. this is a factor which should be taken into account in this debate, and the commissioner has said so. european caution is particularly needed in view of the very complex political and social situation in which algeria now finds itself after weeks of mass demonstrations. while a recurring slogan of the protesters is "you can't make anything new out of the old", it remains an exciting question whether the presidential elite, the repressed elites that we must not forget, and the army itself have been penetrated and affected. it is of great importance for the eu to follow developments in algeria closely. the so-called arab spring of 2011 has taught us that continuation of the unrest pushes forward groups that pursue a religious agenda that is at odds with the expectations of the protesters. as a protestant, i join the algerian protestants in praying for a peaceful process of reform, and at the same time i express the hope that they, as a tiny minority, will be able to enjoy full religious freedom in public life, because that is a point that absolutely must be put forward by the european union. freedom of religion for all algerians, and beware of fundamentalism and a religious agenda in that sense.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this was one of the first topics i got involved with as an mep and it’s now one of the topics i close with: the arab uprisings, or rather the courageous uprisings of people against repression, corruption and the lack of opportunity and freedom to shape their own lives. the promise of these values is precious and people calling for them should find solid european support. us not impacting neighbours does not mean they won’t impact us. i will always stay with a sense of missed opportunity. if the eu had invested more forcefully in the freedoms and rights of the largely young and desperate populations in the middle east and north africa, what could have happened? because whatever you give attention – and, frankly speaking, money – to, grows. that is why we pushed for a marshall plan for the middle east to invest in democracy, education and human rights, particularly those of women and minorities. because after years of being plundered by corrupt and authoritarian leaders, institution building and transition are hard but they are very much worth investing in. at some point the eu actually took an opposite turn. the war in syria and the people it sent adrift towards europe made for cynical trade-offs in the form of so-called ‘migration management’ – a euphemism for outsourcing the sheltering of people fleeing the worst violence we have seen in a long time, and outsourcing that responsibility to others in exchange for money, to the same kinds of dictators that caused people to flee in the meantime. looking at algeria today, it looks like we’ve come full circle. egypt is still a time bomb and so is turkey. libya is a failed state and, as i said, the war in syria rages on. unfortunately, and i think this is very damaging, europe is not a key player to solve that war. so there are painful but important lessons that the arab uprisings can teach us about our role in the world. we should continue to improve our policies and not step away from our responsibilities because our fates are intertwined with those of the people in the middle east.
in writing. 12 april, the day on which the united kingdom may leave our union, is drawing ever closer. the british government must now clarify as soon as possible and come up with a concrete plan as to whether and how they want to leave the union. however much the british may want to leave the union, the rights that people have now must be guaranteed in that situation. it is not possible for european data to just be lying in the street when the uk is no longer covered by european privacy laws. i think it is important that the standards we have built up in the eu are safeguarded after brexit. income, labour rights and social security in the united kingdom should be protected in the final agreement. we do not want an island off the coast that is a threat to the social standards we have built together. together, the uk and the eu member states share a rich history. time and again, it has been shown that cooperation is the way to go. whether it's for peace or for prosperity. this cooperation must continue after brexit, because only in this way can a military split be avoided.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mobility package i is fully integrated into the mobility package. we have all seen in the past weeks and days that this is a politically sensitive subject which touches on the very heart of the european union's internal market. my report on driving and rest periods is about improving the working conditions of drivers. it is not so much the daily working and resting hours that are involved, that is dealt with in another file. we're not getting to that. it is particularly concerned with rest periods at night and on weekends. the main question is where a driver spends his weekend rest. we have seen that there is now illegal parking along many european roads. there's no sanitation facilities there. there's no kitchen in there. that is what we are trying to solve with this dossier and the european commission's proposal. we are being guided and hampered in this respect by the european court of justice in luxembourg. this has meant that the normal weekly rest period can no longer be spent in the cabin. we have tried to find a solution by prohibiting it, but with a reasonable transitional period. another element in this file is when the driver goes home. we don't want any nomadic drivers who are away from home for more than four weeks. they must be sent home on time and their employer must guarantee that they will be home within a maximum of four weeks. remains of the short weekly rest: which can be spent in the secure and well-equipped car parks. a special part of this file is the bus drivers. you know, madam president, that passengers are not containers. we need a little more flexibility for bus drivers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president. - the next item is the report (doc. mrs kyllönen has already spoken about this and it is absolutely essential that the so-called second generation smart tachograph should be introduced on 1 january 2024. the problem of the mailbox companies is also a problem which we must tackle and combat at all costs. mr president, i should like to conclude by saying something about cabotage and secondment. we must be careful that we do not use too strict legislation to undermine or hinder the flexibility of the internal market. we have a major shortage of drivers at the moment in europe, over 50 000 people, and it is important that this shortage of drivers be solved with flexibility and good working conditions.
i think it is crucial in this debate, mr president, that we ensure that our drivers can work under the best possible conditions. i think that means, among other things, that we must ensure that there are adequate, good, safe parking facilities, but also that we must do everything possible to avoid a battle of who deserves the least - a race to the bottom - to avoid that battle. because honest work requires equal pay for equal work. the way we can ensure fairness for drivers is primarily through good enforcement. unfortunately, enforcement is still a long way off in practice, but also in legislation. i think there's still too few inspectors. we don't have enough good databases yet. we need more cross-border checks and we certainly need non-discriminatory enforcement. last but not least, we need to deal with the multiple-employer and their shady bosses.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the transport sector. i think it's safe to say that no one outside this room understands what we're doing here. that is what is eating away at the confidence in the decision-making process in brussels. but the drivers don't let anyone fool them. so whether we vote today or in april on their work schedules, their wages and their terms of employment, drivers deserve a fair wage and they deserve adequate rest. that was my commitment, that is my commitment and that will remain my commitment, because truck drivers and bus drivers are now pitted against each other in a race for the lowest wages and the worst working conditions. we must stop the exploitation of motorists along the highway in my country. we must close the letterbox companies and we must give the drivers the assurance of decent driving and rest times.
rapporteur. – madam president, i will be very short, but i know many people say this. first of all, i think we have had a good debate, and this debate has shown that the european parliament is divided on the mobility package i, and now we have to take care that we are not taking the wrong decisions at the wrong moment. and when my colleagues ertug, pavel telička and even the european commission say that we have compromises, that is not the facts. (applause)we have only compromises on the cabotage, the file of ismail ertug. why are we now in a difficult situation in this plenary? because the committee on transport and tourism – and that’s also my fault – was not successful in compromises. if we go on like this, it’s a very bad thing for the european union and the european parliament. (sustained applause)
mr president, plastic is used absurdly often in our daily lives because it is cheap. so plastic is used in the right way and in the wrong way, and the plastic waste mountain grows. our beaches, our seas, our fish and marine life are not benefiting from all this waste. by banning and restricting the ten single-use plastic products that contribute to the plastic soup, we are taking a first step today to make our seas and beaches cleaner. it also reduces the use of plastic and thus also its production. plastic is made from oil, among other things, so today we're going to strike a double blow: we're going to get rid of cotton swabs and all those other products and we're going to reduce our dependence on oil countries like salafist saudi arabia. very good, i wholeheartedly support that.
it is very good that we are all joining together to celebrate the ban on single-use plastics in europe. and rightly so, because i sincerely believe that this is a very good result. but we also need to be self-critical, because this measure was already announced in 2010 in the roadmap for resource efficiency in europe. so apparently it took eight years for this bill to find the exit from the berlaymont building. it shows once again that the sense of urgency is still far too low. the sense of urgency that business as usual simply can't anymore. the sense of urgency that agricultural policy, cohesion policy, transport policy, economic policy, and so on, and so on, really needs to be radically changed. but let us use the unity we are radiating today to accelerate, together with much more urgency, that transition to a truly clean economy. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card answer. – this is the difference between a conservative and a liberal. i believe in a progressive future. this is a story of the past. we’ve always heard that new technology was going to cost us jobs and whatever, but in reality it only brought us a brighter future. the same will happen with a cleaner economy. it will bring us new jobs, additional jobs, and, as a bonus, you will get a clean planet. what else would you like to wish for?
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms ries, for the great work on reducing single—use plastic, which is indeed a great step forward. as my colleague, margrete auken, already said, she has been fighting with the commission for a while on plastic action, and it is great that we are taking this action now. but it is important also to look ahead because we are not there yet. commissioner frans timmermans said that we are on a path for a sustainable future. that might be a bit too much for this step. because, yes, it is absolutely great to really reduce single—use plastic, but we all know that the big amounts of plastic are in the packaging. for example, the commission floated the idea too two years ago –last year even – about a tax on plastics, but we haven’t heard any more about that. if i read the plastics strategy, there are still some things that need to happen. so i think what would be very important now is, not only to celebrate this moment, but also to hear from the commission which next steps we can expect to reduce our plastic addiction.
president, as with the climate, it is our young people who are calling us to order in the plastic soup and putting this on the map. just think of the young heroes like boyan slat, the creator of the ocean cleanup, and ten-year-old lilly with her plastic pickup mission. worldwide, the youth are taking the lead in protecting our planet, and their initiatives fill me with pride, but also with deep shame. they clean up our waste, waste that destroys our oceans and our biodiversity. the new rules on single-use plastics are a good start, but they are far from enough. the most common waste found in clean-up operations worldwide is from coca-cola, pepsico, nestlé, marlboro, mcdonald's, red bull, unilever, mars and procter & gamble. when are we gonna get to them? we cannot leave the health of the environment and of people and animals to the profit-making interests of these multinationals.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, commissioner, as a co-negotiator i have worked hard on this new legislation. this will finally allow farmers and gardeners to use more organic fertilisers, such as animal manure and compost, instead of manure. until now, farmers have been allowed to use only a limited amount of their own valuable manure to meet the fertiliser needs of crops. what they had left, they had to dispose of for a fee, but at the same time they were allowed to supply fertilizer. that's the world upside down, and i think it's also bad for the environment. the fertiliser industry is the largest emitter of co2 in the european union. it is the largest user of natural gas in the netherlands. i also believe that organic fertilisers are important for healthy soil life, and healthy soil life is the basis for a profitable agricultural operation. it is important for good water management, for healthy crops, for biodiversity and above all it also prevents the leakage of nutrients to ground and surface water. in other words, a win-win situation. the farmers have known this for a long time. i am glad that this is possible and that the european parliament has used its common sense.
president, commissioner, much has been achieved, but there is also a missed opportunity in the field of recycling agriculture. i've been working for 30 years to get processed animal manure and mineral concentrate approved as a green fertilizer substitute. the text of the law as it has been negotiated contains nothing, despite parliament's clear demands. we must be content with an oral statement from the european commission. is there, according to commissioner timmermans, a firm guarantee that there will be a delegated act for the recognition of mineral concentrate as a replacement for green fertilisers? i demand an answer to that. the new euro commissioners are not bound by an oral statement from the european commission. i therefore appeal to minister schouten in the netherlands, and to flanders and germany in the council: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the delegated acts to exclude green fertiliser substitutes from the nitrates directive. and i'm going to be keeping my fingers crossed for the next few years, and i hope to be able to work with others on this.
president. - for reasons that are not entirely clear, the european commission wishes to lift the visa requirement for the european union for as many countries as possible. now also for kosovo. kosovo is a territory whose inhabitants have declared independence, but which has not been recognised by all the member states of the union. there are also problems with criminal gangs from kosovo in the eu. i would like to stop them at the border, but apparently the european commission does not. the eu mission to build a rule of law in kosovo has failed, say the dutch participants in that mission. the border is full of smuggling routes where heroin and weapons and prostitutes are transported daily, with the final destination being western europe. local police and customs know about it, but they turn a blind eye, and even colombian drug cartels use the routes. the dutch team in kosovo described last year as follows, and i quote: "a lifeboat can be 99 percent intact, but if it has one leak, it sinks. we are looking right into the leak of europe". end of quote. president. - that is why i am voting against the request for an early vote. how a majority of the european parliament can be in favour of this is a mystery to me. we shall vote against.
president. - mr president, today we are discussing the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2020. in total, parliament has budgeted over two billion euros, almost 4% more, or many tens of millions of euros more. the enormous sum is needed, among other things, to further indoctrinate the european citizens with talk about so-called european political consciousness and european values, in short, talk. to this end, various 'europa experience' centres and mobile installations will be set up in the member states: the european parliament has been a major influence in the debate on the future of the european union. of course, the greatest threat to european values is not mentioned. the fact is, mr president, that the arrival of millions of fortune-seekers from islamic countries has disastrous consequences. intolerant islam is incompatible with our liberal western values. the fight against islamization should be high on the agenda in every european country. i'll get back to the budget plans. once again, we are talking about a missed opportunity to cut parliament's expenditure substantially. why are the salaries of meps not reduced by 15%? and why is the general expense allowance not abolished and replaced by a more realistic, less fraud-prone system? and what will happen to the huge pension scheme for former meps, which will cost a handful of extra money? parliament is taking good care of itself, so much so that additional staff must be employed. employees who are sent to new far corners in africa and asia. the madness at the top. mr president, the election is coming up. it is time for the citizens of europe to punish the eu elite, who are alien to the world. it's time for a change. it's time for the big cleanup.
rapporteur. president, with this legislation we are taking an important step towards making europe safer, getting available information on criminals and terrorists to the right place faster and more fully, controlling our borders better and more efficiently and ensuring that criminals or people with malice in their hearts can no longer use false identities and get away with it. here in strasbourg, just a few kilometres from this assembly hall, in the bunker of the eu-lisa building, are the servers running our european information systems in the field of security and border management. those servers are only a few inches apart in that bunker, and yet they can't and shouldn't communicate with each other to this day. the lack of communication between these european information systems creates blind spots in our security structure, and with this proposal we are finally putting an end to these blind spots. the european search portal enables police, border guards and customs officials to retrieve the correct information they need to do their job from all information systems at the touch of a button. we can use the biometric matching service to search with our fingerprints, with facial scans. and that's what makes it so much easier to do our work with one system instead of all those different systems. it's cheaper, it's safer, it's clearer and it's better: we are not reinventing the wheel every time, but rather using our energy more efficiently and effectively. through the common identity register, we are creating a central repository for biographical and biometric data of people who are not from europe. existing data is stored smarter, and with that, we can do things much easier. we can more easily control the quality of our data. we can streamline the access of law enforcement agencies to this information, and we can more easily monitor and identify people on the street without papers. and finally, the last part: the multiple identity detector. we've seen a lot in recent years of criminals with up to 20 different identities registered in our data systems. we saw it with anis amri: the terrorist who was registered under 14 different identities. with these components, we can prevent that in the future. this parliament has said from the beginning that we can only agree to a proposal like this if the fundamental rights of citizens are also well guaranteed. good security policy must go hand in hand with safeguarding the fundamental rights of our citizens and we have done so. we're not going to collect more data, but we're going to use the data we already have much better. we're keeping the strict access requirements of the underlying systems intact. we have a new web application that helps citizens to protect their rights. this new regulation is also a new way of working which will bring us benefits in the years to come. and i would like to thank commissioners avramopoulos and king for their efforts in this case. i want to thank my co-correspondent nuno melo. i would like to thank all the colleagues, but especially the staff, the advisers, who have all helped us in the past to bring this to a successful conclusion. with interoperability - and i am convinced of this - we are really making europe safer, and we are doing that through the people who are watching over our security, the policeman on the street, the border guards at the airport, the customs officers at the border crossing - to give those people the right tools to do their jobs.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you and let me also thank the commission, because from the beginning of this process, we’ve had many, many, many hours of discussions, within parliament and with the commission, on how exactly this works, what can we do, how can we improve it. i think all the work that we’ve put into this has led to a very good result. i’d also like to thank all the colleagues here who have expressed their support for this. i think most of us support this, most of us have also spoken about the balance between security and fundamental rights. mr niedermüller said that they are not competing with each other, but they’re complementary to each other, and i think this is a prime principle that we managed to get into this legislation. i think it is good news. it is good news if you care about fighting identity fraud. it is good news if you care about making our security policy in the european union more effective. it is good news if you care about giving our police officers, our border guards, our custom guards, the right instruments to do their jobs and also very helpful with the elections coming up as mr avramopoulos also referred to. if you don’t care about any of these things. if you don’t care about fighting identity fraud and if you don’t care about security, you still have the possibility to vote either for the greens or the extreme left.
rapporteur. – mr president, my thanks to the commission and to my colleagues for having worked on this file, for a while now, and for finally also having this moment of truth here in the plenary to get to a vote later on today. in principle, this file really is about putting the money where your mouth is. that’s basically what we’re doing with this file. i just want to remind all my colleagues who were always celebrating the paris agreement about how important it is that we – as europe – are leading by example. it is also very important where we put our money. where are the investments going? how do we ensure that our investments become paris-proof? we are talking about shifting trillions of euros of investments here, and if we do that in the right way, we can help the financial sector and our industry to move to a green economy, which is the future. this is also being debated. we are debating at the council level our zero—emission economy, a climate-neutral economy. if we want to get there, we need the right incentives; we need the right investments. we also need the right definitions, and that is exactly what is at stake here today. first of all, the taxonomy will describe and determine what a green investment is. parliament is making some good proposals on really defining what a green investment is in order to prevent greenwashing. that is very important, because there are many green products on the market, but quite often we do not know exactly what their environmental impact is, what their green impact is. by adopting this taxonomy, we will put transparent standards on what green financing means, and that is very important to have. of course, there are still some amendments on the table to make very clear what, in our mind, should not be considered a green investment. i will also ask my colleagues, are you really going to accept that later on an investment in coal can still be called green? while we are discussing the phasing out of coal in every country, any investment in coal cannot be seen as a green investment. this is just simple logic, and i hope that parliament will follow that logic. we also have some other discussions to follow, because green investment is still a niche; it’s still a small part of the investments. the big part of the investments are not claiming to be green, but are still being done. therefore, we deliberately opened up the discussion on defining when an activity is non—green. there has been a lot of lobbying out there really talking a lot of nonsense, as if we were forbidding activities; as if we were not giving a chance for industry to green. what we are doing is to show for every investment what the environmental impact is. if you have a downgrading of your impact, of course that should be highlighted, just like you highlight when you have a very positive green impact. it is not forbidding; it is not blacklisting; it is just providing transparency to the market. hopefully, that will have an impact on the market, so that our finances will go from brown investments to more green investments. that is exactly what we need if we want to be paris-proof. the last point that is on the table: if we talk about sustainable finance, it should not only be green, it should also be social. we are putting some proposals for minimum safeguards, but we know that it is very difficult for many people to accept. when we are talking about sustainable finance, you cannot avoid discussing what the social implications of sustainable finance are, and that too is on the table today. i am looking forward to a good discussion and, more importantly, a very good vote later today.
president. - we are discussing today a report on sustainable investment and one of the objectives of that action plan is, and i quote, 'reorienting capital flows towards sustainable investment to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth', end of quote. it is a very big mouth to say that the rapporteurs see a shortage of capital for sustainable investment. this is strange because the european central bank has been embracing monetary easing for years and interest rates on investment are currently at record lows. everything has been done to increase the incentive to borrow for investment. so why don't these investments come about? if we look at the objectives of this policy, of this plan, it is not strange. i 'll name three . the commission has also proposed to the council that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency. that's not an investment program. that is the programme of the left. where's the return on investment? there's no such thing. so that becomes taxation and that becomes subsidies. shortages are driving the market. a production process that uses less raw materials and less energy to win. unless the government gets involved in this mess, it's a pity the reporters don't believe that. monetary policy has already led to a lot of breakdowns, this makes it worse. this show is making us all worse.
the financial sector, mr president, is of course the key to the transition to a sustainable economy. because every investment, no matter how big or small, affects the speed of that transition in both a positive and a negative way. that's why this taxonomy is so important, because it determines when financial products can truly be called sustainable. but we have to move on, of course. those ambitions really need to go up. we cannot be satisfied if 5, 10 or 15% of the investment is sustainable. because if that's the case, we still have 95, 90, 85 percent of the investments that are not sustainable. that's like moping with the faucet open in my eyes. i therefore believe that the european commission should also work on the brown taxonomy in addition to the green taxonomy. the commission, the council and certainly the conservative part of this parliament must realise that we can only reach paris, that we can only achieve the goals of a circular economy and all those other sustainable objectives that we set ourselves if we can make the financial sector sustainable. that is the aim and that is why i expect the european commission to be much more ambitious in this area in the future.
mr president, this should be an important file, if the criteria set out in an initiative report on sustainable finance by this parliament are met. firstly, it needs to be broad in scope. it should apply to all financial products, not just to a small niche of green products. we need mainstreaming. if europe cannot bring the financial sector in line with the paris agreement, who can? second, we need a broad view. sustainability is not about being green: it should also include tax compliance, human rights, and – speaking as a social democrat – a social dimension, so that the financial sector serves us and not the other way around. a law that lays down green standards for green products is, in a sense, not effective and is no progress. amendment 87 on the scope, and amendment 91 on the social dimension, are therefore key.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for this good debate. maybe the only point to make is that some colleagues said ‘well, it’s good what you’re doing, but don’t go too fast’. this is a very peculiar reasoning, because we signed the paris agreement and we need to be climate-neutral before 2050. we need investments in achieving that, and those investments are being made today. if we do not get our taxonomy right, we do not give the right signals to the market to shift the trillions from non-sustainable investments to sustainable investments. that needs to be done today. that is what we are talking about, and that is what is so crucial about the votes we are going to have. this is not about rocking a boat; this is about our future economy. do we want the green jobs in our economy or not? other regions are moving; we should do the same. as the commissioner said, the taxonomy that we are putting in place here today will be a global standard. the rest of the world is watching us, so we need to get this right and we need to get this right today. that is why i plead once more with my conservative colleagues to really look at a couple of these amendments, where we are making it very clear that when you look at investments, you should not only look at the green niche of the investment. you should look at the broader spectrum of the investments, and they all should go towards greening of our economy. as soon as an investment delivers on its sustainability performance, it will get a positive signal, and that is what this is about. this is not about forbidding activities; this is about steering the activities towards a green economy so that we can achieve the zero-emission, climate-neutral economy, which will provide the additional amount of jobs that the commission showed in its analysis. that is what is at stake today. that is worth rocking a boat, ladies and gentlemen!
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister of sweden. i think many of the things you said took me also back to what you said as a reaction to the outcome of the british referendum on brexit. you said in particular that we need a europe that works and delivers and focuses on the issues where people expect us to deliver results. that includes, among other things, joint responsibility for refugees and, not least, to create jobs and do it with decent wages and conditions. on behalf of my group, i couldn’t agree more with you. at the same time, if you look back over these past three years, europe hasn’t been very successful in these respects. guy verhofstadt already referred to the negotiations on the reform of the dublin system for the responsibility of asylum applications, and it’s not parliament that’s blocking them – it’s in the council that we see that no progress is being made. my question to you, mr prime minister, is: what does sweden do to unblock the situation? if i look at the national legislation in sweden, i see that you have actually a swedish act temporarily restricting the possibility to obtain residence permits in sweden. is that a helpful way forward to a joint responsibility system for asylum? parliament is waiting: waiting for you, waiting for the council. as far as creating jobs with decent wages and conditions is concerned, i read in your statement of government policy of 21 january that the swedish labour market must be characterised by security and flexibility. well, we all know how the concept of flexicurity worked out in the eu. i dare say that the rise of the extreme right-wing populism in many eu member states – unfortunately also in sweden – can at least be party attributed to this concept. people who are uncertain about their jobs or have to combine various precarious jobs to make a living are easy prey for populism. unfortunately, the eu doesn’t help very much in this respect. let’s have a look at the internal market together. for years we have been asking, together with european trade unions, for a social progress protocol. whenever there is a conflict between the rules of the internal market and social rights, the latter should prevail. and you could ask then: what are the social rights? you yourself mentioned the european social pillar; but in practice the council made this into purely political commitments. fortunately, we also have legally-binding instruments like the european social charter, the ilo conventions, and it shouldn’t be too difficult to develop a framework to really put all eu legislation to the test. is it advancing social rights? is it really contributing to people feeling secure and protected? such a social progress protocol is more urgent than ever before – also because, and you mentioned this, mr prime minister, workers from various member states are made to compete with each other. look at the tedious discussions we are having and the votes we are probably having tomorrow on the so-called mobility package. mr prime minister, what is your detailed vision about creating jobs and doing it with decent wages and conditions at european level? do you agree that a social progress protocol is indispensable, and what initiatives can we expect? a few words on the militarisation of the european project. sweden has indeed a longstanding tradition when it comes to the protection and promotion of human rights globally, and i would say sweden’s international diplomacy in this area used to be famous. these days, however, the swedish prime minister is strongly encouraging the arms build-up in the eu. does that mean that, instead of relying on multilateralism, instead of relying on your diplomats, also sweden is now relying more on force and violence? shouldn’t the question be how we can avoid an endless arms race instead of participating in this project? finally, i think business and human rights is another area that sweden could be very active on. i shall be short, because i am running out of time, but the un is working on a binding instrument, and can we expect some initiatives also from sweden, given its tradition, to unblock the situation? because the eu hasn’t done anything yet in that respect.
the european union and its member states must now say goodbye to naivety towards china, a strategic partner [...] which has in fact proved to be a problematic partner for many years. how problematic the beginning of this week proved once again. then the frankfurter allgemeine am sonntag published a piece under the telling title "tatort china". german managers are sounding the alarm about the increasingly sophisticated corporate espionage. berlin estimates the damage at 100 billion euros a year. and then we'll only be talking about germany. the eu and its member states should closely and in depth monitor beijing's external policy from within to better represent its interests in trade relations with china. and then a vulnerable [...] emerges, where experts even predict long crisis years. that also sounds like a discussion about the future of the private sector in china. and we have to be aware of that and join in this domestic discourse. only on the basis of a sound knowledge of china's motives can a properly sound european response to beijing's state-mutilation of [...] be formulated.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. every year, more than 25 000 people die on european roads as a result of road accidents, and unfortunately the decline in road deaths is stagnating. we can reverse this trend by making cars and roads safer. and with this directive, we do the last thing. firstly, we will ensure that we impose stricter safety requirements on more european roads. the directive will now cover not only roads on the transeuropean transport network - we have just heard this - but also other roads where accidents are frequent. and that is sorely needed! most road accidents occur on roads which are not part of the ten-t network, such as provincial, regional roads. if i look at my own country, only 6% of dutch roads are provincial. however, about 20% of road deaths are unfortunately caused by road accidents. the second point. we're also going to assess european roads for safety risks. we're focusing policy more on roads where most accidents happen and proactively mapping risks. this is also a way of ensuring that vulnerable road users are better protected. thirdly, we are improving the quality of road infrastructure in terms of road markings and road signs. this is how we promote the recognition and visibility of these for all road users. this quality drive is also needed in view of the emergence of self-driving vehicles and vehicles with driver assistance systems such as intelligent speed assistance. in conclusion: the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction. we are improving the quality and safety of road infrastructure. we are preparing for the future with self-driving vehicles and we are preventing as many road accidents as possible with the goal of zero road deaths. for every road casualty in europe, there is one too many.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very pleased that today we will be able to vote finally on the pepp as it is called, the pan-european personal pension product, because i think that we have delivered what we promised, a truly pan-european product that would be simple and safe and good for consumers and i think that that is what we have on the table. first of all, to start with the pan-european nature. it is a regulation that lays down pan-european quality criteria, pan-european rights for consumers but also true pan-european oversight and the possibility for eiopa to intervene, and i think that is something that was very important. initially we wanted authorisation by eiopa but i think that now, with the smart use of the existing powers of eiopa, we have achieved the same goal. we have also laid down extensive rights for consumers, protection for consumers, the right to information, compulsory advice, the right to switching, the right to, let’s say, portability rights; we have achieved a fee cap of 1%, which is no small achievement because there was massive resistance against it, and if you see the fees that are actually being charged today, a 1% fee cap is really very good. we have achieved a basic pepp which is basically a kind of off—the—shelf product for anyone who is not financially literate and who is not rich, that we have set up with all the necessary safeguards. nevertheless, we have all seen in recent days that there are still a lot of people who are concerned, and i would like to eliminate a couple of misunderstandings. first of all, pepp is clearly a third pillar product. it is complementary, individual and voluntary. it in no way replaces the first or second pillar products, and i think it is important to realise that. i’ve received a lot of emails, as have most of the colleagues i suppose, in particular from spain, accusing us of being a threat to the public pension systems. but that is really complete nonsense and i would like to state here that the only real threat to public pension systems are the national authorities, which are completely unable and unwilling to reform their systems, and if today pepp is going to fill a gap in member states where the pension provisions are inadequate, that is purely to blame on those national governments and not on pepp. it will actually offer the opportunity to people who today do not have a proper pension provision to actually have something for the future. i would like to say that for me, creating a pepp which is good for consumers was the prime concern, and i know that one of the objectives of the commission was also to complete the capital markets union and if we have contributed to that with pepp then i’m very happy, but for me creating something which is good for european citizens was actually the prime objective. i think that what we are going to vote on today will achieve that objective and further contribute to a social europe that actually cares for people, and i hope that it’s going to command a very solid majority.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for all her great work on this product. probably the most important thing to stress is that there are private pension products on the european markets and they are unregulated. so, what we’re doing here is finally regulating private pension products. i think the best thing that we are doing here is to create a basic pan—european private pension product that has rules to protect consumers, rather than give money away to all kinds of hedge funds. and, of course, you can criticise these rules, but what i think is very important is that we have a cap on the total fee. we really need to make sure – and this is also a question to the commission – that this cap is really at 1% of the overall costs. that is a very important statement to make. one final point: we all know that this does not replace basic pensions but i do think that the commission needs to become very clear that they are not, in their austerity programme of the future, pushing further cuts of the first pillar. the first pillar can then remain and we can have a third additional, rather than replacement, pillar.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the pepp requires a major change in the law in the netherlands and the subsequent dutch opposition of the minister in the council was in vain. as usual, majority voting is the rule in european legislation and decision-making. so the netherlands was alone. but article 114 (2) of the treaty states that the commission may not interfere in taxation provisions and in the rights and interests of workers. i therefore put questions to the european commission two months ago, questions to which the commission has still not been able to find an answer. why does the commission feel it has the right to interfere in this and why do these majority decisions always come at the expense of our workers? the dutch capital-backed occupational pensions are unique! my concerns and those of the dutch parliament are shared by the dutch pension federation. the introduction of the pepp threatens to undermine the dutch pension system. this is the third time that the union has ignored the wish of the netherlands to keep its own pension system out of the eu's grasp. why not encourage a supplementary pension without compromising the sovereignty of the member states? if, as the rapporteur says, financially sustainable national pension systems are so vital to the stability of the union, that is precisely the argument for keeping the union away from the pension systems of the member states! the third pillar pensions must be tailored to the situation in each member state, precisely because there are great differences between member states. and that was not taken into account. the eu's interference will only lead to administrative burdens, loss of sovereignty and the erosion of the position of the dutch worker. the pvv will therefore vote against this proposal.
i was elected by the dutch people, mr president, and that was to give a boost to the single market and also to bring a little more of the rotterdam mentality to brussels. and to protect together all the beauty that we have built in europe. and one of the dutch achievements that we have and that i will always stand up for is our pension system, that huge pot of over 1 300 billion euros saved by millions of dutch people for their well-earned old age. more than half of europe's pension assets are saved by those very dutch people, who work hard and look to the future. i am against a new european pension product because i believe that it will lead to more european interference in our pensions. because for me , it 's really like that: the only people who have a say in our pension money are us, the dutch themselves!
the capital markets union has started in this mandate. the commission has put forward 13 proposals, of which 10 have been rejected. the only question is whether the proposals that are adopted, such as the pepp, really contribute to the capital markets union. i'm sure next term will be better. i understand that parliament has worked hard to improve the proposal, but it raises the question: what is pan-european about the product if the supervision remains national? the whole capital markets union is at stake. and how much will a voluntary product contribute to the pension fund in countries that do not have it? why should we be interested in a retirement product at a time when interest rates are low and saving doesn't really pay? in the netherlands, you tend to say: it's not good, it's not bad. but that seems a little too cynical for european legislation. that is why the labour party votes against the pepp.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank those colleagues who spoke in support and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the presidencies, in particular the austrians, who have contributed to this, and the commission. but i would like to say to those colleagues who spoke very negatively and who are going to vote against – most of whom have actually already left the room, because they’re clearly not interested in hearing arguments! but i’ve heard a lot of fake news in this debate, as the commissioner said. for example, saying that if you vote against then you can keep these personal pension savings products off the markets – that’s rubbish. those who are going to vote against should know that they’re actually going to help the cowboys on the market, because they are on the market, and this is, as bas eickhout rightfully said, the only way of regulating. secondly, i heard that if you vote ‘for’, you’re going to weaken the public pension systems – rubbish! complete and utter rubbish! they are completely different systems. and to those colleagues who are going to vote against: you know what you should do? rather than voting against a good pepp regulation with consumer protection, address your national governments and tell them that they should reform and strengthen the public systems because it’s completely unrelated to pepp, and if the public systems are weak it’s because the national governments are not doing anything about it. and then finally to my dutch colleagues, i’m going to switch to dutch. vandaag hadden we weer het broodje-aapverhaal: zodra je in europa het woord pensioen noemt, betekent dat dat europa met zijn tengels aan de nederlandse pensioenspaarpotten gaat zitten! broodje aap, broodje aap, broodje aap! beste collega’s van de pvda, de pvv en de vvd: onzin, klinkklare onzin! alleen maar voor de koppen in de telegraaf! and finally, i heard that if we vote for the pepp that’s going to lead to tax evasion. sorry! the pepp regulation has got absolutely zero to do with tax policies. to ms arena, who is now back, it doesn’t change the tax policies at all. it is nonsense! read the regulation. the regulation is merely about setting standards – consumer protection standards – for products which are on the market. that’s all it is doing. you should welcome it! we have taken on board all the amendments of your group, which wasn’t always represented in the negotiations, except by mr gualtieri who did an excellent job, so the s&d group should be able to support this.
mr. chairman, as a parent, you want your child to get off to a good start. as labour party members, we want all parents to be able to take time off to watch their child grow up. it shouldn't be based on the thickness of your wallet, your employer, or the location of your cradle. unfortunately, low-income parents in the netherlands still cannot take leave because they are below the minimum subsistence level, and we are proud that europe has managed to make good deals. and now our minister koolmees has to pick up the ball. good leave arrangements make it easier for mothers to be independent, fathers to help with the upbringing, and parents to enjoy their newborn child together. this proposal strengthens the parent-child bond, leads to a good division of duties at home and to better opportunities for mothers on the labour market. i would say: this is a really good step towards a social europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner. i have to start by saying that i share ms gräßle’s irritation about the absence of the council, not least because it is the country concerned. (applause)but hold your applause until i have finished, because you may not be so happy any more – i also regret the absence of mr timmermans. no offence, madam commissioner, but he is the commissioner and the vice—president in charge. and what has he done over the last five years? just last week, the commission presented a kind of communication on the rule of law which was hardly worth the paper it was written on, and mr timmermans didn’t even bother to show up at the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) to present it. no, he left it to his civil servants. where is he today? what has he done in the last five years? because now i’m coming to the partisan issue. i am a bit tired of having debates here – today it’s about romania and it’s the epp criticising, tomorrow it will be about hungary and the socialists will be criticising and the epp will be, well, not silent because i know that some of you are indeed critical, i know that ms gräßle is very outspoken and very, very honest, and some other epp members as well – but these debates are always turned into a partisan issue. it is not a partisan issue. this is about the values laid down in article 2 of the treaties that concern us all, regardless of party political colour. i don’t understand – two-and-a-half years ago this house adopted a position, a proposal for a drf pact, which is a general mechanism covering all the member states, all the governments and the commission. and again, i’m not pointing at you madam commissioner, but mr timmermans is responsible here. mr timmermans said ‘oh, we don’t need that because we’ve got all the tools in the toolbox that we need’. well, we don’t. mr timmermans is a spitzenkandidat, but mr weber is also a spitzenkandidat. so i would like to know from both spitzenkandidaten, who are conspicuously absent, both as group leader and vice—president of the commission, what they intend to do once they are president of the commission. will president of the commission weber do what he voted for as mep weber, namely propose a fully—fledged drf mechanism applying equally to all the member states? to be perfectly clear here, my group, the alde group, has firmly distanced itself from the alde romania party in government because we are disappointed, not just about the changes to the penal code, but also about their failure to support equal marriage or indeed civil partnership. we are very disappointed about the attitude of the romanian government in the case of ms kövesi, and we are also very disappointed about their attempts to try and prevent the registration of new parties who want to run in the european elections. so i think we should insist on a drf pact in the next period. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – you’ve got it completely wrong. just read the minutes of this house – the attitude of this group has been completely solid. if the epp had been equally solid on mr orban, we wouldn’t be in the situation that we are in with hungary. we have to be very critical of what happens in romania. we have, as i said, formally taken our distance from the other party that is in government, and asked the european alde party to expel them from our political family. we are very firm. we do this with a heavy heart because, indeed, there are many years of political friendship. but we stand by our principles, contrary to the epp which has still not taken its distance from mr orban. i recommend that you read the minutes of this house because i personally, mr preda, took part in the debate on romania and i’ve been very critical, very critical, mr preda, and i would beg you to be equally critical of your member, mr orban. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i’m not going to enter into the details of the court case but to my knowledge, recently the court has judged … (objections from mr cristea)… can i finish, do you want to hear, are you interested in the reply? i’ve got 30 seconds and half of it has already gone. what i do know first of all is that the court has already allowed ms kövesi to travel and to speak. the point is that the arguments i always hear against do not make the matter any better, because the image that we have here is of a complete mess, and what we need is the rule of law, not just for the european union, but for the people in romania, because young people are craving a country that is stable, where the government is reliable and clean, and all the stories saying, oh, you know, somebody’s in court, and then there’s the secret services interfering. do you really think that makes it better? i don’t think so.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the rule of law is not left wing or right wing, and it’s very painful to see here that the romanian government is backing up the hungarian government by not putting the report on hungary on the agenda. everybody has said it, but it’s incredibly disappointing. the romanian presidency is not here, that is unbelievable. it’s also the presidency that is de-legitimising the parliament’s candidate for the european public prosecutor, and with that actually de-legitimising the whole process. fighting corruption is crucial in the rule of law, and we’ve got a country that is seriously backsliding and that is chairing the european council right now. give me another example... oh, i know, january 2011 when the hungarian government was chair of the council. that was also half a year when nothing happened. people, we need to be ashamed of this: six weeks before the european elections and we’ve got this as an example.
the eu is more than a single market or an economic partnership. it's a union of countries that have come together in the aftermath of war and misery, and decided that they are stronger together than they are alone. unity is power. - that's right. - what? but that is true only if that unity is built on a firm foundation of shared values. and that's a big challenge these days. we see some member states moving away from the values on which the eu was built. at the same time, we see the absence of a consistent, unambiguous response from the european commission. first vice-president timmermans did not need to be encouraged in the case of poland. he immediately, effectively, rightly and without any doubt initiated an article 7 procedure. unfortunately, however, the same determination is not apparent in the case of countries such as romania or malta. "pump and dump" seems to be the motto for bucharest and valletta. we cannot afford to have double standards in the european union. values cannot be defended only when it is politically expedient. they're far too important for that. also - or actually even rightly - if your friends don't take the rule of law very seriously, you should hold up a mirror to them. i therefore sincerely hope that in the case of romania, but certainly also in the case of malta, the european commission will finally do that.
president. - the credit crisis is still fresh in our minds. governments had to keep banks standing and europeans had to tighten their belts ever tighter. the distrust in the financial sector has never been higher. i think everyone in this room would agree with me when i say that we don't want to be in that situation with each other again. fortunately, we have [...] this package, which contains many measures to prevent us from going wrong. so if we vote for the plan, banks will have to keep more money in their reserves. so the so-called bank buffers in europe are going up. that's a good thing. but at the same time, our job is not done. too many banks have far too many bad loans on their balance sheets. if the voters give me their trust again, that is what i will be fighting for in the next five years. rules for banks need to be tightened when it comes to loans that are worth nothing or almost nothing. i also think that banks should be more careful about the government bonds they hold. because if countries are not in order, it should not affect banks and certainly not savers. let's face it, banks are not our enemy. i believe that they are essential to a good economic climate. they help us tackle terrorism and other crimes, and work towards sustainability and the financing of innovative ideas. but i do want the rotten apples of the system addressed.
madam president, indeed the news from paris is mesmerising and sad. at the end of the mandate, we also wonder whether we have learned the lessons from the financial crisis. for one, we don’t have a european volcker rule separating retail and investment bankers and we still need to finish the banking union with the european deposit insurance scheme (edis) and banks are still vulnerable and undercapitalised. therefore, i am pleased with this regulation as it is very much forward-looking. under the new rules, a systemically relevant bank must have significantly more funds to strengthen the principle of bail-in, and that’s good. the new rules also anticipate the change towards sustainable finance, giving the eba a role in assessing risk for people and planet. indeed, we need a solid and forward—looking framework, learning the lessons from the crisis and anticipating new developments. the package is a welcome step, but it’s still part of a work in progress.
madam president, the european supervisors have been troubled by many issues – too little staff, too little resources, fragmentation, national demarcations – and member states have been keen to sustain this troubled situation. i, therefore, commend the rapporteurs for having been able to defend the common european interests. indeed, a common european supervision is essential for a common european capital market that allows us to share risks and make our economies more resilient. as with the banking package we discussed earlier tonight, the supervisory structures have to learn from past mistakes and to anticipate future developments, and one of these developments is brexit. to what extent does brexit trigger a race to the bottom? the answer very much depends on how much we are prepared to stand together. a stronger supervisory framework in europe is therefore needed to cope with the consequences of brexit, but also the emergence of fintech, new legislation on sustainable finance, the fight against money laundering and terrorist finance, and it’s good that the deal addresses these issues. but one word on sustainable finance, because i think there is a role the supervisors they need to play. we know that the risk of climate change and climate change policy are not priced in right now, not on the bank balance sheets, not on the balance sheets of insurances and pension funds and not by credit rating. and they will have an impact on the financial sector. therefore, the supervisors should take the lead and take the mandate that had been given to them and to press on, making sure that these risks are priced in, and that the financial sector is prepared for the future in the short run, but also in the medium and long run. all in all, the new proposals are very timely and i congratulate the rapporteurs for striking a deal which addresses these challenges in the future and striking this deal under difficult circumstances.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, i will speak in dutch. many people are still feeling the crisis. wages are behind profits. the permanent work is under increasing pressure, while the bill of expenses and cuts has been incurred. is it not cynical that the very companies that have become the biggest in the world - apple, facebook, google, amazon - pay the least in taxes? is it not logical that many europeans - over 35% of those surveyed in germany, sweden and denmark - would have liked a digital sales tax? is it not cynical that the proposal for such a tax on digital sales has been abandoned by these countries? triple yes. there is therefore every reason to question the unanimity in the european union on taxation. and yet, you are. the proposal supported by the social democrats has had an effect. firstly, the proposal has brought the united states to the negotiating table. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. and the fundamental reform is needed: the tax on profits is from the beginning of the 20th century and has not kept up with globalization and digitalization. germany, the netherlands and other countries must now be prepared not to hide behind the idea of a minimum tax which is not a substantial answer to digitalisation and globalisation and is only a tool but they must commit to a fundamental reform of corporate taxation. the european parliament has already expressed its support for such a reform. there was a two-thirds majority for the ccctb. secondly, the proposal has led european countries themselves to be tempted to propose a digital tax. france and austria in the lead. i'll give you credit for that. it puts pressure, necessary pressure, on the international and european negotiations. i would like to call on other countries to come forward with a similar proposal. send the signal that cynicism will not prevail. it is a signal that the international negotiations must succeed. send the message that it is the biggest companies in the world that should contribute fairly to the financing of schools, affordable housing and hospitals. everyone must make an honest contribution, including the multinationals and the billionaires.
the european community is a community of free and democratic nations. the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services. those four freedoms have brought us a lot: more economic growth, more trade, more prosperity. but europe is about more than just markets, money and trade. we must ensure that the common market really becomes a fair market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization, such as the introduction of the new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the introduction of new forms of work organization, the new forms of work organization, the new forms of work organization, the new forms of work organization, the new forms of work organization, the new forms of work organization, the new forms of work and the new forms of work. so not just a free market, but above all a fair market. not just free movement of people and services, but fair movement of people and services. to achieve that, we need two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. those are the rules we've been working hard on here for the last few years. we have made equal pay for equal work in the same place a reality with the posting of workers directive, we have intensified the fight against undeclared work, we have improved the protection of workers against working with dangerous substances and we have done a great deal through the european pillar of social rights to make a fair and social europe a reality. but rules are not worth the paper they are printed on if they are not also enforced sufficiently, well and efficiently. that's a very big challenge. more than 17 million europeans live or work in a country other than their own. that number has doubled in the last ten years and will only increase in the near future. at the same time, we see that social and labour inspections in the member states are still often confined to their own national borders, making cross-border enforcement far from effective. we 're putting an end to that today . the creation of the european labour authority gives a strong impetus to cross-border enforcement and control. we are showing here today that we as a parliament also take this challenge very seriously. and we are showing that the european parliament can deliver, because the european commission put forward the proposal barely a year ago and the european labour authority is already really getting down to business. better information for citizens and businesses about their rights and obligations, bringing colleagues from different countries together to carry out joint inspections and enforcement, mediating between member states who disagree on how to enforce european rules, carrying out risk analyses of our weaknesses and how to better address them: there is more than enough to do for the new labour authority. i'm glad it's an authority, because an authority needs teeth. teeth to prevent abuse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i would like to express my gratitude. first of all to commissioner marianne thyssen, without whose initiative, energy and enthusiasm this result would not have been possible today. i would also like to thank the romanian presidency, with whom we have had a bizarrely intensive schedule of negotiations. it is thanks to that commitment that we have this result today. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues from the other groups. some of them i have seen more often during the negotiations than my own wife. don't tell my wife, but it was totally worth it. we are here today with a good result, and we owe it to the pleasant and constructive cooperation between us all. and, above all, mr president, i would like to conclude by thanking all the staff and advisers who have made this possible. because without them, nothing would be done in this parliament.
rapporteur. – madam president, it says something about the importance of the european labour authority (ela) that so many colleagues have entered the chamber to make sure not to miss the end of this debate. thank you all for your attention. for those of you who weren’t here at the beginning, let me tell you that today is a very good day. by establishing the european labour authority we are taking a crucial step towards realising a truly fair and a truly social european labour market, where we move from the free movement of workers only to ensuring fair labour mobility – a market where workers’ rights are guaranteed and protected, where there is no room for bogus self—employment, social dumping or unfair competition. in order to achieve all this we need better enforcement of the european rules in the area of labour mobility, and that is exactly what the european labour authority is going to do and it will start doing it very soon. this is a landmark achievement and it shows that the european union can deliver in an area of citizens’ concern and that it can deliver fast. so, once again, a big thank you to the european commission, commissioner thyssen, to the romanian presidency and to all our colleagues who worked together in a very good, a very constructive and a very efficient manner to get this done. i count on all of you to keep this commitment going, because we all need to work together to ensure ela’s success in the future. (applause)
i would like to ask the president-in-office to give me the opportunity to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. and i'm doing it in dutch fisherman's clothes. because if we accept the trialogue proposal, we are going to turn the necks of these families. these families are involved in pulse fishing. that future is being turned around for these children and grandchildren - we just talked about these children and grandchildren. that is why we must first vote separately on the amendments. i ask those who support that to stand up now.
the european union must be able to take a stand against the complex libyan conflict without the need for european diplomatic unity. sadly, it is lacking. paris and rome have different interests in libya, which is torn apart by two governments and numerous militias, a failed state. and if i may believe the frankfurter allgemeine, which i opened this morning, there is even within the italian government - it is a pity that mr castaldo is already gone - deep divisions over the libyan dossier. within one eu member state already. the major danger to the eu from the libyan conflagration is the jihadist groups, which are being armed on a large scale by turkey, among others. this calls for an urgent european policy of containment. i therefore submit that to the high representative in all humility.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: that's the toll of the latest fighting in libya. last month, prime minister al-serraj and general haftar came close to an agreement to normalize the situation by holding elections. nevertheless, on april 4, haftar began a deadly advance into the densely populated south of tripoli. he has only one goal: increasing pressure on al-serraj. this is how haftar plans to strengthen his position at the negotiating table. we cannot tolerate this. haftar's strategy disrespects the un peace process, leads to large numbers of civilian casualties, increases the number of migrants fleeing libya and widens the playing field for terrorist groups. i therefore ask the high representative to call for an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of haftar's forces. the eu and un-led negotiations must be given a fair chance. only then will lasting peace be within reach.
president. - mr president, i have visited the golan heights and i know how crucial this territory is to the security of israel and its citizens. anyone who has visited the golan knows that close by, on syrian territory, iran and hezbollah have a military presence. anyone who takes iran and hezbollah seriously knows that the islamic republic and its lebanese terrorist ally are seeking the complete destruction of the jewish state. if we really understand this, we will follow the american example of recognizing the golan heights as israeli territory. and whoever does that is contributing to the escalation in the region. because the israeli takeover of the golan heights will not bring peace with the syrian terror regime. those who recognize the golan as israeli territory also have historical awareness of the centuries-old biblical ties of the golan to the jewish people. a call, madam president, to the eu, including my own country, the netherlands: we must stop selective interpretation of international law and recognize the golan as israeli [...], as our ally our ally, mrs valenciano the united states does. they are allies.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the youth of sudan is the population of sudan, with an average age of 19 years old, and the youth raise their voices, with a clear role for female leaders like alaa salah, whose image you referenced. they managed what the international community did not see through: the ousting of omar al—bashir, a dictator sought by the international criminal court for crimes against humanity – crimes against the sudanese people. let the events in sudan be reminders of: one, the fact that repression cannot outlast calls for liberty and an end to corruption and injustice; two, that dealing with dictators in the eu’s short—term self—interest for, for example, managing migration, is a bad gamble against the young people of north africa and the african continent; and three, that transitions are both very hopeful but also very hard. with institutions, democratic movements, civil society and other efforts crushed, state resources systematically robbed at the cost of education to sustain the security apparatus. so to avoid a repetition of the so—called libya scenario, we should invest in democracy and peace and prevent the militia but also the military from taking the space left open and recruiting desperate youngsters. as one of the demonstrators, salma ali, said to the new york times: we’ve cut off the head but the body is still alive. as this is my last debate with you, madam high representative, i wanted to thank you for everything you’ve done. i think we need a stronger europe in the world more today than we did five years ago, and i wish you all the best.
mr president, the democratic rights of all european citizens are at stake with attempts at hacking election systems and the sprawling of disinformation by those seeking to trick people into votes they might not have independently cast without having been exposed to automated lies that spread online like wildfire. and whether it’s foreign or domestic meddling, or profit-driven, we need to be vigilant. of course, we see the ad hoc efforts that the tech platforms are promising, like youtube, facebook, google or twitter, but without independent oversight over algorithms, we outsource our responsibility, because without algorithmic accountability and research, no one can say for sure what the impact of technology use is on our democracy, and that is unacceptable. we must act now. for example, the us department of housing has filed a case against facebook because the platform allows for the selling of ads in a way that likely discriminates. so let us begin by ensuring that what is not allowed offline isn’t allowed online either. but in order to deliver on that promise we need to investigate the collection of data and the practices of micro-targeting ads and conduct stress tests on election technology. we have no time to lose. but lastly – and this is an appeal to everyone in this room and in this chamber – all political parties of europe, we need to take our own responsibility. so i call on colleagues and fellow candidates for the european parliament elections to all sign the election pledge on electionpledge.eu because we must all stand for the very principles that are at stake through election meddling and take our own responsibility. europe is only as strong as our weakest link and we have to make sure that in our measures we respect the fundamental rights of all europeans.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy. president, rapporteurs, a breakthrough has been made: after 15 years of work in the committee on regional development and the committee on industry, research and energy, we can now also use the regional funds more flexibly to scale up horizon projects without completing state aid tests per member state. i see horizon 2020 as the newest airbus, world class. and the regional funds can be that landing strip for necessary upscaling. synergy in action. at least five percent, but it could be more. it's about billions. then invisibility is a good thing. the united kingdom - the number one country in the study - has shown that we are not reaching the citizen, the voter, at all. the eu must change its way of working. of course, researchers from the ivory tower, communicate differently, let beneficiaries speak. let the stars shine. by giving voice to horizon users and beneficiaries locally and internationally. what is being accomplished? finally, it was a pleasure to work on this. results as the european institute of innovation and technology, as the european innovation council and the widening projects, with money invested: that's a great result. i enjoyed working on it. thank you, sir.
for decades, companies like bayer, monsanto and syngenta have been determining how much of their agricultural waste ends up on our land, fields and food. the consequences are clear: bee mortality, loss of biodiversity, pollution of soil and water, damage to human and animal health, and farmers who no longer even know how to produce food without chemicals. the agricultural poison mixers get away with this thanks to weak legislation, conflicts of interest at the european food safety authority, procedures based on biased studies by industry and backroom politics. the publication of the industrial studies is a small improvement, but it is far from enough. yesterday, more than 30 pesticides that have been proven to be dangerous were again authorized without evaluation or re-evaluation. that can't be true! commissioner, when will you actually apply the precautionary principle instead of the stock prices of bayer and syngenta? i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the pvda must vote against this proposal. we are not against the transferability of unemployment benefits, but we are against this effect. in the netherlands we have seen two major cases of organised fraud with unemployment benefits in recent years. employees must be able to be sure that everyone is contributing and that no one is unfairly receiving benefits, because through the premiums the employees are also getting paid for this. in practice, this proposal abolishes the obligation to apply for a job and to be available for the labour market. the extension of the transferability of unemployment benefits also contributes to an export carousel. one half of the year, employers hire people, but the other half of the year, the contract is not renewed and people are referred to benefits. we must first tackle this if we are to continue to protect workers from unemployment. we are concerned with the solidarity of the system, and this proposal does not guarantee that.
mr president, more and more europeans are living or working in a country other than their own. it is for these people that social security must be properly regulated. people should never be disadvantaged purely and simply because they cross a line. in a border region like my own limburg, this is particularly important. i am sorry, however, that i have to vote against this text tomorrow, even though many good things are being done. it's the unemployment benefits. unemployment benefits are important. people who receive them should be helped to return to work as soon as possible. that's good for them and for society as a whole. so good for all of us. there must therefore be sufficient genuine incentives to actively seek work. we see that these incentives are simply not present in the export of unemployment benefits. to give an example: in the netherlands we export about four thousand unemployment benefits a year. of these four thousand, 0.6 per cent actually find a new job during the export period. the following is the average of the three samples: that's an absurdly low score. this undermines the support for our collective social security and it affects the sense of social justice in our society. the doubling of this period of export without adding any real incentives to actually look for work is not justified in our view and therefore unacceptable for the cda.
madam president, it was not necessarily a blue card, it was more a point of order. obviously mr coburn, or anybody else from the efdd, didn’t bother enough with this debate to actually show up in time for the start of this debate, and i think it’s a bit unfair that after he’s had his beauty sleep and his breakfast he decides to show up and still has a speaking time afterwards. i don’t understand where this comes from. if you really care about these debates you can show up on time and participate. if you don’t show up, that’s your choice.
the external borders of the netherlands are no longer at vaals and venlo, but at lesbos and lampedusa. they are therefore a common challenge which we in europe can only tackle effectively together. if we want to continue to benefit from a schengen area without internal borders, if we want to know who is entering europe and for what purpose, if we want to control migration and if we want to ensure that asylum seekers who have been processed actually return to their country of origin, then this revision of the european border and coast guard is absolutely necessary. i would like to make four points. firstly, the massive expansion to a total of 10,000 border guards, so that we can finally control our external borders intensively. secondly, the idea of organising border control through integrated and joint planning rather than coming up with ad hoc measures every time there is a crisis somewhere along the external border. thirdly, if a country makes such a fuss that the entire functioning of the schengen area is jeopardised, the border and coast guard can still put things in order. finally, more opportunities for border and coast guard to work with third countries and to help member states to deter illegal migration and facilitate returns. in other words, with this decision we are taking an important and necessary step to improve our border controls. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs roberta metsola, on the effective way in which she has been so effectively given this by parliament.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for all their interest in co2 and trucks. that should also be because this is the final climate legislation that we are adopting this term so this means that, after this, we will have to have a lot of improvements for the next term. but, on this one, we can celebrate this because it is the first time that the european union is going to regulate co2 emissions from heavy—duty vehicles. it was – as it was with the co2 and cars legislation – a tough fight with a lot of resistance, but i think we managed, in good cooperation with the different shadow rapporteurs and all the different groups, whom i would like to thank for their contributions. we did not always agree, but i think, in the end, we have come to a deal which everyone can support and feel that we are touching the importance of this file, which is putting a co2 reduction of 15% in place for 2025 and, by 2030, a binding target of 30%, and especially that long—term prospects will give a very clear signal to the car manufacturers and the truck manufacturers that they will need to invest in new technologies. we also managed to close all the loopholes, mainly around the super credits, and shift that to a 2% benchmark of zero-emission vehicles, which also gives a clear signal to the manufacturers that they will not be able to stay only improving current combustion engine technologies, but that they also need to invest in new technologies for the future, which can be zero—emission, e—mobility and also hydrogen. that is still open, but this is a clear signal now to the manufacturers that this is the direction to go in. as i said, it was a hard fight. clearly, from a green perspective, we would have loved to see higher targets on the table, but i think what is very important is that now manufacturers have clarity for the longer term so that they know where their investments need to go in order to make sure that the transport sector is also cleaning up and working towards decarbonisation. because when people ask you about heavy—duty vehicles and how important it is, i would just remind you that it is 6% of the total european emissions, and of the road transport emissions, it is even 25%. so we are talking about a very important category, which is, on top of that, even increasing, whereas we know that, by 2050, we should have decarbonised our economy. that’s why it is so important to put this legislation in place. we will have reviews in place by 2022 and i can promise you that, by then, we probably will look at the targets that we agreed upon, tomorrow, and we will conclude that we can do more because of the signals we gave to the manufacturers and the investments that will go into zero-emission vehicles so that the market is also finally changing and we get new jobs and job creation also within the european union. because on heavy—duty vehicles it was really high time that, as europe, we started to regulate this because countries like the united states, japan and canada already regulated that before us. so we are catching up and making sure that innovation and these new technologies will be done within europe, creating the jobs within europe and, at the same time, delivering a decarbonisation of our transport sector, which is so badly needed if we want to achieve the paris agreement with that. i think that is a good achievement and, once again, i would like to thank all the shadows and also the commission and the council – which is not there – for their close cooperation in getting this deal done, and i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, since we are all in a thanking mood, i would like to thank commissioner arias cañete for all his work. of course we had our moments when we didn’t agree. i spent some of those hours together with you and i have to say that at all times, we had a good dialogue. we did not always agree, but there was always mutual respect and i think that’s also the way forward. you’re absolutely right. we achieved quite a lot on climate, on mobility, and on energy, but the work is not done, as you said. we are not on track yet for our climate-neutral economy and we need to act faster; greta thunberg also made that point very strongly yesterday. indeed, that’s one of the reasons why the elections in may will be about climate change. it will be a climate change election. just to conclude on this subject, mr peter liese, thank you very much for coming back. of course i can tell you where we, as a parliament, improved the text and made it more ambitious, and it’s on three very important issues. first of all, the 2030 target is now legally binding, which it was not in the initial proposal. that is very important because it’s a very clear signal for where to go. secondly, we closed quite a few loopholes in the proposals, the most important one being super credits, which are weakening when it comes to getting to your targets. we replaced them with a benchmark for low- and zero-emission vehicles. and thirdly, we improved the on-road in-service conformity to make sure that what we agree on paper is also going to be achieved in reality, which is very important, as you should know after dieselgate. so those three elements are crucial. on top of that, there are a lot of technical improvements and a review clause etc., etc., but these three things give a very clear signal to investors, and to manufacturers, that the future will be about zero- and low-emission vehicles and that just continuing with your current technologies will not do. that is a crucial element. it is an improvement compared with the initial proposal, so i had to give you that answer. thank you very much. i’m looking forward to the vote, and let’s see what we can do afterwards, especially in the run-up to the un summit in september in new york. i expect that the european union will increase its national determined contribution when we head off to new york. i see the commissioner praying, so, for once, i will pray along.
i am very grateful to the president-in-office for his reply. a very good morning to you all. i would also like to thank mrs deirdre for her report on this rather complicated subject. the digitisation of the transport sector continues unabated. hopefully this will lead to a more efficient and cleaner transport system. the maritime one-stop shop, as it is so well known, is a very diverse system, which is involved in registering ships in port. it's not just the port papers. it's also about the customs paperwork. it's about the hazardous materials. and so there are a lot of elements that are coming together in this. in fairness, the 2010 directive has failed a bit. that is why this commission has issued a new directive, which will hopefully bring about more uniformity and clarity. i am personally concerned about the cooperation between the various systems, and particularly the so-called port communication systems. how will that work in practice? i therefore hope that the commissioner will be very clear about the implementation of this directive. mr president, this was my last speech in this house. i would like to thank you all very much for the extremely pleasant cooperation, especially with two genuine liberals, mr telička and mrs bulc.
rapporteur. – mr president, climate activist greta thunberg was in the european parliament this week and said: ‘let’s save the save the planet like we are saving notre-dame’, and she’s right. we have to step up to the big challenge of our time and come into action. we have to do it step by step, stone by stone, and this report, this regulation is an important building block to make the financial sector work, not just for profits but for people and planet, to make finance part of the solution of sustainability challenges and not part of the problem. from the start, the idea has been radically simple: make sustainability part of the dna of the financial sector. let considerations of sustainability apply as broadly as possible to all financial products, to all financial institutions, for all sorts of impacts, and as always with radical ideas, it sounds simple but the implementation is not. but i still dare to say that the negotiation results still broadly reflects this idea. indeed, sustainable finance should not be stuck in the green corner, as a manifestation of goodwill while, at the same time, as an excuse for the bulk of non-sustainable investment. in fact, not in a green corner, but sustainability should be discussed in the boardrooms of banks, insurers, pension funds and asset managers. this means that sustainability considerations should be integrated in every step of the decision-making – in every step. this means everyone in the financial sector has to move. so yes, this is what we need. we need a broad scope, an unlevel playing field, so that consumers who want to know what their product is, can learn to know that, and even more important, we need a broad scope so as not to punish the front runners and to benefit the slackers. we need a broad definition of sustainability. this is a broad concept encompassing a wide array of considerations, ranging from biodiversity to human rights, from emissions to working conditions, and we need a broad framework to manage risks and impact – not only the identification of impacts but also actions to prevent and mitigate them; not just disclosure but also due diligence. i think this report makes progress on all three fronts, and that is a big win. this resonates already with the mind-shift we see in part of the financial sector. a broad range of fsas is already applying due diligence and, just this week, many of them subscribed to a call for mandatory due diligence. this enables them to show their social value but also to achieve a higher-risk adjusted return. economics and values can go hand in hand. i would like to call on the european commission and the supervisor to use the openings in this regulation to work on standards for disclosures, to better define the social impacts of investments, to work on standards for due diligence: these are what we need to truly make the transition towards sustainable finance. the message from the regulation on disclosure and on the critical benchmarks should be clear to the financial sector: finance will become sustainable. don’t wait for it but start working on it. finally, i would like to thank the representatives of parliament, the commission and the council for overcoming and bridging the significant differences we had in a short time. it has been a tremendous effort by all, and i would like to thank them from the depth of my heart. i deeply appreciate it.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by saying that i am very glad that the commission came forward with action plans for sustainable finance. i think that was a crucial change, led by commissioner dombrovskis, which i very much appreciate. i’m happy to contribute, with others, on the first steps. federica mogherini is right: it’s not the last step, far from it. this also to matt carthy: yes, we need to work on this further. but i hope that these first steps, as ms sirpa pietikäinen said, are a clear signal to the financial sector that change is coming: we are changing towards sustainable finance. this is a credible step towards that, and further steps will follow. that’s why i also now call on the commission and the supervisors to keep on working on this file. i’m happy to work in the next parliament and, if not, outside this parliament on this change that we need. having been in this debate, i also learned that there’s a change underway in the european economy. we need to break away from the anglo-saxon—american tradition of ‘move fast and break things’, in which companies and financial institutions are just actors in an economy driven by monetary incentives. we need to return to the european tradition where we take into account companies, financial institutions and the board takes into account the interests of all stakeholders. we need to return to the european tradition where firms, companies, financial institutions, banks and insurers are part of our society and act accordingly. this is the change that we need, and i think it’s underway, because i can already see this change coming. i see front—runners. maybe it’s because i’m a politician and i’m always an optimist, but i see good signs for this change. i think it’s very welcome to have this change to bring forward a fairer and more equal society. (applause)
the applicant. mr president, in my final plenary speech, i would like to make a further appeal to all the european institutions to defend religious freedom in china. i would like to see the european parliament continue to do so after the elections. because given president xi's totalitarian anti-religious campaign of recent years, the basic fundamental right of freedom of religion should be high on the agenda of upcoming eu-china summits. how can president xi combine his chinese dream with the mass incarceration of uighurs in re-education camps? how does the chinese communist party intend to maintain its public authority by persecuting over a million christians, including ten thousand church leaders, for their faith last year? that is why i call on the chinese leadership to emphasize humanity, with respect for the freedom of the chinese citizens. only then, mr president and mrs high representative, can we speak of civilization in the middle kingdom and the chinese dream has a domestic and global dimension. i thank god for his help and i heartily wish you all god's blessing.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as we speak, approximately one million people in china find themselves in arbitrary detention in camps that have been described by the un as political indoctrination camps and no-rights zones, and we cannot look away or be blinded by the gold rush that our companies are seeing when they want to do business in china. bit by bit, the chinese government is building up an extensive mass surveillance system over the uyghurs living in the xinjiang province and such measures, including the use of spyware, are heavy violations of the rights of privacy for these people. the new eu-china strategy, which i think is urgent and welcome, should have as its first action to address issues of ‘shared concern’ and i believe human rights should really top the list. we need to look further than just talking, and consistently see concerns about human rights violations raised at the highest political level. i also believe it is urgent that we look at the commercial markets of surveillance technology.
president, in october 2018, elections were held in cameroon and president paul biya was re-elected. he's been in power since 1982. how is that possible? it is not surprising, then, that people protest against it. i think the heart of today's resolution is that the european parliament says to paul biya: release maurice kamto and his men. democratic protest is part of the fabric of a country. do not let civilians appear before a military court, because civilians do not belong there. and stop looking for the confrontation and the differences because people speak different languages. that must be reflected in this european parliament. the european parliament does not pay much attention to cameroon. but it's good that we're doing it now. the situation there is in the hands of paul biya and he can bring about change.
author. – mr president, after the elections that have led to many questions in cameroon, peaceful strikes and demonstrations escalated into violent clashes and security forces were involved in serious human rights violations. hundreds of people have died, hundreds of thousands are displaced, and activists have been rounded up and jailed. oftentimes, anti-terror laws and heavy security measures are abused to justify these crackdowns. there have been cases of torture, forced disappearances and extra—judicial killings. freedom of expression is not respected, whether online or offline. so this is a very, very serious escalation. we urge the security forces in cameroon to stop the use of this disproportionate violence and to respect the human rights of all its citizens. there need to be investigations into the allegations of excessive use of force and human rights violations, and it is very important that, under the leadership of the african union, there will be peace talks that we, as the european union and all of our leaders, need to support.
author. – mr president, high representative and colleagues. ten years ago, my first intervention in this plenary addressed the human rights violations in iran. so it seems only fitting that today my last intervention calls again for more eu leadership to defend human rights. because if not us, then who will? the newly introduced sharia laws in brunei are so extreme that they violate speech rights, women’s sexual reproductive health rights and, particularly, the rights of lgbti. death penalty by stoning for homosexuality in 2019 is outrageous and barbarian, so we call for targeted magnitsky-type sanctions for individuals and we can already see that our pressure is rendering results. high representative, colleagues, everybody, i urge you to continue to build a stronger europe that is principle-based and that puts human rights first. thank you.
mr president, i have enjoyed the orange lionesses for the past month. not so long ago, women's football was unknown and unloved. and now, now europeans were watching the final in droves. the european elections were also unknown and unloved for a long time, but the climate crisis, the rise of right-wing extremism and brexit have roused people. the result is the highest turnout in decades, and that was mainly due to young people. their vote was not for ursula von der leyen. their votes went to candidates who made their positions clear before the election. imagine that the world cup final between the netherlands and the united states, after a secret match, was suddenly won by france. would anyone accept that? - no, i did not. i shall therefore not be voting for mrs von der leyen tomorrow. i want to fight for a more democratic europe, and a backroom candidate for commission president is not one of them.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is deeply troubling and is bringing hardship to millions. more than four million venezuelans have now left the country, making this the second largest displacement crisis in the world after syria, on our doorstep. but we europeans are not living up to our own legal rules and our moral obligations in receiving those seeking protection. earlier this year, i saw the consequences for myself when i was in the caribbean part of the kingdom of the netherlands. without our support, these territories face an impossible challenge in receiving refugees from venezuela. for example, on the dutch leeward islands refugees already represent over 10% of the local population. i call upon the commission to provide much—needed assistance and to use all possible diplomatic means. we should allocate funding under the eu migration fund and we should send experts from the european asylum support office. i am counting on the commission to take action.
mr president, dear prime minister rinne, as a finn i’m happy to see you amongst the european leaders who wants to protect europeans and european values. i’m delighted to see the finnish presidency is prepared to take europe on the sustainable path forward and not give up, but strengthen and not weaken europe. the topics chosen by the presidency are climate change, putting citizens in focus and promoting a more social europe, and tightly protecting the rule of law and human rights. these are all timely now. it is crucial to act now on climate. we can: we are a region of 500 million citizens. the european parliament wants to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 and yesterday we heard the same figure from ursula von der leyen in this very same hemicycle. if the european union wants to be the global leader in climate action and the global leader in technological solutions to boost jobs, i think that the eu should have a clear and solid message to take and present in september when the united nations have an extraordinary summit on climate. would you agree, prime minister?
mr president, in the finnish presidency programme, migration is mentioned under the heading 'other issues', but migration is currently one of the eu's biggest problems. in 2018, two thirds of asylum applications within the eu were not granted. so, not refugees, but economic migrants. and people drowning, and that's terrible. but this is because the eu is sending the wrong signal, causing people from africa to venture into europe despite the great risks. the problem of migration is causing great unrest. the distribution of migrants within the eu has failed. the problem must be tackled at its root. the business model of human trafficking must be dismantled immediately. migrants must be returned to their country of origin or safe country of transit before they can cross. is finland prepared to tackle this problem, to send a clear signal and to seal off the external borders?
mr president, at sea every minute counts and that is why the law of the sea obliges every actor to immediately assist people in distress and to disembark them at the first safe haven. however, our member states ignore these obligations and on top of that, they also work against ngos which do save lives. and instead of ensuring safety and protection they organise unlawful pull-backs to libya, where migrants are exposed to violence, inhuman treatment in detention centres and to the risk of refoulement. we need to stop these shameful violations of international law close to our borders. we need to act united and in solidarity and that means more capacity for search-and-rescue actions at eu level and equally shared responsibility for rescued persons who ask for asylum, not ad hoc but on a sustainable basis. it also means that we need to ensure that refugees have access to safe routes and durable protection and we welcome the announcement from ms von der leyen on human corridors. but finally, acknowledging our responsibility for the drownings in the mediterranean also requires that we ensure that the human rights of migrants and refugees are not affected as a consequence of our cooperation with libya. so it means that we need to scrutinise the eu budget that we invest in cooperation with libya to check it does not affect their human rights. after all, out of sight does not mean out of rights.
author. – madam president, pushback policies towards migrants at the border are an increasing tendency all over the world. they are a grave violation of the refugee convention as they deprive migrants of the right to seek asylum and get protection if they are in need of this. the results are painfully visible in the mexican-us border region, and this resolution therefore urges both countries to live up to their international obligations. trump’s policy is shamelessly violating international law by separating children from their parents and even detaining them, by detaining many migrants in appalling circumstances and by sending asylum seekers back to mexican cities. back in mexico they struggle to get access to an asylum procedure, and if they manage to lodge an asylum claim, the lengthy procedure is unclear and lacks the normal safeguards. as asylum seekers don’t have access to shelter or other basic needs, they are extremely vulnerable to exploitation and violence. the us government refuses to take any responsibility and is forcing mexico to deal with the migrants and refugees. in autumn last year most countries ratified the un global compact on refugees, in which almost all countries promised to share responsibility for refugees. pushback actions go totally against this common objective and they also trigger the same policies in other countries. if there’s no common responsibility, no one wants to take it up. the usa did not sign this compact but it still has to comply with its international obligations. it is therefore crucial that our parliament does not accept these violations and that it urges a halt to these practices and calls for human rights to be respected.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mr norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the patentability of plants and essentially biological processes (2019/2800 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. barrier-free access to plant material is the basic prerequisite for the innovative power of european plant breeders and our farmers, and for the genetic diversity of our plants. this was agreed by all the members at the last meeting of the committee on agriculture on 4 september. however, the decision of the technical board of appeal of the european patent office of december 2018 has put that barrier-free access at risk. the members of my committee have therefore unanimously decided to send a clear political message. as chairman of the committee on agriculture, i should like to present the background to this request to the commission, drawn up by the committee on agriculture, pursuant to rule 136 of the rules of procedure. in 2015, the technical board of appeal of the european patent office decided that products obtained from essentially biological processes, such as plant seeds, natural traits and genes, should be patentable. as a result of this decision, a patent application was filed for a variety of broccoli and a variety of tomato. in response, parliament adopted a resolution in december 2015 clarifying the patent law for plants. this is essentially directive 98/44/ec, which grants patent protection to biotechnological inventions. the commission stated in november 2016 that it was never intended to grant patents on natural characteristics. all the member states supported this interpretation. the commission's proposal was followed by internal differences of interpretation between the administrative council of the european patent office, which followed the commission's line, and the technical board of appeal. the latter maintained their position that the patentability of plants should be allowed. the president of the european patent office then applied to the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office, which is the highest court, for a final judgment. in this context, third parties are entitled to submit written statements of the facts to the enlarged board of appeal. the deadline for submitting such information is 1 october 2019. the committee on agriculture has two questions for the european commission today. firstly, does the commission intend to make a written statement to the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in order to protect the innovation capacity of the union's plant breeding sector and the general public interest? secondly, what measures is the commission taking to ensure that products derived from natural processes are not patentable? our european plant breeders and agriculture need to be clear about their future capacity for innovation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for raising this issue because, as was said, it is extremely important to have clarity there. so let me start with the second part of your question, and here the answer is rather simple. the european commission has taken action to ensure that products resulting from natural processes are not patentable. the commission has been in close contact both with the european parliament, the council, of course, the member states, and also with the industry stakeholders in relation to the issue of the non-patentability of these products. as requested by the european parliament in its resolution of december 2015, the commission adopted in 2016 a notice on certain articles of the directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. the commission argues in the notice that plants obtained by essentially biological processes should not be patentable. the commission notice was unanimously welcomed by the council conclusions at the end of february 2017, and then eu member states followed this interpretation in the national laws, and in their patent practices. now to the first part of your question. indeed, the commission, representing the eu, will present so-called amicus curiae observations in the proceeding initiated by the president of the european patent office. this will be done before the deadline of 1 october. while the european patent convention is not part of union law, it is in the european union’s interest to avoid a conflict between the european patent convention and the biotechnology directive. the practical effects of the directive would be seriously compromised if the epo can grant patents for subject matters which the directive excludes from patentability. the substance of the observation will therefore seek an interpretation of the european patent convention in line with the directive, as interpreted in the above-mentioned commission notice from 2016, and thus by the european parliament, the council and even all 38 contracting states of the european patent organisation. thus the context of the submission of the commission will support both the innovative capacity of the european plant breeding sector and the general public interest.
on behalf of the ppe group, mr president, commissioner, thank you very much. as parliament, we made a clear demand at the end of 2015 that natural plant characteristics should remain freely available for the development of new varieties. we have said that, and that the patentability of plants obtained by means of a 'process of essentially biological nature' must be ended as soon as possible. this was resolved, or so it seemed, by correctly recording it in rule 28 (2) of the epc, after a good statement on behalf of the commission in 2016, as you have just said. unfortunately, one of the multinationals contested this and a technical board of appeal of the european patent office decided on 5 december 2018 that this rule was invalid and therefore not applicable. it is wrong that the technical chamber has tried to deal with this matter itself and has ruled against the democratic will of the co-legislator, including this parliament. this explanatory statement by the commission makes it clear that when the european biotechnology directive was drawn up, it was never the intention of the european commission, the council or the parliament to make possible, or to leave open, the patentability of natural properties or of a process of essentially biological nature by means of this directive. it is therefore now a democratic imperative that the commission, this parliament and the member states make their views known and present them in due time to the enlarged board of appeal of the epo as co-legislator and contracting party. it is important that we make it impossible as soon as possible to obtain patents on plants by means of an essentially biological process and defend plant breeders' rights! if the grand chamber decides otherwise, the european institutions, as co-legislators, will have to resort to other legal means. we do not tolerate patents on life!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, we do not want products from biological processes to be patentable. this is a matter of political ethics and an economic issue. we don't want a few rich multinationals or rich agri-food groups to put obstacles in the way of plant breeding equipment. we must fight to promote innovation. we are in favour of the genetic diversity of cultures and we must fight to ensure that the health of european citizens remains a priority. free access to plant materials is essential for the innovation capacity of the plant breeding sector and of european farmers, who are once again being forgotten. these drifting would prevent any breeder from accessing and using existing varieties to create new varieties, and any farmer from producing his own seeds. i don't want a few big agribusiness groups to have a monopoly on the living. companies whose only goal is to make money at the expense of innovation and shared progress.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. even though the european patent office said it would not grant patents for the time being, there was still a legal debate about whether it should or should not. this is causing great uncertainty and concern among growers and citizens. plant traits such as the red color of tomatoes, the taste of sweet peppers, or the long stem of broccoli are natural. it's crazy, of course, that a company could patent that. this is at best discovered and definitely not invented. not only am i morally opposed to patenting it, i am also very concerned about the consequences if it is possible. i see a race coming up and a few companies getting all the patents and a monopoly on fruit and vegetables. and that clears the way for usury on our food. and it also happens to inhibit innovation, like that red color of tomatoes. other growers cannot continue to breed with it and the result is that there is no development of new crops. this is a major risk to our global food supply, because it makes crops extremely vulnerable to new diseases and new pests. i understand very well that companies are keen to commercialise their new crops, but patent law is not the right instrument for that. the right way to do that is to have a breeder's right. i therefore ask all of you to give us your clear support so that we as the european parliament can once again send a strong signal that it was never our intention that it should be possible to grant patents on plant characteristics and that we absolutely do not want that now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is very annoying that we have to deal with this for the third time: we had a resolution in 2012, in 2015 and now again, because the european patent office is actually ignoring what we want politically, namely no patents on life, no patents on biological processes. the european patent office has an interest in granting patents, of course - that is quite clear - an economic interest. but here we have to get the policy, here we have to get the wheel, so to speak, and the european commission has to put pressure very strongly now, because it is not possible for an institution to largely ignore the decisions of the legislator. we have to decide again on broccoli and tomatoes, but this is a fundamental decision: if we do not give farmers and small farmers the right to use their varieties now, then, and we have to look at this in the long term, more and more companies will try to apply for patents, to secure their rights to them, and those who really need it most, namely the farmers and small farmers, will lose their rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the group of the european right - mr. president, this is a dead end. otherwise i cannot describe the path that has been taken with regard to the granting of patents on plant characteristics. it gives a limited number of companies powerful monopoly positions. that's what it does. but the price is high, too high for us. because breeding companies are losing their free access to genetic resources, whereas that free access is crucial for the further development of even better breeds. i am pleased to see the broad consensus in this house on this subject. let us send a strong signal to the european patent office this week that this patentation maze must be abandoned as soon as possible. of course, intellectual property rights must also be adequately protected in plant breeding. but for that we already have a nice and balanced system, namely the system of breeders' rights. patents simply do not belong in the plant world. a plant is not an invention, plants are all of us. actually, i should say it another way. they are part of god's creation, and we humans are its stewards.
mr president, three iranian women’s rights activists disappeared and were sentenced to 16 and 22 years in prison. and their crime you ask? taking the liberty to decide for themselves what to wear. in reality, this is about a regime of men scared of women claiming their rights and demanding equality. this latest incident is not an isolated one. the iranian regime has a long history of human rights abuses. there have been thousands of sham court cases, many of which even led to the death penalty. madam commissioner, i urge you and the high representative to do everything in your power to have these courageous women’s rights defenders released immediately. no government should arrest and imprison women for what they wear, not in iran and not in europe. we don’t need men in power to tell us what to wear.
president, the new president of the european commission wants to have the highest standards of transparency, and that is good news, because the european commission's staff is mixed. the code of conduct has now been revised, but many voters still remember the revolving door of mr barroso going to work for goldman sachs, or the absurd flash-promotion of mr selmayr. it is good that the bar is being raised, but we are not there yet, and that is why i would also like to address the finnish presidency. i hear the fine words from you, but i would like to call on you to take a very concrete action. the presidency of the council is usually sponsored by private parties. for example, finland has accepted 100 cars from a major car manufacturer in the year of the revision of european emission standards for passenger cars. that seems to me to be a clear example of a conflict of interest. my specific question is therefore: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this debate is called ‘us tariffs on european goods following wto’s decision on the airbus dispute’. but today, what we’re really talking about is our dutch cheese manufacturers, our scottish distillers and our french winemakers. these, and other european businesses, will be hit if the us tariffs are put into force on 18 october. they are the ones that suffer the consequences when their products become more expensive on the us market, as will american businesses, should europe decide to retaliate after the wto ruling in the boeing case next spring. our us-eu trade relations go back many years and form one of the most important pillars to our transatlantic partnership, a partnership that is built on our shared values such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. our free trade has brought us prosperity. it has created jobs and made businesses throughout europe flourish. i believe that in times where free trade is increasingly challenged worldwide, our transatlantic partnership should be strengthened rather than undermined. we cannot allow ourselves to be dragged into a vicious circle of tariff after tariff. it is not too late to avoid the harmful consequences of the usd 7.5 billion worth of tariffs. i therefore urge not only the commissioner but also the us administration and my colleagues in the us congress to work with us towards an agreement. it is only by working together that we can resolve this situation and citizens and businesses on both sides of the atlantic can continue to enjoy the benefits of free trade.
madam president, the occupation of turkey in north syria is not only a slap in the face of the kurdish forces who have fought isis and are now in imminent danger; it is also extremely dangerous for the two million refugees that erdoğan threatens to send back to syria. despite this threat, commissioner avramopoulos talked with turkey about refreshing the eu-turkey deal only last week. it’s high time to show that this deal doesn’t hold a grip over the eu’s foreign policy. i’m happy to learn that the high commissioner is urging turkey to refrain from military occupation and to refrain from the deportation of refugees. but what will be the repercussions if president erdoğan refuses to do so? is the eu prepared to step up its resettlement efforts?
mr president, i’m very happy that the gue/ngl group raises this issue, because the situation is indeed very concerning and very acute. we want this theme to be properly addressed in this plenary, and therefore we think it would be more effective to have a debate together with a resolution, and that we could have it within two weeks in the mini—plenary session of november – the first part—session. so that would be my proposal in order to have it more thoroughly addressed and, hopefully, more effective.
mr president, if the cowardly attack on the synagogue in halle on the day of atonement makes one thing clear, it is that anti-semitism is still alive and well in 2019. in fact, the figures show a shocking increase in the number of incidents. anti-semitism is a multi-headed monster with multiple faces: right, left and islamic. and we just can't seem to get a handle on it. i therefore call on the european commission to make the fight against it a top priority for the coming years. free up sufficient manpower and resources to tackle the much needed coordination, and do so together with the member states which need to tackle anti-semitism much more vigorously. mr president, we cannot look the other way any longer.
madam president, above all in having this debate, our thoughts are with the victims in the attack in halle and their loved ones. across the world, right-wing extremism is threatening various groups in our society – from christchurch to halle, you are dealing with people who think they are superior because of their race, gender and beliefs. we all know what this kind of thinking leads to. far-right internet platforms make it much easier to nurture their hateful world view, and social media are the weapon they use to spread their awful ideas. therefore, we need to demand openness and cooperation of social media platforms and tech companies. algorithms need to be open so that we can understand what drives the spread of information which terrorists use to their advantage. so i call upon the commission to push big tech companies and internet platforms to disclose this information and provide transparency.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the european asylum support office is a key eu partner for dealing with migration challenges. increasing instability at eu borders has made migration one of the most pressing political issues and unfortunately, much too often, a human tragedy. easo’s assignment is a hefty one. it has to coordinate policies of eu member states on asylum. it has to improve the implementation of the common european asylum system, and it has to support member states under pressure, such as greece and italy. in order for easo to perform all of these important tasks, it needs our support and, indeed, it has the support of the s&d. but regrettably, from a budgetary control point of view, there have, during 2017 and previously, been a number of irregularities. those irregularities occurred both in the management of staff and in the expenditure of payments, and they were such that s&d tomorrow cannot vote in favour of granting discharge over 2017. that said, we also note the improvements made at easo after the change of management in 2018, and the new director, ms gregori, has made considerable progress in tackling past problems, as well as presenting a coherent set of corrective actions for the future. she deserves all the support she can get in implementing those actions. therefore, i’m pleased that the resolution, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, emphasises these positive developments. with the current pace of progress at easo, it should be able to leave past problems behind and fully focus on the tough assignment that it has – that of supporting the eu’s asylum policies. i hope that will mean that we can now move forward because, ultimately, we need easo as a key ally in addressing our common migration challenges and avoiding further human tragedy at our borders.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i welcome this report and especially its critical stance on the private sponsorships of the rotating presidency of the council. to sketch out the problem for you, romania was sponsored by coca cola at a time when the council was negotiating rules on foodstuff labelling. finland accepted 100 bmw vehicles while it was reviewing emission norms for cars. the incoming croatian presidency has published a paper on how private companies can seize the business opportunities that come with their presidency. corporate sponsorships, in my opinion, discredit the eu. what is at stake here is not only conflicts of interest and transparency, but also trust. in the last european elections, more young people than ever cast their vote. they show trust in the european project and we should be cherishing that trust. these sponsorships undermine the trust that we were given and they show the eu at its worst. the eu, not for the many, but for the few, namely a few corporate sponsors. instead of this, what we need is an eu that puts the public good first and curbs the power of vested interests. so two weeks ago, i stood here and i asked the council presidency this very same question: what are you going to do about private sponsorships? the finnish presidency then dodged the question and said, well, this is a matter for the member states. but the last time i checked, finland was a member state and the council was made up of member states. so i will ask you again, will you choose to be a force that undermines eu citizens’ trust, or will you tackle these private sponsorships and work with the european parliament to reinforce trust in the eu?
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the turkish military operation in north-eastern syria is cause for a great concern and is leading to chaos in the region. reports speak of hundreds of casualties, hundreds of thousands of displaced people, and even of executions. isis terrorists have escaped prison and as a direct result of the turkish move and the us withdrawal, revival of isis and the possible return of these terrorists to european soil presents also an immediate safety threat to our societies, for our citizens. by asking questions to the european commission, by sending a letter to the high representative ms mogherini, which was widely supported by more than 250 colleagues – and i am grateful for that – and by engaging with the turkish authorities, i have in the past weeks attempted on behalf of renew europe to contribute to ending this violence. but so far, the eu’s response has not been strong enough. we cannot just stand by and see how others interfere, for example, russia, assad, iran. it’s also our safety that is at stake. for renew europe, the road does not end here. tomorrow, the european parliament has the unique opportunity to speak with one clear voice, one voice to make perfectly clear to turkey that we do not accept this, and to call upon the eu to take a strong stance now. i ask my colleagues in this house to support me in urging the high representative to set up an immediate dialogue with the turkish authorities, to reach a sustainable solution, and to hold erdoğan to his promise of keeping isis prisoners in detention. however, we must be prepared for firmer action. arms, economic and targeted sanctions are also on the table. let us combine our strength and show unity and bring an end to the violence now. we owe it to the people in the region and to our european citizens. please, commission, get off the side-line and act.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, exactly two weeks ago turkey began a planned military offensive in north-east syria and two weeks in which many civilians have been killed, nearly 200 000 syrians were forced to flee their homes and among them are 80 000 children in desperate need of aid and shelter, while humanitarian organisations were forced to leave the country. the situation in syria is again a humanitarian tragedy which should not continue another day. the withdrawal of the us troops has left the syrian and kurdish people with no other option than to wait for the solution erdoğan and putin will come up with. although the eu should use its power to de-escalate the conflict and stop the violence, it seems to be invisible on the world stage and therefore today the greens call upon the eu to take up its role as a proactive actor to force erdoğan to withdraw his troops and refrain from deporting syrian refugees back to syria, by placing targeted sanctions and visa bans on turkish government officials, imposing a full arms embargo and by working on suspension of the trade agreements. at the same time we should proactively protect the syrian refugees by stepping up their resettlement and take our fair share in their protection. we cannot wait any longer with action and we therefore urge the support for the proposed resolution. mr president, isis terrorists escape displacement camps posing a risk to the syrian people and leaving us with no control over the persecution. the greens therefore urge the eu member states to repatriate their nationals and their family members to prosecute them at home and take care of their children. it’s our duty to reduce the security risk and also to prevent children from being the victims. and as we all know one of the goals of erdoğan’s invasion is to deport syrian refugees to their country. however, even a so—called safe zone cannot protect them against violence and persecution, as deportation would violate the refugee convention the eu must refrain from returning syrian refugees to turkey as long as this risk of deportation exists. but deportation would also mean a demographic change of the population in north-east syria, which is also a crime against humanity. as the kurds, who fought on our side, will probably lose their autonomy the eu should at least make all efforts to ensure that their rights are upheld. so high time to be pro-active. (applause)
mr president, what has happened is unacceptable. the peaceful coexistence of kurds, christians and yazidis under democratic self-government in northeast syria has been brutally disrupted by the turkish advance, which has been given the orwellian name of 'peace spring'. our allies who have sacrificed themselves in the fight against isil in the interest of our european security are being brutally dispersed, resulting in a new humanitarian crisis and further destabilisation. where is europe, or rather, where was europe? earlier this year, eu member states refused one by one when the us requested military support for the syrian democratic forces. speaking of fairness. but it is clear that turkey has crossed a line. this requires a strong eu response, more than the weak condemnation so far, hostage to the turkish stranglehold on the refugee deal. how credible is turkey as a candidate country? it is time to conclude the accession negotiations. or is the eu giving in to turkish kurdophobia and erdoğan's ottoman aspirations?
- i'm not going to. if you don't want to hear my answer, then you're not going to understand anything. i'm trying to. i hear that the english translation is a little slower today than usual. after the vote on block 7:
madam president, there was no roll call at block 7. that's why the hand signals were enough. at the end of the vote:
president-in-office of the council. – mr. president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen. the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for the financial year 2020. i take note of the differences in the positions of our two institutions concerning the draft budget for 2020 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee, as required in point c of paragraph 4 of article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
thank you, mr secretary of state. parliament will now convene the conciliation committee. there is no need for a final vote.
i would like to thank you very much, mr villumsen. is there any objection to that? i would like to make it clear again that there are no oral amendments. the question is, are there any objections? and they are not expressed in this house by word of mouth, but by standing. i see more than 40 colleagues, and that means that the oral amendment is not admissible.
i want to take this opportunity again, ladies and gentlemen. because so many are new, again the special note: please leave your voting card in the machine until the light on your machine is extinguished. if you withdraw your ballot before the close of voting, your vote is forfeit. the vote will not be counted for or against or abstention, nor will your participation in the vote be taken into account.
member of thecommission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, the commission takes note of this resolution adopted by the european parliament. it affirms that the draft commission regulation is in line with the procedural steps set out in council decision 1999/468/ec on comitology and regulation no 1107/2009, and that it is therefore within the implementing powers conferred on the commission in the latter regulation. furthermore, the standing committee has given a favourable opinion on the draft act and the council has already decided not to oppose it. the commission regrets that the european parliament has rejected this measure, which would have strengthened the assessment of the acute risk to honeybees. no part of the 2013 efsa bee guidance document can now be implemented, and the overall protection of bees cannot be improved.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have just voted on the budget. my party voted no, as usual. that's because we see money being wasted. there's an astronomical amount of money being wasted in this house. the uk's departure has not been taken into account. we need to cut the budget. there are only new demands for an expanded budget all the time. what we are also seeing is that the waste in the various institutions is reaching ever greater heights. the european court of auditors has now revealed that the council of ministers is spending taxpayers' money on wine, champagne, food, open bar: more than sek 1 240 000 on 4 000 bottles of champagne last year, sek 1 240 000 on filling up the wine cellar, sek 625 000 on a closing party with a three-course dinner and an all-night open bar party for the staff, sek 500 000 on a kick-off at an amusement park for the staff and sek 300 000 on the rental of designer furniture. this has to stop, it has to end.
mr president, i have supported and endorsed this version of the budget, and i think there are a number of positive trends. it's very important to us that money is being raised for frontex. we promised it in the campaign. i think it is important that money is being raised for erasmus, which i therefore regard as an important programme to promote the mobility and education of young people, and an indirectly good tool in the fight against youth unemployment in europe. i also welcome the fact that almost a fifth of the european union budget goes to environmental programmes and is directed towards combating climate change. i think that's very important. we are debating whether the european union is fighting climate change. the budget we are discussing is proof that we are fighting hard enough to keep the money flowing. so i support the budget and hope that it will be finally adopted after negotiations between the institutions of the european union.
the president cannot support this report, because it is not in the best interests of the military. i'm gonna throw you out of here and make you proud. the chairman is not entitled to go to the european union without a written request from ireland to the european parliament. ta mu chun is inside the throid. no reason why we shouldn't support those laws.
mr president, i too supported the draft budget for 2020 because it contains important solutions that we support. it's the erasmus programme, which means training, internships for young people who need to get started. in the meantime, over the past six years, the european union has supported the creation of 14 million new jobs for the unemployed, and these funds certainly contribute. i am glad that some of the harmful proposals have been rejected, such as the proposal to stop the common agricultural policy. we would then be depriving thousands of small and mediumsized farmers of their support. it is good that this proposal was rejected. on the contrary, we have approved the proposal that the european union suspend financing of pre-accession funds with turkey next year. of course, not to stop the activities that support civil society, students, in short, the activities that support the democratic system in turkey.
mr president, like my colleagues in the national assembly, i voted against amendment no 37 to the hohlmeier report tabled by the far-left group because it calls for the abolition of the common agricultural policy. the cap is certainly open to criticism, and it is not wrong to imagine that it could one day be replaced by another system which would restore responsibility for agricultural policy to each state, but for the time being the cap exists and is supported by a political majority. the best thing to do in the short term is to preserve it, while taking advantage of the current renegotiation to try to improve it. i would particularly like to see a ceiling on aid to large farmers so that more aid is given to small farmers. the objective guiding the rn is to defend the model of quality and human-sized agriculture, which is one of the constituent elements of french identity.
mr president, i wanted to show my vote in favour of next year's budget for the european union because it is ambitious enough from this parliament with certain programmes, because i do believe in the common agricultural policy and that more resources must be put into it not only to benefit farmers but also to prevent our rural areas from being depopulated, or for programmes like erasmus. but i would also like to highlight one amendment, amendment no 20, which we approved by a majority of 586 votes, which makes provision for tripartite negotiations to be held in order to be able to agree on measures to support the agri-food sector affected by the increase in tariffs or the imposition of new tariffs by the united states on our agri-food products, which have nothing to do with this trade war that the united states is starting with the european union and which our farmers and livestock farmers are always having to pay for. i am therefore pleased that my group and the whole house have adopted amendment no 20 on support for european farmers.
mr president, i voted in favour of the general budget because it supports programmes for youth, science, climate projects, but i am against some positions in block 15. i am sure that those who agreed to give taxpayers’ money for the product provided by the east stratcom task force did not see it at all since nobody in their right mind would pay for such a disgusting product called disinformation review. where do the facts come from for this disinformation review? where is the false data demonstrated? nowhere. just assertions that there are exaggerations in presentations of the real facts – but who can measure exaggerations? one recent example from my state, latvia. stratcom exposes misinformation in the following text of sputnik belarus: latvian stratcom companies struggle because of their russian counter sections, but it is the truth and the latvian media reflects and states the same information, but while latvia media are reporting well, belarus are reporting badly
mr president, i too wish to highlight the continued budgetary support and resources for the erasmus+ programme, but in doing so, let me highlight yet again the continued doubt and uncertainty because of brexit of the uk’s continued participation in erasmus, a programme that thousands of young people from the uk have benefited from this year and in previous years. the association of colleges recently found that 94% of colleges in the uk would not be able to replicate the opportunities of erasmus if the uk was not part of that programme going forward. and of course, young people who want to take part in the erasmus programme in the uk beyond 2020 would not have been able to have a say on the brexit referendum in 2016. so i call on the uk government today to make clear their continued commitment to the uk’s participation in erasmus and to give all those young people a say on whether they want brexit to happen or not.
i want to, like my colleague, matt carthy, to speak the language of my fellow citizens. there was no support for giving in to the many within, but it is even without doing. they are so full of themselves that they remember you, and you will be happy. we're not going to fail to praise you here, we're going to help you. in particular, as regards erasmus+, the programme has been very successful, with a number of projects in europe, and has been very successful. it is maith san. freisin, was atthas or support laws in many of the laws on climate change and agonist. it's a boy who's unstoppable, but we need our goals and we don't want to be late to achieve them. it is very urgent at the moment, it is very difficult in many countries and it is even difficult for us to give them what they need to do. the report therefore calls for support for laws and regulations that will make the eu's citizens more aware of the eu and its citizens.
the european asylum support office's core task, mr president, is to coordinate the asylum policies of the various eu member states through research. but the organization has acted legally and ethically reprehensible. following previous problems in 2016, there were again integrity issues in 2017. the european anti-fraud office came to the following conclusions: fraudulent procurement procedures, misuse of union funds, maladministration, abuse of a position in the field of human resources, breach of data protection rules and intimidation and inappropriate behaviour towards staff. as far as we are concerned, this is the very last chance for the european asylum support office: no improvement means no right to exist. we want full transparency in this matter and have therefore not agreed to discharge. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through the hottest year ever. the climate emergency is real, it's happening every day. it is already impacting and hitting the most vulnerable populations. the time for conferences and debates is over! the urgency of the observation must be matched by the urgency of action. the urgency of action is that this european parliament declares a climate emergency to push the european commission to reduce our co2 emissions by at least 60% by 2030. it is also the case that the maritime and aviation sectors, for example through a kerosene tax, are finally participating in this transition. it's to show that the battle of the climate is the battle of jobs, it's the battle of welfare and it's the battle of our common good. all this can only be done if we have the citizens on our side. we must show the young people in the streets, the young people who are watching us, who are waiting for us, that we have finally understood the message and that we have the political courage to say correctly: we will act quickly, strongly and well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent, highly publicized climate protests have raised the prospect of catastrophic scenarios, without offering any real solutions. europe has already significantly reduced its greenhouse gas emissions over the past 30 years. frans now proposes to achieve "climate neutrality" by 2050, a laudable goal but one that is so burdensome and sudden that it will weigh on citizens and businesses. italy, by investing huge resources, will reach the 2020 decarbonisation targets, other european states, which do respect the stability pact, use coal or worse still lignite for 40% of their energy mix, and will not reach the set targets. but then, is it more important to respect the budget balance or to protect the environment? and whoever doesn't meet the parameters in this case doesn't pay? pollution does not stop at national borders. we are concluding trade agreements with countries which have no environmental constraints and by importing their products we are contributing to pollution and creating unfair competition to the detriment of our own companies, which are rightly subject to stringent environmental constraints. it is a europe that is already in a hole, but is still digging its way out.
madam president, the next commission needs its highest based approach towards climate change, biodiversity loss and all the other ecological emergencies. that means that all the political initiatives and regulations proposed need to be measured up by the size of the challenge within the next 30 years, because we are underachieving in our decisions and proposals. so what we do needs to equal the size of the challenge, and that basically means that we need to at least double our efforts if we are going to tackle it. secondly, we need a circular economy package. we need sustainable financial steps and impact assessments of the cost of non-actions. let’s not be the democracies in denial that are sleepwalking to catastrophe. we know what the challenge is and we do have the technology to tackle that. and yes, we do have the money. it is only the 20 centimetres behind our ears that prevents appropriate action.
madam president, it is clear that climate change has gone from being a future threat to becoming a present emergency. scientists keep telling us that if we don't act now, the damage is going to be irreparable, and that damage is a real threat to our way of life. the young people repeat this every weekend when they demonstrate to demand strong action from us and the united nations tells us this, organising summits to ask the entire international community to act. that we act with a smart, ambitious and fair plan to decarbonize our economy and be carbon neutral by 2050. and that is to act on our energy, infrastructure, taxes, transport, international trade. that's the scale of the change that needs to be made. and we have to do it by mobilizing enough resources to make those changes a reality - the european green deal - and by putting in place social buffers to allow those who are disadvantaged to accompany those changes. and, moreover, doing it in the european way - the best way possible - because you cannot negotiate with the climate, you cannot compete with it. the climate can only be cooperated with, which is what the european union and this house are for.
mr president, the members are talking about climate change as if the end of the world had come. they are omens, but the factual basis is lacking. co2 is not a pollutant. it's an essential molecule for all life on earth. climate has been changing for as long as the planet has existed. measurement is science, and climate measurements are very different from climate models. warming is now only half of the predicted value. there is no statistical evidence that there are more hurricanes, floods or droughts. sea levels have been rising steadily for 130 years at just one inch [1.86 mm] per year, and this is not accelerating. yes, the ice in the north pole is melting, but in contrast, the ice in the south pole is growing faster than expected. the little ice age ended only 170 years ago. it is therefore not surprising that we are now experiencing a period of warming. but there's no need to panic, and there's no need for greta. we will just have to make adjustments, as we have always done.
madam president, we cannot have a debate about climate emergency without talking about the measures we need to take. that is the difference between the eu being a leader or pretending to be a leader. i know that some people in this house think that we already do a lot, but are we really the cleanest continent? it is true that emissions in the eu have decreased, but our carbon footprint is still increasing. who do you think china is producing for? we are the biggest consumer market, so we have a responsibility to lead, and as true leaders we have to invest in climate diplomacy, get rid of fossil fuel subsidies, introduce a climate law and start using natural solutions. i’m not convinced when i hear ms von der leyen say we need to go for a 50% reduction and if other countries follow, we go for 55. this is not only pretending to be a leader, this is ignoring the current climate emergency. it’s time to show leadership. it’s time to show ambition.
mr president, we have a great responsibility to our children and future generations to pass on the world in a sustainable way. sustainability means three things to me. sustainable means a cleaner world, and we need to be very ambitious about that. sustainable also means an eu that is strategically independent of russia or the middle east in terms of energy. so we need to look strategically at where we can best use solar, wind or other sustainable technologies in europe and how we can all benefit from them. sustainable means, finally, an eu with a strong economy, so that our children can once again provide a good future for their children. so we need to plan a fair transition for residents, businesses and industry. are we using existing gas infrastructure wisely, for example, so that it can be used for other, more sustainable purposes in the future? and can companies take advantage of the opportunities that the transition will undoubtedly bring? ambitious, clean, strategic and a strong economy: these are the components that make climate plans truly sustainable.
president, we have been talking so much about one country and one particular issue in the last few months that you would almost forget that there are 27 other countries in the eu which will soon have to have a budget for the next seven years. this budget offers an opportunity not only for a more social and green europe but also to deal with a few persistent bottlenecks. the latter is confirmed by the report of the european court of auditors. the unclaimed funds of 280 billion euros are of course particularly problematic. some countries seem to be failing to get approved projects. often these are the countries which can best use european funds for their economic development. it is therefore time to make budgetary planning more sensible so that money can be better directed to good projects with european added value. investment in european railways is one example. in short: let's make the next seven years work on "project seeks money" instead of "money seeks project".
madam president, at sea every minute counts. it’s hard to imagine that we would leave eu citizens in danger of drowning, floating in a rubber dinghy without any help. yet this is what we do with migrants on a daily basis. but international maritime law obliges also the eu, as a party to the unclos treaty, to take responsibility for an adequate search and rescue. that requires sufficient capacity in the mediterranean sea, rapid coordination of the rescue, and disembarkation to a place of safety. as libya is not safe, we cannot fund and organise their return to tripoli without violating international law. what we should do instead is help migrants escape from this hell. this requires all member states to take their responsibility and humanitarian assistance to be supported instead of criminalised. i urge the commission to base its new arrangements on these principles, make it permanent, and make it swift. but please ensure saving lives and disembarkation in the meantime, as every minute counts.
madam president! i do not deny the need to save lives, but unfortunately the rescue operations in the mediterranean by ngos are very often exploited by people smugglers. it's a cruel and cynical business that makes over 10 billion dollars a year from human suffering and naivety. frontex has rescued 88,000 people at sea in the past year, but rescue operations are not its main task. frontex is responsible for preventing terrorists and criminals from entering the union. unfortunately, people are being trafficked without any identity checks or criminal background checks. rescue operations should be the exception, ladies and gentlemen, not the rule. to stop the smuggling of people by sea, we need to act on land. a permanent relocation mechanism will only seal this curious, criminal smuggling business, and we absolutely cannot accept that. so please support our resolution, which proposes to fight the smuggling groups, a long-term approach to africa's development and to eliminate the root causes of illegal immigration.
madam president, as already underlined by certain colleagues, the loss of life in the mediterranean has been going on for many, many years. and yet, here we are today, and we still do not have an effective and functioning solidarity mechanism on migration. and it is clear that for some member states the migration problems of the southern states, on the periphery of our continent, are not a cause for concern. this should not stop, however, the work carried out towards ensuring a reliable and permanent approach to search and rescue that should replace the ad hoc solutions that have been used until recently. given this scenario, the joint declaration between four member states only – germany, france, italy and malta, following the ministerial meeting in malta – is a first step towards setting up a predictable solidarity mechanism. but these are four member states only. the council should take a leading role in putting forward a fair distribution mechanism for those people who have been rescued at sea: an approach that should give paramount importance to the principle of non-refoulement but making sure that existing search-and-rescue rules continue to be respected by all rather than exploited. no one should pretend to operate in a vacuum. ultimately, a common eu response involving all member states should be the preferred option. but in the absence of that, we can’t sit around doing nothing.
madam president, tomorrow parliament will once again send a clear message that we need a rescue and salvage operation in the mediterranean; we cannot go on like this. but we have asked for it so many times that it is getting a little tired of the fact that there is no reaction from the institutions. i have some very specific requests. first, to the european commission. we have asked you many times to make recommendations to the member states on the decriminalisation of humanitarian aid. it's in their capacity and they can do it. and we ask the council, of course, to ask the various member states to please respect their obligations in the matter of rescue in the mediterranean, not passively, but by putting in place concrete measures for development and for search and rescue of people. and, of course, we're missing the receiving leg. we have dublin blocked, but we have the first good news, which is this summit in malta of four countries which, with enhanced cooperation, want to start hosting. i would like to ask you to make an effort to extend this enhanced cooperation to many more countries and to ensure that we really have a genuine solidarity mechanism for the reception of refugees.
mr president, according to the international organisation for migration, the flow of migrants has fallen by 32% compared with last year. the number of deaths in the mediterranean has fallen by 42%. do you know why? this is the result of the policy pursued by salvini. why does the european parliament call for an increase in search and rescue capacity in the mediterranean and for relaxation of the rules? the only explanation for this is that the eu is once again aiming to boost immigration with the help of ngos. the mass immigration of recent years has had disastrous consequences for the major cities of europe. the globalists are choosing a solution that does not benefit europe. let us now finally work on a structural solution: we must close our borders and shelter the region.
madam president, the european council was supposed to keep its promise to north macedonia and albania and thereby strengthen stability and peace in the balkan region. instead, it delivered a hard blow to the people in the western balkans. the decision to start accession talks should be based on objective criteria, and the commission is clear that the countries meet them. france, denmark and the netherlands, however, have acted unreliably by changing the rules in the middle of the game. as a result, arbitrary political considerations now affect the people in north macedonian and albania, who have pushed so hard for major reforms. the decision is short-sighted, as it threatens stability and democracy in the whole region. the message that the council – or should i say, macron – sends is that it does not want them to meet the criteria, irrespective of their efforts. but let us keep encouraging them and remind them that the eu institutions and most member states are reaching out for the accession process. the council should show that as well by reviewing the rejection as soon as possible.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the humanitarian situation at the bosnian-croatian border is beyond imagination and human dignity. in the overcrowded vucjak camp, people face a lack of water, electricity, toilets and adequate food, but they are not allowed to go elsewhere in bosnia, and let me remind you that one out of five is a child and winter is yet to come. their problem is the result of the vigorous and violent systematic pushbacks at the border with croatia. as the croatian government denies migrants their right to access to an asylum procedure, they get stuck on bosnian territory. i thank the commissioner for his comments on the pushbacks, but if we take our european rules and values seriously, he should do more to force croatia to comply with our asylum standards instead of promoting their accession to schengen. what is the finnish presidency’s view on these pushback allegations and their relation to schengen? at the same time, migrants in bosnia need our immediate support. it is good that we reject the vucjak camp, but we must also give immediate support to organise professional and decent reception conditions and a solid asylum system. what can the commissioner and the finnish presidency do to organise resettlement for the most vulnerable ones, among them, two european member states?
madam president, winter is coming and a lot of colleagues mentioned already that this is the fourth winter since the eu’s turkey statement and we still have the same debates in this parliament, but also in the parliaments of the member states, about the deplorable circumstances for migrants on the greek islands. the same debates say that the greek asylum procedures are too slow and too lengthy. operational and financial support from the eu side is not a problem. we are not naive. don’t we all know why? the question is, do we still accept it? what can we also expect from the new greek government? new legislation is a good start, for sure, but it’s also about action. how difficult is it, proper shelters for migrants, how difficult? if greek asylum procedures functioned properly, returns under the eu’s turkey statement could take place. that puts less pressure on the situation of the islands, since it would reduce new and irregular arrivals instead of an increase as now. what more can the eu do to have adequate and swift proceedings in greece?
the situation on the greek islands is explosive. 30,000 people are now trapped in the overcrowded camps. the circumstances make all asylum seekers vulnerable and traumatized, but children are particularly hard hit. in fact, some 650 unaccompanied minors are now without any help, without any shelter outside moria and have to find their own way out. they do not understand the procedures and are exposed to all the dangers of the overcrowded camps. my direct request to the commissioner is: i would ask you to ensure that these unaccompanied minors are properly cared for immediately! meanwhile, the other member states still seem to be looking the other way and shifting responsibility. what is really needed is not a package that further restricts rights, but more european solidarity, starting with the relocation of asylum seekers and much faster family reunification procedures. is the finnish presidency prepared to take action to this end and to put this on the agenda of the next jha council? the european court of auditors also pointed out yesterday that there is a permanent shortage of experts from other member states on the greek islands. is the commission prepared to organise legal aid and medical care more directly?
mr president, today we make a promise and we send a signal. a promise, first to ourselves, and a signal to the rest of the world: europe will take responsibility and show leadership for a better climate. solidarity will be at the heart of all our future climate policy. first, solidarity between rich and poor. there are more than 50 million europeans who have difficulty paying their energy bills. this can and should be different. that is why we must share the costs and benefits of this transition fairly. we can't leave anyone behind. secondly, solidarity between the various sectors of our economy. we have an opportunity now to green our economy, to reform our economy. doing nothing is not an option. we need to create jobs that are ready for our future. and finally, solidarity with other places in this world. europe cannot solve the climate problem alone. we must look beyond our borders for ideas, actions and solutions. the european parliament's resolution is a signal that: europe is ready to take responsibility and show leadership. that's why we have to declare a state of emergency on thursday, because it's essential that we all stay below 2 degrees. we have to stop subsidizing fossil fuels. we want a fair price for carbon for air and shipping. there's going to be an investment fund to reform our economy and make the transition affordable for everyone. i am proud of this resolution. it is time for greater ambition, more socially just plans and more political leadership. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution on thursday and i ask you to do the same. (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, it is very important that the money we have together is invested in a good way. and it's not appropriate, especially now with the climate crisis, to continue to subsidize fossil fuels. we think you should invest that money in a different way. one of the ideas we have about this - an idea that also brought frans timmermans here - is to invest in a new hydrogen economy that will not only provide us with sustainable energy, but will also give us as europe an economy that is future-proof. as to the second point: and it's precisely when it comes to affordability that we want everyone to be able to participate in that transition. it is very important to help people who cannot pay their energy bills now to make their homes more sustainable. you create a win-win situation for the ecology, for the people, for the wallet.
president, commissioner, the poultrymeat deal with ukraine is provoking very mixed feelings. the agreement does indeed close the gap, but that would require a very generous concession of 50 000 tonnes of poultrymeat. the poultry sector deserves better treatment from our point of view, especially since it is already faced with increasingly cheap imports, with great concerns about compliance with our standards. why was there no clause in the treaty to prevent circumvention of the quota? is there an emergency clause in the agreement or is the risk of a new escape route just too great? by the way, what is the state of animal welfare in ukraine? and when will ukraine meet our european requirements? i would like to see more clarity on this, because at the end of the day it is a matter of a level playing field for our farmers.
blue-card answer. – the next prime minister, jeremy corbyn, has said that, as prime minister, he felt he should be neutral in the referendum to apply whatever the outcome the british people decide. but the labour party will be taking a position at a special conference and i am convinced that, faced with the prospect of remaining or leaving – even leaving with a less damaging deal than boris johnson’s deal, which is what we will secure in negotiations with our european friends and partners – that we, like the british public, will choose to remain in the european union. that’s the best solution for britain. that’s the best solution for the british public.
madam president, this session marks the end of the juncker—tusk era and the start of a new von der leyen—michel era. therefore it’s striking that the national governments are still singing the same tune as they have done for decades. i note that the seven—yearly bar brawl over the mff has very little to do with vision for the future and, at this time of the year, it rather reminds me of scrooge and the ghosts of christmases past. now the frugal four – not to be confused with the fab four – the frugal four, that’s austria, denmark, the netherlands and sweden, seem to have embraced one percent as a kind of new religion. it is driven by ideology and obsession with a small budget and not by a vision for the future because how is europe ever going to achieve its ambitions on a budget of one percent? do we really want to compete with the chinese digital tiger with a one—percent budget, and do we really think that we can be the climate champion of the world with pennies and dimes? or do we seriously think that we can be a geopolitical force on a shoestring? no, it’s not about spending less, it’s about spending better. the frugal four do mention the rule-of-law conditionality for receiving funds, which is a good thing, but i would also like to hear the same frugal four then explain why they say nothing when they know that authoritarian leaders, like viktor orbán for example, have used eu funds to enrich their oligarch friends and to get political support in return. i hope and presume that they have read the new york times and that they will dare to raise this matter at the next council meeting. it is very clear that the european union needs a serious budget and a system of own resources instead of this perverse, undemocratic and wasteful system. in may, over 200 million europeans voted for the european parliament. that was the highest turnout in 30 years, mainly because many more young people voted and they did not vote for solutions of the past. they didn’t vote for one percent or two percent or half a percent. they voted for ambitions for the future. so give them the budget that can realise those ambitions for the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i do agree with your vision on budget, but i would also like you to make a contribution by convincing your prime minister, from your party, because he was here saying exactly the opposite of what you are saying. and, by the way, the socialist party of mr timmermans did the same during the dijsselbloem era, so what i see is a common position from your government. please, first convince your government. then our work here will be easier.
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr rangel, but i would like to eliminate one misunderstanding. the prime minister is not of my party, and my party has a very different view. but obviously we are in a coalition government. there is a position which has been voiced by mr rutte, maybe in a way that we would not fully support, but the position of my party is very clear, and that is the position that i have just expressed.
madam president, i echo ruža tomašić’s views on the mff, including cap and cohesion. foreign affairs are to be added to the council agenda. there are reasons for concern from hong kong to venezuela, including my region, eastern partnership countries, yet i focus on iran. dreadful things are happening there due to mass murders by the mullahs’ regime. our policies are too weak, too constrained, too tied up in previous decisions actually permissive to murders. i hope for a real shift in our policies; change, clear—cut statements and resolve.
madam president, commissioner, minister, this graph shows us the per capita benefit that each country derives from the single market. i do not know whether anyone will have the courage to bring it to the next european council, but they should. this graph illustrates the asymmetrical nature of integration and shows us who are the big beneficiaries of this integration. if it were about the benefits of the single currency, you might think it would be even more unbalanced. now, what is happening is that the big beneficiaries of integration, these countries that you see here at the top of the graph, now want, at the same time as they are deepening their instruments of domination, the single market and the euro, they want to benefit more from the budget as well, contributing less in proportion. they want to cut cohesion funds, undermining any redistributive function that the budget might have, and they want to take a larger share of that budget, particularly through areas such as defence. the result will be only one: more inequality, more asymmetry, the prelude to new peaks of crisis, an integration in which the benefits of some are increasingly made at the expense of others, and such a project has no future. or having, in the immediate, is a future worth fighting for.
madam president, on the council's agenda for 12 and 13 december, i should like to speak first of all about the mff. it is clear that there is only one reasonable and acceptable proposal, and even for the medium term of the european union it is not enough, which is the proposal of parliament, and as long as the finnish presidency and the members of the council continue to want a minimal budget and are based, moreover, on the commission proposal - which unfortunately the portuguese government has even accepted, or at least has shown signs of accepting at an early stage - in which countries like finland gain more funds and countries like poland, hungary or croatia lose funds, this is not cohesion anywhere in the world. and so we cannot accept the budget on the table which the council wants to force, much less the distribution which was envisaged in terms of cohesion funds to achieve convergence, in the case of the commission proposal, the juncker commission. these are two bad starting points and therefore parliament must, firstly, clearly force its overall package to be accepted and, secondly, there must also be no loss of funds for any of the states in accordance with the criteria which have already been defined in this motion for a resolution, in the resolution which parliament has adopted. it is essential to do this and it is essential that the council understands this, and only on such a basis can there be a successful negotiation, which, incidentally, must be as swift as possible, because if the negotiation is not swift and not swift there will be many citizens and many companies who will suffer the consequences. at the very least, a transitional proposal should be accepted which would ensure that there is no interruption of european aid to all the citizens and businesses who benefit from it. finally, on climate change, one thing that is very important: is that we take quick steps now but that they are steps that are not just in view of saving the planet, which is an imperative, which is an emergency, which is an emergency - i have no doubt about that - but also people, because people must be at the centre of politics, and what we see sometimes is that socialists put society before people, liberals put individuals before people, green people put the planet before people, and what we want is a policy for people, that is, for individuals in relation, for individuals in their context, for families, for businesses, for the relationship of solidarity. finally, a telegraphic word to say that i hope that the council will take decisions here on the conference on the future of europe and that it will do so in a conscious way and not as i have already seen in this franco-german non-paper, in which there are results that are already defined even before the conference bringing the peoples together takes place. we do not want pre-cooked results, we do not want pre-defined results, we want the institutions and the citizens of europe to be able to decide freely on the future of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to address you personally, madam president-in-office, because i know how enthusiastically and with what commitment you are pushing this agenda forward. i think you are doing a good job preparing this european summit very carefully. we need budgets for the next few years in the european union which are budgets for modernisation. we need households that do good work, that have a clean environment, that show that we can produce energy without destroying the planet, that make us mobile without making our cities sick and without destroying the health of our citizens, that embrace everyone and give everyone a chance to participate in the workplace and in society and to contribute - with a return - to a better society in the european union as a whole. this sustainability agenda needs to be implemented urgently. we are behind because if we do not deliver, if the european union does not deliver, if we do not take a leading role in the world, then we will also disappoint our friends in the united nations, who are counting on us in particular, because we have to be a leading actor in this great transformation process that we have to succeed in this world. frans timmermans, i know how hard you're fighting to make this new green deal a success. it will be your main task for the next few years good luck with that! you were right to mention how much investment is needed to make this happen. i believe we can help the member states to get courage by actually putting the objectives in our work plans, putting them on the sustainability agenda and making them binding in the next steps of the european semester. good for you!
madam president, at the next european council our government leaders again have an opportunity to solve a humanitarian crisis which has now been going on for almost four years. this crisis is a devastating situation in which asylum seekers find themselves on a greek island. forty-six thousand people are now staying in and around centres that are only equipped for eight thousand people. there’s a lack of medical care, lack of basic needs, lack of safety. many children, including unaccompanied minors, are left on their own, sometimes even without shelter, water or food. they depend on complete strangers to take care of them. people in need of protection have to wait years before their claim is assessed and there’s a great shortage of legal aid providers and interpreters. how can the european council justify this ongoing crisis? why is this not treated as a matter of urgency and put on the agenda of the next meeting? all this is happening in the eu 15 years after we harmonised our rules on the reception, procedures and qualification of asylum seekers. this harmonisation was based on the idea of an asylum system with shared responsibilities, yet now it seems that we are stuck in a system of shared ignorance. i remember vividly that in 2015 the european council drew conclusions at every meeting on how to deal with the influx of refugees departing from turkey at that time. the situation in greece is, in part, a result of the measures the council took at that time, such as the eu-turkey deal. what now remains four years later is silence. so is the council prepared at least to put this on the agenda and discuss evacuation, relocation, and speeding up family reunification and ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected in the eu?
president, eu leaders will discuss the 2030 climate and energy framework at the next european council. the framework is designed, inter alia, to encourage investment in green technologies. we believe that nuclear energy is the greenest technology at the moment. it is the safest, cleanest and most sustainable source of energy. however, renewable energy plays a central role in the eu's long-term strategy. for example, billions of eu subsidies are spent on polluting and deforesting biomass power plants, while generating energy from biomass emits more co2 than coal and gas currently do. i would therefore call on eu leaders to re-examine nuclear energy objectively and to allocate more money to research into truly innovative developments such as thorium power stations.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just remarks on two issues. on the mff, i hope the signal given by this parliament and the commission to the council was clear and in very simple words, i would say it’s an illusion to think that the mff should be more of the same. we want the same, but more of it, that’s not going to fly. we want the same, but less of it, is not going to fly either, so we will have to find a compromise where we do more on what needs to be done now and less on what needed to be done in the past. for that, we need to have a reasonable budget where we convince those member states who say they are frugal, that it is in their interest to pool our resources at the european level to meet these challenges and we convince those member states who still cling to outdated policies, that they should embrace the potential of moving that towards new policies especially linked to climate change. this brings me to my second point, and also triggered by some of the remarks that were made. i want to warn of a false contradiction that’s been put on the table by some here, no longer here but some who were here. and that is that there is a contradiction between being ambitious on climate policy and saving our industry. i think it’s exactly the wrong way round. the longer we take to embrace the potential of this transition, the more we will hurt our industry and the potential for jobs in the new economy. i think now that even jeremy clarkson recognises that there is a climate crisis, i think there’s no more space for any climate deniers anywhere. so we know we’re faced with an existential crisis and we know we have the collective responsibility to do something about it. i think the sooner we do this, the sooner we put the resources in creating a circular economy, in creating new jobs in the new economy, in helping people transit from the coal mine industry towards a new economy, the sooner we embrace that the sooner we will come out of this as leaders in the world and the sooner we can say to our children and grandchildren: we’ve heard you, we know what our responsibility is, we’re taking it, we’re helping you create a world that is better tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for their remarks and comments. i will convey their messages to the president of the european council. in concluding, let me outline a few things in particular. may i start with the presidency’s priority, which you mentioned several times, namely the rule of law. respect for the rule of law is the cornerstone of our union and, as such, essential for its functioning. as regards hungary in particular, we started the article 7 hearings in september. in december, in the general affairs council we will organise a second hearing. as a priority, the presidency has focused on preventive action and on making our rule of law toolbox as effective as possible. secondly, as noted in this debate, the european union needs to continue to spearhead climate action and lead by example in order to help raise global ambition. this means engaging in a long—term transition to a climate neutral economy. such a transition will bring a profound and radical change in almost every industry and the way we go about our daily lives. we know that we need to provide the right incentives for this transformation and we will have to make sure that we leave no one behind, taking into account national and regional specificities and different socioeconomic circumstances. within the mff context, this will be reflected as part of our negotiation toolbox. we will provide just transition. as mentioned by some of you, gender balance is another issue that will be addressed in our negotiations box as a very important mainstreaming element. thirdly, the leaders will provide us with guidance on the overall level of the mff. we see europe developing and we see socioeconomic gaps being reduced, meaning that are our policies are effective. but it also means that the level of support from the eu has to be adapted so a realistic budget should be reflecting this. as the presidency, we are committed to proposing an efficient and effective budget in line with our citizens’ expectations, bringing genuine european added value. thank you very much for your attention and for this valuable discussion.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.38 until the formal sitting)
i am pleased to welcome mr oleg sentsov, the ukrainian filmmaker and writer, who was released this year and who today honors us with his presence here in the european parliament to receive the 2018 sakharov prize for freedom of thought. first of all, i invite you to watch a short video about oleg sentsov. (video shown in the chamber) ladies and gentlemen, it is a real honour for the european parliament to welcome oleg sentsov, winner of the 2018 sakharov prize. released in september along with 35 others in a prisoner swap, oleg returned to ukraine after serving five years of a 20-year terrorism sentence handed down by a russian court for protesting the illegal occupation of his native crimea. last year sentsov was still in prison in siberia. his empty seat in this house - many of you will remember this - was a powerful symbol not only of his struggle for democracy, but also of the void left in society by all those who are punished for speaking the truth. a void in the daily lives of families, countries and the democratic community around the world. during the political trial against him in russia, sentsov stated: "i don't know what value your beliefs have if you're not willing to suffer or even die for them". his words struck me deeply, but they struck all who heard them. it is true that courage is not a quality of the body but of the spirit, and you, mr sentsov, have remained firm in your principles and convictions, and for that reason you have paid the price. but no one should have to pay a price for their freedom. on the other hand, too many defenders of freedom are forced to fear that they will lose their lives, that they will never see their family and friends again, because they are not willing to conform or remain silent in the face of human rights violations. journalists and artists are increasingly being targeted for expressing their political views. oleg sentsov was released, but many others, including bloggers and journalists like stanyslav aseev, are still being held hostage in eastern ukraine. let us all demand their release. we also call for the release of other sakharov prize winners or finalists who are still in prison. i remember, for example, nasrin sotoudeh, an iranian woman who won the prize in 2012, who, after a previous release, was arrested again this year and sentenced to 38 years in prison. others, such as the damas de blanco, the cuban "women in white" movement, which was awarded the prize in 2005, are still subject to intimidation by the public authorities. others, like razan zeitouneh, a syrian who won the prize in 2011, have disappeared without a trace. we have not forgotten and we do not want to forget any of them. the european union is founded on the values of democracy and human rights. when human rights are being questioned, when democracy is at risk and the foundations of the rule of law are being undermined, we need the bravest among us: human rights defenders, trade unionists, journalists, bloggers, media workers, artists and publishers, everyone who dares to give a voice to the voiceless. democracy cannot exist without a vibrant and pluralistic civil society. that is why we must do everything possible to protect it. mr. sentsov, i salute your courage, your perseverance and your determination. i am honoured to award you this prize on behalf of the european parliament. i'm happy to give you the floor now.
winner of the sakharov prize 2018. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from russian into english) mr president, good afternoon everybody. andrei sakharov, nelson mandela, václav havel. i would never have imagined that one day my name would be mentioned alongside theirs. it is a huge honour, and also a huge responsibility. thank you for this. i accept and take this prize not as a personal honour, but as a prize for all ukrainian political prisoners who have ever been in russian prisons, and a prize in honour of all ukrainian political prisoners who are still there; all our prisoners who are in donbass in the hands of the separatists; all our activists who continue fighting for our country. as an honour for all our military men and women who are fighting for our independence, and some of them have even given their lives for our independence. currently, a lot is being said and talked about: negotiations and a possible peace with russia. i don’t trust mr putin, and i call upon you not to trust him either. russia and putin will absolutely, definitely cheat you. they don’t wish for peace in donbass or ukraine. they want to see ukraine on its knees. they do not want to apply lawful european policy. they would like to rule by their own methods, by force of arms. we won’t allow this, we will fight for our freedom and we will fight to the end. you have many internal discussions and differences here in the eu, you have conflicts, you have different views on how to develop, how to reform, how to go forward. as we say in russian, ‘we wish we had your problems’. our problems are much more complex and severe: our country’s corrupt antiquated system has not been changed. we are also subject to military aggression. each week our military men and women are dying. we have a different level of problems. but given all your internal challenges, the eu is developing. i think it is a great institution and you are a good example to all of us. there is a country which is the greatest euro-optimist in the world today: it is called ukraine. for us, there is no other path for development and no other way out. for us, this is a question of survival as a nation. so every time any of you ponder how to be friendly with mr putin over our heads, please remember the thousands who have fallen in ukraine. please remember hundreds of our young men who are still languishing behind bars who might be subject to torture right now as i speak. please remember those russian tatars who could be arrested right now at this moment. their houses may be searched, families, children, may lose fathers, brothers. please remember those young men who right now, at this moment, are in their military fatigues, with this kind of sign on their sleeve in the trenches, risking their lives for our freedom – and also for your freedom. please don’t forget them. thank you. long live ukraine. (long and sustained applause)
ladies and gentlemen, tonight the earth shook again in albania, in an area between the cities of durres and tirana. initial reports indicate several dead, many injured and many displaced. on behalf of the european parliament and my staff, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims and my full solidarity with the albanian people.
it is with sadness that we have learned of the death of 13 french military personnel in a helicopter accident in mali. they were engaged in the fight against terrorism, a challenge that unites us. our thoughts are with the victims, their families and friends, and all the french people.
we have a few minutes before the vote, which was scheduled for 12.30 p.m., to give the opportunity to the absent members to join us in the plenary. we shall therefore pause for a few minutes and then resume our votes. (the sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. pending the vote)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other details on the votes: see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, our vote against the amendments to the trade preferences for poultrymeat provided for in the eu-ukraine agreement is not a condemnation of our ukrainian neighbour but a condemnation of the european commission. indeed, we cannot blame ukraine for having exploited a flaw in the wording of the agreement of more than 2 000 pages and thus defended its commercial interests, even though we were initially opposed to this agreement. here we condemn the european commission and its flagrant lack of rigor and foresight, the commission which negotiates agreements that it is not able to accept, the commission which, when it receives proof of its inability and even when it wanted to reduce imports of its poultry parts, prefers to lie down and renegotiate discreetly, finally giving ukraine the upper hand by granting it even more export quotas. this agreement is proof of the commission's inability to defend our products, our workers and our consumers and is further proof of the weakness of a declining european union.
thank you very much. i would also ask that this photo shoot be ended with banners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. i would ask you to refrain from doing so in future, especially when a colleague is speaking.
on 6 april 2016, forum for democracy in the netherlands organised a referendum on the approval of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. 61% of the voters thought that the netherlands should not approve this agreement. the reason: this treaty is not in the interest of the netherlands. it is hardly surprising that ukraine has circumvented the treaty commitments. as a result, exports of chicken meat to the eu increased from 3 700 tonnes in 2016 to as much as 55 000 tonnes in 2018. we have just been forced to vote on an amendment to the treaty: an increase of 50 000 tonnes. the poultry farmers in the netherlands and the other eu countries have been given an unfair competitor. exactly what 61% of the dutch voters feared has now happened. we call on the eu to withdraw this agreement with ukraine.
madam president, this week we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the convention of the right of the child, which ensures the right for everyone under the age of 18 to not be discriminated against for one’s sexual orientation or gender identity. however, within the eu, we see an increase in organised attempts to create an atmosphere of shame, disapproval and hate against everyone who is lgbti including, and specifically targeting, kids and youngsters. if we here in the eu state so proudly that we are united in diversity, but at the same time allow elected officials in poland to create lgbti ideology free zones and make feel kids feel unwelcome in their own community, we can’t say we are doing enough to protect our young people. being lgbt is not an ideology. being lgbti is first and foremost about love, about loving someone else of whatever gender, or being able to love the person that you truly are. but perhaps the most important thing for every lgbti person, is experiencing love and respect from your immediate surroundings. every child has tthe right to grow up in a safe space, where you can be able to love yourself and to grow up to be the beautiful and unique person that you are. we need to work harder to make the european union an lgbti friendly zone. we need to let every kid struggling with who they are know that they are loved and welcome to be who they are. today we stand together with the lgbti community in poland and in every country where lgbt people are not fully free and we won’t stop until everyone is.
mr. chairman, i want to talk to you tonight about one of my best friends. not only is he talented, funny and sometimes a little annoying, but he also happens to live with a man. like everyone else in his or her life, it took him time to get to know himself and fortunately in the netherlands that is possible. we have a lot of role models that young people can learn from that you can just be yourself. that there are cities in europe in 2019 where that is not possible is, for me, untenable. that's why i want to address from this place all those boys and girls who are finding out who they are right now. we're behind you. and we will do everything we can to make sure that you too can grow into that talented, funny and sometimes annoying person who is so valuable in so many lives. just like my best friend.
in writing. – hearing about the so-called lgbti—free zones in poland is absolutely heartbreaking. everybody should be allowed to love whomever they want, regardless of their gender. the newly elected commission should make it their absolute priority that everybody in our union is treated equally. i stand with everybody who is impacted by these free zones or other forms of hate speech.
madam president, the scotch whisky industry is one which is particularly badly affected by this trade dispute, and one which has had no part in creating it. in a game of tit-for-tat tariffs, the scotch whisky industry faces 25% import tariffs on a number of its products, and likewise, other products such as scottish shortbread are also impacted. as someone has already mentioned, the scotch whisky industry alone directly employs 11 000 people in scotland – over 7000 of whom are in rural areas. my constituents are rightly concerned that they are currently set to pay the price of a trade dispute centred on the aerospace industry. i therefore call upon the commission to consider the impact of this dispute on job creation, investment and economic growth in scotland, and to work with firmness and diplomacy to correct this damaging situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only join those who have spoken before me in saying that i find it interesting, of course, how many people in this house are suddenly in favour of world trade. this has not always been the case in the past when we have discussed trade elsewhere. once again, an issue, a judgment, is being passed on the back of agriculture, which has nothing to do with it. that's unfair, and that's unjustified. and the choice of products and regions, of member states, which are affected, has the potential to divide europe. and that is precisely the intention of the american president. i therefore hope that the commission will take a stronger stance and that negotiations will be held as soon as possible so that we can get rid of these duties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i do not think they will be effective in the end, however, if we continue to have further tariff escalations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the overcapacity of the agricultural sector. excessive trade barriers and excessive protectionism are out of place here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
president, commissioner, in october the united states decided to impose additional tariffs on a range of agricultural products because of the aid to airbus. it is not the first time that the us and the eu have been at odds over trade. the wto is also due to rule on the boeing case next year. that could be interesting, too. let it be clear that it is not in the interests of our industries to get into a trade war with the united states. i therefore call on the commission to do everything possible to find a negotiated solution. you are right to talk about de-escalation. this debate is about the dispute with the united states, but i would also like to remind the commission that we also have something like a russian boycott which has been going on for five years now. the sector is still suffering from this and i believe that attention is in danger of being drawn to it. that's what worries me. the agricultural sector is too often blamed for international trade conflicts. we cannot and must not let that happen.
madam president, thank you, commissioner malmström, for being here today to discuss this matter – a very urgent matter, as a matter of fact, because, as you know, in two weeks the wto appellate body will cease to function – a serious hit to our multilateral rules-based trade system. and although i fully agree with the united states that reforms of the wto and its appellate body are much needed, i do not see how such a change could ever occur by simply blocking the appointment of new appellate body members or by refusing to engage on concrete proposals. i therefore strongly support the continuous work of the european commission to keep this topic high on the agenda in their talks with the us, as well as the informal process now facilitated by ambassador walker. and on a personal note, i would like to thank you, commissioner, in your final debate here, for all your work over the past years to keep our trade free and fair.
madam president, the eu faces huge challenges in the coming years. some of them are threats but others are opportunities. we cannot stand still or choose not to act on these challenges. we need to renew europe. the record high turnout during the european elections, already six months ago, shows us that our citizens have placed their confidence in us – in all of us. in return, they expect us to deliver concrete results. that is why the european commission needs to start work as soon as possible so that we can start delivering on our promise for a strong european union that works for our people. the task ahead is not a small one. we need to tackle climate change, ensure a stable economy, be innovative, the digital agenda, but also protect the rule of law, gain control on migration and provide safety and security in an unstable world, where we cannot always rely on our old allies. therefore, i urge the new european commission to start and to work together to renew europe to deliver the results that we need for a prosperous new european future. madam president—elect, together with your team – and i am proud to see your work on the composition of that team – i hope we can start together to work on a renewed europe.
president. - madam high representative, mr pompeo's statement on the settlements has stirred up a lot of dust, but he was right. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it ignores the complexity of the palestinian-israeli conflict, anticipates the outcome of necessary peace talks and completely ignores the fact that israel has legitimate claims to the territories in question, both historically and legally. these are not occupied territories, but are in fact disputed territories, for which a solution can only be found through negotiations. i would therefore urge the high representative not to spend any energy in exchanging words with the united states on this matter. then we're really not getting anywhere. instead, invest in measures that matter, that can bring peace to the region. that's why i say: the european union is also calling for the immediate cessation of indirect support for terrorists and their families through the palestinian authority, following a recent decision by the netherlands. stop payments to unrwa, which has been maintaining an unhealthy refugee situation for decades. and opt for a much tougher stance against iran, which plays a very aggressive and dubious role in the region.
madam president, we are at an important moment in time. the new treaty between the eu and the acp countries will consolidate and give new impetus to our strong partnership and we are happy to learn that we are approaching the final stage of concluding a treaty. however, there are still some problem issues, and they seem to concentrate on the issue of migration and mobility, and this is why i focus on this issue. the treaty is based on the principle of equality and shared responsibility. but if you look at the eu text proposal, it applies very concrete requirements on the acp countries, such as readmission of migrants, strengthening border controls and combating irregular migration, whereas in exchange, the eu hardly offers any concrete commitment regarding legal migration. adopting this text would deprive the countries of remittances and other benefits of migration, without any clear perspective on labour migration. this does not really resonate the equality of the partnership. regarding shared responsibility, i find the only provision on refugees and international protection pretty meagre. africa hosts so many more refugees than we do. why don’t we see a stronger eu commitment to support the protection and reception of refugees through financial means or through resettlements? that would be shared responsibility, and also in line with the un global compact on refugees. the eu’s responsibility for refugees in africa will even grow if this migration cooperation leads to more refugees stuck in transit countries without any access to asylum. so, if this paragraph is still in negotiation, please make sure that the eu also delivers on migration, mobility and international protection.
there are requests for blue card questions, i remind you that we are in the circle of speakers on behalf of the political groups, during which there are no blue card questions and therefore the possibility of submitting such a request by electronic procedure has not been activated. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
president. - the reports from algeria are of great concern to us. and i am not just talking about the way the protesters are being treated, but i am also talking about the freedom of religion, which is being seriously violated: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. with this joint resolution, and in particular paragraph 4, we as a parliament are sending a strong signal to the algerian authorities that what is happening is truly unacceptable from our point of view. and above all, let us use the partnership we have with algeria in the euromed framework to address the problems of religious freedom explicitly. i am confident that the high representative will give high priority to our concerns in this area, concerning freedom of religion, in her contacts with algeria.
mr president, the assassination of daphne caruana galicia was a brutal attack on the freedom of media and the rule of law that she herself sought to protect. the fact that political figures seemingly enjoyed impunity in this case for a long time shows how dysfunctional the system of criminal justice and the rule of law in malta has become. the murder and the lack of follow-up therefore exposed the deep crisis of the rule of law in a broadened sense and thus a serious problem with article 2 of the treaty on european union. yet over the past few years, the european commission and the european council refused to take any measures against the maltese government, and even now the council remains silent. let us be very clear: the case of daphne is not just a concern for national authorities. if all persons responsible for this crime are not brought to justice and if the complicity at the highest level and systematic corruption is not fundamentally solved, our shared system of fundamental values is failing. so it’s high time for the eu to speak up and send a clear message to all journalists in europe. we will protect the much-needed checks and balances within each society, including the work of journalists and the freedom of media. we will make sure that this murder will not silence actors who want and who need to speak up. so my question to the commission is: what will be the concrete steps of the new commission towards the maltese government to ensure a due and independent process in this case? and will it make sure that, if malta fails to correct its rule-of-law weaknesses and reform its judicial and institutional system, it will intervene? and isn’t it time that member states became more vocal in addressing rule-of-law violations, not only in political dialogues but also by using the legal means they have at their disposal, such as state actions brought before the court of justice?
madam president, corruption, obfuscation, interference, lack of transparency, intimidation. all these things seem to have been in play at the highest level in malta regarding the murder of the investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, but i want to draw attention to the unacceptable behaviour of the management of the state-appointed valletta 2018 european capital of culture, who not only regularly dismantled the public memorialisation of daphne, but also censored artists invited to the festival. this included a british theatre company who were offered an open-ended residency in the programme and invited to make work responding to their experiences. when it seemed their performance would include references to daphne, they were asked to change their script. artistic censorship is totally unacceptable in our european union and questions must be asked of the commission officials regarding monitoring of the use of citizens’ money in a culture of state repression. i’d like to take this opportunity to thank pen international for their work on this issue. also the theatre artists rebecca biscuit and louise mothersole, who are now telling the story of how they were censored by the maltese authorities, winning an edinburgh fringe festival award in the process.
madam president, the murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia: how long did it take to find the murderer, to find the culprit? and that's not been proven yet. i would point out the parallel with slovakia. in slovakia, too, a journalist had to die so that people could speak out against corruption in the highest places. do you think that if prime minister fico and the minister of the interior had not left, that the real background of the murder would have been revealed in slovakia today? it wasn't! and that is why it is clear that the people of malta, that is why it is clear that we here in the european parliament are calling for the resignation of the maltese prime minister. if you want this murder to be solved with all the consequences and all the background, so that the truth comes out, the judiciary, the police and the press cannot be controlled by a government that is connected to this murder. that's why we're asking for the prime minister's resignation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, people's lives, whether they are journalists or any other profession, must be safe in the european union. i don't think there's a colleague in the house who doesn't condemn the murder of the journalist. i was there in malta on a delegation and i could see the tragedy and the grave of this journalist. but let's think, commissioner, are we doing the right thing here? i politicized a man's life around christmas. i think we need to find measures, get to the cause. if it wasn't for those situations that the journalist was investigating, would she have ended up getting killed? do we have new specific measures for all member states to eliminate money laundering, corruption, so that we no longer put journalists in a critical situation - because in all states there are journalists who are certainly threatened, some even killed, as we had here and other cases in slovakia? i believe, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner, that we cannot interfere in the decisions that national parliaments have to take. governments are not changed by the european parliament, they are changed by national parliaments. we are not making the mistake of interfering in this, but we are asking the commission, i am asking the commission, to find mechanisms at european union level, mechanisms to avoid putting journalists in a situation similar to that of daphne. i'm sorry and i offer my condolences to the family.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want first of all to thank you all for this debate and also for your support for an independent investigation after the murder of the journalist, daphne caruana galizia. justice needs to be done. the new commission is very clear on such a need. in the two first weeks in office, the president of the commission has sent a clear message to the maltese authorities. we did the same in different phone calls from vice—president věra jourová and myself to the minister of justice, owen bonnici, and i have sent a letter to the minister of justice yesterday. more than that, europol is at the disposal of the maltese authorities to take part in the investigations and we have seen some progress in the investigation due to the presence also of europol and we will continue to follow the progress in the investigations. we need to do that, not only for daphne caruana galizia, for her family, but to defend our values in the european union. i want to say that the protection of journalists, because i have heard many questions about that, is first of all, of course, a competence of the member states. but the commission must also take some initiatives to support the media pluralism and to support also independent journalists that work in all the member states. and we will continue to do that and maybe will enhance our capacities to do that. then we need to control a correct implementation of justice reforms after the country—specific recommendations adopted by the council of 9 july 2019. in my letter, i have insisted on the independence of judiciary with safeguards for judicial appointments and dismissals with a real separate prosecutor’s office. the commission will present an evaluation on the process reform and propose concrete actions. the commission has a toolbox to address rule of law concerns and we are ready to make use of it. i recall that the commission introduced infringement proceedings against malta for non—transposition of the 4th anti-money laundering directive, with success. as the situation evolves we will consider which instruments are appropriate, including a possible application of the rule of law framework if it’s needed. and, of course, about all those reforms we encourage the maltese authorities to consult the venice commission on all draft legislation. third, about the investor citizenship scheme, in the supranational risk assessment, published in july 2019, the commission highlighted that citizenship investment programmes and investor residence schemes – also known as golden passport and golden visas – entailed significant money laundering threats. the january 2019 commission report on investor citizenship and residence schemes in the european union highlights that these schemes inherently raise money laundering concerns. awarding citizenship is a prerogative of the member states, however, member states must when exerting their powers in the sphere of nationality, have due regard to european union law. european union citizenship brings together rights to all member states providing solidarity. together, member states create the conditions for enjoying eu citizenship. this common achievement should not be exploited by individual member states’ risky investor schemes. we evaluate if a legislation is needed to find against the abuse of golden passport and if we must introduce infringement proceedings. to conclude, we need to enhance the culture of the rule of law in all the member states in the european union and if we want to speak about the rule of law outside the european union, it’s necessary to deliver, to do the job at home. it’s the reason why the commission will organise and will set up a new mechanism with an annual report on the rule of law in all the member states without any discrimination. it will be the occasion of a real political debate in the council and also in the parliament. we have such a process about the budgetary situation of all the member states. it’s time to have the same political debate about our values, about the values of the european union. that doesn’t mean the abandon of all the other tools at our disposal. we will continue to introduce infringement proceedings, to organise dialogue on the rule of law, to push through the article 7 procedures. and so, of course, it’s an important moment today in this debate because we follow very closely the investigations about the murder of a journalist, but i want also to thank you for your support, because we have a lot of things to do together to protect the rule of law, to defend our values.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 18 december 2019. can i just say that as we conclude our debate on the murder of the journalist daphne caruana galizia, let us salute the courage of her family, even though their hearts are broken. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35)
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, we take a stand. we must proceed with the election of the european ombudsman. the procedure is a bit complicated, so i'm going to ask for a moment of your attention. the election will be held in accordance with rule 231 of our rules of procedure. i have received the following applications: i agree that the vote shall be by secret ballot and that, in accordance with rule 231 (6), in order to be elected, a candidate must obtain a majority of the votes cast. abstentions shall not be counted as votes cast. since this is a secret ballot, a blue alert will be displayed on your terminal, regardless of how you voted. since, according to the rules of procedure, i must ensure that at least half of the members of parliament are present before the vote is called, we shall vote to ensure that at least 374 members are present. then i'd do this attendance check right away. (the president declared the sitting closed at 1 p.m.) and so we have the presence, the numbers are enough. one more moment of your attention. information on the election by electronic voting system has been distributed. first, after the vote has been opened, the following information appears on the screen: the subject of the vote and the list of candidates. position yourself on the name of the candidate of your choice by activating the blue buttons at the bottom right of the screen and express your preference by pressing the "+" button (left button). the blue alert will light up and an asterisk will appear in front of the name of the selected candidate. to ensure the secrecy of the vote, the asterisk will disappear as soon as you move the cursor. if you wish to express your presence during the voting without voting for a candidate, press the "0" button (centre button). before the announcement of the close of voting, you have the opportunity to change your choice by standing over the candidate's name and pressing the "0" button to cancel your vote in favour. then, place yourself on another candidate's name and press the "+" button. is that clear? then let us proceed to the first round of voting. the vote is open. did everyone vote? the vote is closed. (the results are shown on the president's screen.) i now announce the results of the vote: number of voters: 692 abstentions from voting: 103 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 589 and absolute majority of votes: 295achieved (results appear on the president's screen) the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is intended to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy. 47 votes. since no candidate obtained a majority of the votes cast, a second round is called. the second round will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. the deadline for the withdrawal of applications, if there is any withdrawal of applications, is set at 8 p.m. this evening. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, i would like to make a point of order. yesterday our colleague angel dzhambazki of the ecr group made statements on the mobility package - which, politically, can be explained - in which he characterised two of our colleagues, karima delli and ismail ertug, as french members of parliament of algerian origin and german members of parliament of turkish origin respectively. i think that this kind of characterization is intolerable here: we are all meps, we all come from different backgrounds, and so there is no question of stigmatising colleagues because of their origin! we are all meps. i thank you and therefore would like you to call mr dzhambazki to order. (applause from the left)
mr president, in the same sense as mr lamberts, this is the home of all europeans. and there are certain rules here, which we cannot accept to be broken. the views expressed by a member of this parliament regarding two colleagues - 'comrade and colleague' of this parliament, karima delli and ismail ertug - are totally unacceptable. this parliament is the home of everyone, and we cannot allow racist statements in this european parliament. they are totally unacceptable. and i ask the president of parliament to take the necessary steps to prevent this from happening again.
i'll take care of your needs.
that concludes the voting.
madam president, as always, i find myself asking why this decision has to be made at eu level. i’m not in any sense unsympathetic to the plight of jordan. it has, on the one side, the continuing calamity of the syrian war and, on the other, a disruption of its oil and gas supplies from egypt. i wish that country well. i think that king abdullah is a benign force in regional politics. but surely this is the sort of decision that could be made by elected national governments, each answerable to their own taxpayers. the difference between those governments and us in this chamber is that there is no proper link here between taxation, representation and expenditure. we are spending money that we are not responsible for and, fundamentally, that weakens governmental accountability and the democratic process. we should be pushing power outwards and downwards to restore honour and purpose and meaning to the act of casting a vote.
madam president, i supported this motion for a number of reasons. i would like to follow up on mr hannan's comments, because we have been officially asked, as the european union, to provide this additional aid package. i think we have a real obligation to help jordan. it's our long-term partner, and what it's experiencing in the context of the conflict in syria, the number of refugees it hosts on its territory, that's 1.3 million people, is basically complying with the pact with the european union that we made in the last period. five hundred million euros is a lot of money, but i think this country really deserves it. i voted for it. it's an important pan-european event. i do not agree with mr hannan, who spoke just now precisely because that is what only the member states should do. it is good that we decided this as the european union.
madam president, i am pleased to give my full support to this approval of macro-financial assistance from the eu to jordan in the form of loans in three instalments. jordan has been a country heavily affected by unrest in its region in recent years. the syrian conflict in particular and the movement of a large number of people across the border into jordan has a significant financial impact on the country and its ability to provide the needed services and public infrastructure for its citizens. jordan is an important ally of the eu in the middle east region and a country that works to protect fundamental rights and freedoms. the eu’s previous macro-financial aid programmes to jordan have aided the authorities in putting important structures for the protection of human rights in place. it is therefore vitally important that we continue to support the country to ensure its stability and, indeed, to maintain its continued democratisation process, and i welcome this important approval to this end today.
madam president, i also supported this macro-financial assistance to jordan. i think there are very clear reasons why the european union should have an interest in the stability of this country. it's a stable partner of the european union in the middle east, it's a country that's really plagued by a huge influx of refugees. it is in our geopolitical interest that this country remains stable, that it does not strengthen islamist tendencies and that it remains our partner. this means that the financial loan we are making is not just a distribution of european taxpayers' money, as one of my colleagues has suggested, but there is a clear interest of europe and the european union in having a stable, basically democratic jordan as a partner, one of the few countries in the middle east that we can clearly rely on. so the support is there for geopolitical reasons.
madam president, i supported this motion because administrative cooperation in the fight against tax fraud is really necessary and necessary. of course, the devil is in the details, but the fact that e-commerce and online services are gaining momentum is clear. consumers are taking advantage of this opportunity to buy even very famous brands. this limits the retail network to some extent, but i would like to stress that it also creates an opportunity for vat fraud. it is estimated that the european union and its member states lose almost €140 billion a year, a huge sum, in vat fraud. i think that requires european action, and i supported this proposal because it is going in the right direction. a number of amendments have been tabled, and i am therefore satisfied with this report.
the president was pleased to support the report. and nowadays, more and more companies are working online. more citizens are buying and selling online. commissioner vestager said in a statement that there are two types of bodies now: bodies that are working online and bodies that will be working online soon. are they still paying their dues? i'm not going to let him. it costs €137 billion every year. i'm not going to die. who's the guy? in the morning. i'm not without a fight. and you may be afraid to end up in jail. if the commissioner vestager is unable to ensure that the bodies in question are not liable to pay vat, he will do so on behalf of his european citizens and will be able to do so under his responsibility.
writer the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, a warm greeting. madam president, the committee on budgetary control (cont) has put five questions to the commission concerning measures against the misuse of eu funds in cases of conflict of interest and corruption affecting the protection of the eu's financial interests in member states. let me start by providing some context to the questions that we have posed to the commission. in some member states, the systemic risk of semi-legal systems enabling conflicts of interest, irregularities, misuse of funds and fraud is widely present in important policy areas such as agriculture and cohesion. we have cases where politicians allegedly systematically use their power and the influence they have over the implementation of eu programmes in their countries to enrich their companies, friends, family, or themselves. conflict of interest constitutes in itself a serious threat. we see cases of single bidding in public procurement companies building up monopolies because other companies are thrown out of the competition. we are now facing problems that are beyond project level, so we need to go above this level to tackle them. we need to establish a clear definition of what constitutes a systemic risk and conflict of interest. we need the same legal definition and uniform interpretation of conflict of interest and systemic risk at european and member state level. these cases threaten to undermine citizens' trust in the eu institutions and have a negative impact on the implementation of policies. therefore, our credibility is at stake. european funds must benefit european citizens at large. audit procedures concerning conflict of interest and other cases of corruption, fraud or systemic failures must be accelerated so that punishment follows swiftly. additionally, preventive measures must be reinforced. currently, there is a lack of preventive measures that are effective and in place. if national management and control systems fail, the commission must be given the possibility to assume decision making and impose corrections immediately. the cont committee has actively monitored the situation since its fact-finding delegation of april 2014 and has been expressing its serious concern about cases of conflict of interest. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures provided for in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. we welcome the fact that the commission has carried out comprehensive audits regarding the application of eu law. we are alarmed that the auditors detected serious deficiencies in the functioning of the management and control systems and severe cases of conflict of interest. the audits carried out by the commission confirmed the parliament's position, as set out in its resolution on conflicts of interest and the protection of the eu budget in the czech republic in 2018. they welcome the fact that since 2018, no payments from the eu budget and the european structural and investment funds have been made to companies directly or indirectly owned by prime minister babiš, following the alleged conflict of interest revealed by the commission's auditors. they found that mr. babis is the beneficiary of funds received by the huge industrial conglomerate. yes, i would like to emphasize that there are still open questions about subsidies in the area of agriculture. furthermore, we cannot accept the fact that projects affected by serious, sometimes fraudulent, irregularities are simply withdrawn from eu funding. yes, the eu budget is no longer directly affected, but the core problem has not been solved. the local taxpayer has to foot the bill when contributing to the national budget. eu funds meant to help citizens should go where they are most needed and not into the pockets of oligarchs. cap money belongs to those who farm the land. in the case of land grabs, when land is taken by force, there is clearly a rule of law issue. therefore, we attach great importance to the rule of law conditionality. rule of law is the basis for shared management. all member states signed the copenhagen criteria, and they must be dedicated to the rule of law. threats to the independence of the judiciary system, arbitrary or unlawful decisions by public authorities, limited availability and effectiveness of legal remedies, and failure to implement judgment or limitations on effective investigation and prosecution should lead to the reduction or suspension of eu funding. we call on the commission to take all appropriate measures at its disposal to protect the eu budget, including the revision of current procedures to increase transparency and to be more effective. we urge the commission to recover all funds that have been paid out illegally. we insist that the commission should propose a specific mechanism to support farmers faced with land grabbing malpractices, giving them the opportunity to lodge a complaint with the commission. in the context of the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, we call on the council to take all necessary and appropriate measures to prevent conflicts of interest effectively. we call on the commission and the member states to combat all forms of conflict of interest and to evaluate the preventive measures taken by the member states to avoid such a situation. we need to clearly define the minimum standards of the rule of law. please let's start working on these serious issues.
member of the commission. – madam president, first, before i reply to the questions raised, let me underline and stress again that the commission has zero tolerance for fraud and misuse of eu funds. now about the questions, and maybe i will be a little bit longer, but in order to give a serious reply, i have to take the time. the first question was about misuse of eu funds in member states involving established schemes, as well as high-level officials/office-holders. in the case of fraud and possible links to high-level officials/office-holders, financial corrections at european level and penal action at national level have been taken in order to protect the european union budget and to ensure the rule of law. the commission on national audits also identified irregularities with some more systemic character in some member states. however, such systemic irregularities don’t systematically indicate fraud and intentional misuse through the implication of high-level officials/office-holders. second question: what measures does the commission take to protect the eu’s financial interest? the commission takes any allegation of suspicion of fraud and misuse of funds very seriously. it immediately addresses, to the european anti-fraud office, any information pointing to allegations of fraud emerging from citizens, whistle-blowers, or from audits. a series of recent commission initiatives have significantly strengthened the anti-fraud landscape – for example the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. the commission adopted a new commission anti-fraud strategy in april 2019. in 2018, financial regulation established a definition of conflict of interest applicable to funds under shared management. a further step is the proposal for protection of the union’s budget in case of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in member states. the commission is also attentively following allegations of land—grabbing. if land is taken by force, then there is a rule—of—law issue, and the judicial system of the member state should act. the commission can assist the member state, if necessary, by supporting land registry reforms. the rule—of—law proposal referred to above would provide an additional tool once adopted. let me now come to transparency as regards the ultimate beneficiaries of eu funds. i limit my remarks to the funds of the common agricultural policy. eu rules impose that it’s the member states who have to publish the beneficiaries of the cap funds annually and ex—post. the responsible commission services consider that the current publication by all member states of the data on beneficiaries of the cap fulfils the transparency requirements. the commission closely monitors the implementation of relevant transparency requirements in all member states. what is being done to prevent the artificial break-up of pig farms or enterprises into smaller ones under the same ownership just to avoid the capping threshold for direct payments? answer: eu rules contain a circumvention clause. it requires that member states don’t grant any advantage to natural or legal persons in cases where the conditions for obtaining this advantage were created artificially. this would be contrary to the objectives of the legislation. the management and control systems in the member states are audited by independent certification bodies on an annual basis and by the commission auditors on a risk basis. the auditors verify if the member states have put in place controls to detect artificially—created conditions. what about commission actions on cases that have been recently reported in the media? how to prevent a similar case in the future? in relation to the czech republic, the commission has communicated its final audit results for the european regional development fund and the european social fund to the member state. for the rural development investment measures, the commission has communicated its latest findings to the member state. a further question: what are the commission plans on the basis of article 61 of the financial regulation (2018/1046) on possible situations of conflicts of interest in the member states? the commission will follow up on information or complaints with respect to conflicts of interest in all member states. audits can also be carried out based on the commission’s own risk assessment, as foreseen in the audit strategies of the concerned services. the commission will continue to strengthen monitoring, as the rules applying to shared management have been clarified and strengthened by the new financial regulations. the commission supports member states in applying conflict-of-interest rules by preparing guidance, organising exchanges of good practice, and monitoring the national rules on conflicts of interest and their consistency with article 61 of the financial regulation.
i would like to ask the president-in-office, madam president, if i may, to begin by asking a question of this kind. can you imagine that angela merkel or sebastian kurz will decide on the future budget of the european union and will themselves own hundreds of companies that will benefit from subsidies from the budget of the european union? if not, i think we're right in this debate. it must be said that the distributor of european subsidies cannot be at the same time the major recipient. that is the main question on the table here, and it must be said that those who benefit from european funds cannot manage them. i've been on several missions and this debate should be globally not only about the czech republic but also about slovakia, romania, bulgaria or malta, where politics is really closely linked to corruption or even european subsidies. these european grants, in themselves, offer enormous opportunities, but they also make it possible for different groups to make the most of them. i ask myself: how long will we continue to understand and support these groups and these organized individuals in the european union? when are we going to stop them from getting this money?
madam president, i would like to say just one thing at the outset, please, let's respect the rules and procedures and wait with all the courts until the ongoing checks are over. i am sure that the commission is aware, and this debate shows that the european parliament is aware, of the importance and sensitivity of protecting the financial interests of our citizens. it is not just a question of how efficiently and effectively the eu funds are used, but also of ensuring that europe does not lose its meaning and credibility in the eyes of its citizens. the issue of possible conflicts of interest in politics is one that affects all member states without distinction. we're gonna be seeing it all the time. so we need to learn from the experience we have accumulated so far and make clear rules. and when else would we start than now? that is, when the rules for the drawdown of european money for the coming years are set. if we've discovered a flaw in the system, now is the best time to do something about it. for this reason too, we are anxiously awaiting the results of the questionnaire survey on the way in which the new financial regulation is being handled by the individual member states. it has been shown that there is no uniform interpretation of the treaty in the european union. but that's not how it works in modern europe. on the contrary, we need clear and concrete pan-european solutions with a common methodology and interpretation. so i'd like us to put aside the politics for once and start looking seriously at how to better set the rules for the future. rules that are simple, fair and have european added value and apply equally to all. whether they are citizens, businesses, politicians, member states or institutions. i take this situation extremely seriously and i believe this discussion goes beyond the bounds of any particular case. i still believe that the european union is and will remain a union of equal states, always determined to find solutions together.
president, commissioner, monitoring the spending of european money is a joint responsibility of the member states and the commission. we have a good system for this in the committee on agriculture and rural development, with recognised paying agencies and supervision by the european commission and olaf. so it is not for me to make judgments on individual issues. the crucial question is how we can ensure that the money goes to the hardworking farmer and not into the pockets of people who don't need it at all. i would like to point out in this connection that china and other investors are very busy buying up land in the european union. in romania, for example, there are apparently 20 000 hectares of land owned by a lebanese company. my question to the commission is therefore: are you aware of such investments, which are also made through legal entities in the european union? i think this is a very undesirable development. our land and food supply are strategically important and must be kept in our own hands. i would ask the commission to look into this matter in depth and to see whether the requirements of the common agricultural policy should not be adjusted to this, so that at least no money is leaked to investors from outside the european union.
mr president, it is an ironic picture: populists like viktor orbán and andrej babiš are the ones who are shouting the loudest about the eu's shortcomings. but it is the same orbán and babiš who use european taxpayers' money to enrich their own entourage. this abuse has to stop, and i think there are two ways we can do that. firstly, we need a modern common agricultural policy. we must not stick to an archaic system of payment per hectare, but switch to benefits based on efficiency. and if we move from quantity to quality, then cheating becomes much harder. secondly, we need a rule of law mechanism that punishes shortcomings of national authorities and puts a stop to them. the creation of such a mechanism is currently being blocked by the member states, which is a bad thing. national leaders would rather shout that the eu is expensive than sit down to negotiate fundamental agricultural reforms and new sanctions regimes. we need to change that so we can save and protect our tax dollars.
mr president, the disability strategy of the past 10 years has led to several initiatives to establish better rights for people with disabilities, but to ensure full inclusion of people with disabilities in our societies we need to continue these efforts and work harder to create an inclusive european union. we need to make it easier for people with disabilities to access the labour market, not only by creating work spaces that are accessible, but also by making the process to find a job inclusive for everyone. maybe even more important, we need to make sure that having a disability doesn’t affect your income. that is why i call upon the commission that when this initiative for a fair minimum wage comes to the table, it will cover all workers and make sure that discriminatory minimum wages for people with disabilities are prohibited in all member states. for people who are not able to enter the labour market because of their disability, we need to ensure a proper minimum income in order to turn around the high poverty rates amongst people with disabilities.
i am very disappointed, mr president, that no agreement was reached in madrid. an international climate agreement such as the one in paris is of course great, but without clear agreements on its implementation it is nothing more than empty words. however, i am glad that the eu did not set aside its ambitions during the negotiations and did not accommodate the wishes of less ambitious polluting countries such as china, brazil, the united states and australia. better no deal than a bad one. the most important question is: what's next? we must make progress before the next conference of the parties in glasgow. to do that, two things are needed. firstly, the european green deal offers a great opportunity to show the world not only how it should be done, but also how it can be done. good leadership leads to following. if the member states show the same ambition as parliament and the commission, we can actually achieve our objectives under the paris agreement and encourage the rest of the world to join in. the european green deal must be a success! secondly, we as europe must not only set a good example, but we must also tackle and force the unwilling in this world to act. we are the largest consumer power in the world and we need to make better use of our position. we must make the production of goods for europe more sustainable and we must set strict requirements for it. if you do not want to contribute to a cleaner climate and to make your industry more sustainable, you will find yourself at the border.
madam president, recent developments in the wto have shown us how valuable it is that europe has a growing network of partnerships with third countries. mr commissioner , you do not need to be a genius to see how good it is to have comprehensive trade relations with canada, japan, singapore and many others – as others are bringing down what has been built in decades. and let us now make these agreements the best they can be, based on our values and with respect for the environment. how will the commission ensure that mercosur countries will respect the paris agreement, and if they don’t, what will be the consequences? europe has been at its best when it leverages its economic power for good in the world. with further tools and more effective enforcement, as highlighted in the green deal, we can make steps in the right direction. and that is why i call upon the commission to effectively enforce the timber regulation to save the amazon, which is a crucial part of our global ecosystem and home to indigenous people, whose fundamental rights are on the line.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-mercosur free trade agreement is the largest trade agreement the european union could conclude, creating a market of 780 million people. in spite of this premise, we are here today to ask whether trade agreements, such as the one with vietnam, are compatible with our environmental, social and labour standards. in the negotiations, only specific interests are being guiltfully protected, without any real reciprocity, often sacrificing the side of human rights and favouring certain productive sectors at the expense of others, almost always agri-food and environmental. despite the assurances from the commission that strict monitoring is in place, many concerns remain, not only related to the recent scandal of spoiled meat, but also in general to the fact that the production and processing industry in the mercosur countries does not adhere to the same standards as the eu imposes on its own producers. pesticides with substances banned in the eu are used in these countries, and products such as refrigerated beef and poultry are at the top of the list of food alerts triggered in 2018 in italy. in addition, quotas have been granted for sugar, rice and, above all, citrus fruit, which are concerned about plant health problems linked to certain pests in south america. the battle against wildfires and deforestation seems to be more about political polemics with the brazilian government than a real "green" turn. and it is precisely on the side of environmental sustainability that these agreements seem to be most lacking. these treaties do nothing to strengthen or improve the environmental standards of the partner countries. if the eu really intends to be consistent with its long-standing principles of protecting the environment, the seas and the oceans, why does it not simply ask that the ban on the use of single-use plastics be made a binding condition for the countries with which we conclude these free trade agreements? why do european citizens and businesses always have to foot the bill?
president, commissioner, today there are again farmers' protests in the netherlands. i understand that very well, because farmers are stuck between a pile of rules and very small margins. moreover, they are constantly being portrayed as people who are holding on to outdated concepts, and this was also the case yesterday with your colleague, commissioner timmermans. what do you mean, out of date? europe is leading the way. the commission should do so. when i look at the green deal, i see very high ambitions, but no realism. i see very high goals, but no tools to achieve these goals. why, for example, is it taking so long to approve new, green plant protection products? and now there is the threat of extra-cheap imports from mercosur, where the standards are very different. that's not how it works with us. what i'm advocating is appropriate pride in what's been accomplished, realism and a level playing field. it's the only way we can work together on sustainability.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised that the greens have proposed today not a general debate on the compatibility of the new european new deal with the trade agreements, but a specific debate on mercosur. i would like to quote a couple of figures. firstly, europe accounts for 9% of atmospheric emissions, the four mercosur countries for 3.5%, and i believe that these emissions are largely offset by a large forest area and one of the lowest population densities on the planet. furthermore, on the sustainable development chapter, which is an essential chapter of this agreement, i believe that this chapter is the best guarantee for the protection of biodiversity, for the protection of deforestation and for the maintenance of the commitments that these governments have made with the agreement of the paris conference and it is also the best guarantee against the vicious policies of president bolsonaro to prevent him from continuing in what he has done. finally, ladies and gentlemen, there may be doubts about this treaty, we all have them, but i think the reasoning of my green colleagues is completely inconsistent.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, last week mr timmermans presented his european green deal. it includes the 'farm-to-board' strategy. already, lead batteries and various pesticides are banned in the eu. soon our farmers will have to invest billions of euros to comply with much stricter and also unnecessary rules. but the mercosur agreement will also allow us to eat food from countries where these rules do not apply. totally contradictory. the mercosur treaty is a 'car for cows' strategy that benefits a number of car-producing eu countries. but at the same time all farmers in the member states, including the netherlands, are affected by unfair competition. neither nature nor the consumer benefits. we really need to rethink this inconsistent policy.
mr president, it is almost six months since i first stood here and then we were talking about venezuela. the numbers don't lie. about 4.5 million people have left venezuela. about one and a half million of these are caught in colombia. thousands of venezuelans are on the islands of the kingdom of the netherlands in the caribbean. what happened since i last talked about this? the numbers have not improved. aruba, curaçao and bonaire are not yet able to cope adequately with this crisis. i therefore call on the commission to give greater support to the overseas countries and territories of the union. as the commission has made clear to me, the asylum, migration and integration fund can be used for this purpose, as can the development fund. i therefore ask the commission to provide the necessary support to these islands in their vulnerable situation and to help them to submit applications.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on women's rights, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). enough is enough! i can't do this anymore. it's not fair. in europe alone, almost 200 000 women are at risk of genital mutilation, a grave injustice that is often covered up. the pain is borne in solitude and that while there are already so many fellow-sufferers. making it accessible is important, but it's not enough. as the european union, we must use our resources to tackle major problems, to protect women and girls. violence against women is a big problem. i therefore call on the commission to address this terrible injustice. it is very good that you are working on a strategy, but it is high time for a strategy with teeth and also to impose sanctions against the perpetrators, to go to the extreme and to ensure that this kind of violence is reported. please also provide the necessary infrastructure. and if funding for prevention and aid workers is a problem, then the european union must step in. and if countries are lax about enforcing, then the commission must take the side of the victims. enough is enough! please make this strategy effective. i really want it to be a strategy with teeth.
mr. chairman, can you imagine? you're an eight-year-old girl. you have no idea what's waiting for you. one day you'll be called. you're being held and you're not allowed to cry. an adult is standing by with a razor blade. without forgiveness, your clitoris will be cut off. 200 million women and girls worldwide are victims of this heinous crime. they're usually mutilated before they're 15. let me be very clear: this barbaric practice can never be justified on the basis of tradition, culture or religion. i support the commission in its fight to eliminate genital mutilation. millions of girls are still at risk every year. that is why the eu must put an end to this as soon as possible.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). the christian minority in the country is being hit hard. in 2019 alone, more than 60 christians have been killed in targeted attacks. churches are closed and christians are being driven from their villages. i'm very worried. the violence is not confined to burkina faso, but is increasing throughout the sahel region. international action is therefore urgently needed. i call on the european union to include the situation of christians in the region explicitly in its common security policy and also in the new eu-africa strategy. this is to prevent the elimination of the christian presence in burkina faso and in the region.
