mr president, thank you for your twitter message and your words now when there is no longer any hope. what happened in gdańsk is a personal tragedy for a very popular, newly re-elected mayor of gdańsk, paweł adamowicz. he was my friend, a good man and a man of both patriotic and european values. this is a tragedy for his family and a deep shock for the community of gdańsk, which was gathering yesterday on the occasion of a normally very joyful and spectacular charity event in gdańsk. but this is something more. you are completely right, because here in strasbourg is the living memory of a terrorist attack – a fresh memory. too often in today’s europe acts of hatred and fanaticism replace dialogue, tolerance and friendly coexistence beyond our differences. we should reflect upon this. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! pawel adamowicz was murdered. he was a victim of hate, but he was also a victim of hate speech. we need to think about how to limit and eliminate this kind of behavior, this language from public debate. i'd like to remind you that this tragedy happened during a charity concert. paweł adamowicz was just talking about brotherhood, about solidarity, about giving ourselves to another person, and a moment later he was stabbed with a knife - because of this hatred, because of this language of hatred. i wanted to tell you that gdansk has lost a great local patriot, but we have all lost a great european too, because paweł adamowicz understood that the two are not contradictory, that we can be local patriots and that we can build a better europe together. let's remember him like that!
mr. chairman, please! the assassination of president pavel adamowicz is an example of great barbarism. this is a great tragedy for all of us. it's a great evil that arouses anger, sorrow and condemnation. we should think about how to expel evil from public space, how to condemn hatred. we should think about what we can do to make the public debate more peaceful, what we can do to make the streets of europe safer.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in taking part in this debate on the own-initiative report on the union's procedure for granting marketing authorisations for pesticides, it is worth noting that the european commission's consent to the use of glyphosate in the union, given in december 2017 for a further five years, until 2022, has caused a great deal of public discontent and has consequently led to the establishment of a special pest committee by parliament. the negative public sentiment in this case is mainly due to the august 2018 ruling of a court in the united states, which found that monsanto's glyphosate caused lymphoma in an american gardener, and awarded him nearly $300 million. the pest ad hoc committee set up by parliament in its report proposed, inter alia, greater transparency in pesticide research and the avoidance of conflicts of interest in pesticide research, as well as a ban on the use of plant protection products in public places. unfortunately, this report is not a breakthrough on the use of pesticides in agriculture.
in writing. in december 2017, the licence for the controversial herbicide containing glyphosate was renewed and allowed to be used in the eu for five years. this is a shorter period than usual (10 years), but it still worries me, especially in the context of the court's judgment delivered in san francisco on 11 august 2018. the court found that 46-year-old gardener dewayne johnson, who had used roundup for years, developed cancer of the lymphatic system from exposure to glyphosate. the court ruled that monsanto (acquired in july 2018 by the german pharmaceutical group bayer) deliberately concealed the harmfulness of the substance and must now pay nearly $290 million in compensation to a gardener who doctors say has two years left to live. the verdict points to overwhelming evidence of the harmfulness of glyphosate. germany's bayer intends to appeal the decision. if this judgment is upheld, however, it could set a precedent for a wave of similar decisions. i believe that the continued release of glyphosate is not only controversial, but above all dangerous to human health and life. this is a matter of widespread public concern and therefore new, comprehensive analyses and evaluations of this product must be carried out continuously. active substances for which it cannot be demonstrated that the strict approval criteria provided for in the legislation are met should be withdrawn from the market on a continuous basis.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this short but very concrete debate, and i would like to thank again all the members that have contributed to the discussion of this important topic, and – of course – to the rapporteur. the use of hired vehicles in the internal market should be facilitated, and there is no reason why the use of hired vehicles should be made more difficult than the use of vehicles owned by undertakings. i hope we all agree on that. i would like to also stress that this proposal really supports higher safety of drivers and higher road safety altogether, and it contributes directly to the decarbonisation of transport. it’s worth pointing out one more time why we are focusing on road transport: because it represents 70% of all the emissions that transport is contributing in europe. so we do want the focus to become big. allow me also to add two comments directly related to your comments. first, on effective controls service: the number plate of all vehicles at the disposal of transport operators will be recorded in the national electronic register of road transport undertakings, which is part of regulation (ec) no 1071/2009. the second comment is related to the comment from a respectful member who is implying the worsening of working conditions for truck drivers. let me stress, this proposal is about rules that apply to the use of vehicles hired without drivers for the carriage of goods by road. it therefore does not affect the rights and working conditions of drivers in any way. following this first reading, it should be possible to conclude the trilogue swiftly, and the romanian presidency is ready to advance on this file within the coming weeks. this would allow for a formal adoption of the directive still before the end of the mandate of parliament, and this is something we would very much appreciate. as a final remark, let me express one more time my appreciation for the great work that has been done: thank you very much for that, and allow me once again to wish everybody a very successful, very healthy and very constructive 2019.
in writing. the report on the use of driverless hire vehicles for the carriage of goods by road is an important step towards the realisation of the idea and principles of a single transport market. it will allow individual businesses to lease and operate fleets of vehicles across the eu for up to four months, allowing them greater regulatory flexibility and the ability to respond on an ongoing basis to, for example, seasonal market needs. until now, member states have been free to introduce any rules they wish to restrict such practices, which has forced companies to use their own fleets. the new legal framework will also give us more control over air quality, as the chartered fleet will have to meet high environmental standards to be allowed to operate internationally. i shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a directive as it stands.
in writing. the proposed directive aims to improve the use of rental cars, as the current system is complex and bureaucratic. the most important change i see is the abandonment of the still existing and often used possibility of limiting the use of hired vehicles for transport on own account. this solution was criticized in the european union, including in poland. so it is only right that we step away from him. in addition, the use of a vehicle hired in another eu country is to be allowed for up to four months in order to allow companies to react quickly to temporary increases in demand for their transport services, which occurs, for example, seasonally in the transport of agricultural products. in addition, this solution will allow the efficient replacement of damaged vehicles with newer vehicles. the amendments proposed are therefore in line with the expectations of carriers, including polish carriers. they will improve the efficiency of road transport, which will also be beneficial for the environment.
the question asked by raising the blue card. there are 110 drivers in the european parliament, of which two are women. do you think the european parliament discriminates against women? but doesn't it take some kind of brain-drain to understand that women are just less likely to be drivers? and perhaps the same is true of management positions? don't you take that into account?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! i'll start with the observation, because i'm a little surprised that there's a debate in this house about the importance of something like breaking down gender stereotypes. if the first women suffragists had not broken gender stereotypes 100 years ago, the president would not have chaired this debate, the commissioner would not have been the commissioner, and we - the members - would not have been speaking in this house, because there would simply have been no women here at all. so i think it's worth remembering what's happened over the last 100 years. as regards the report, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs angelica mlinar on this very good report. i have no doubt that gender mainstreaming is crucial if we are to achieve the goal of equal treatment for women and men - a goal that is enshrined in many articles of the treaties, in many european directives and regulations. if we want to achieve this, if we want to effectively encourage the national states to make efforts in this area, it is clear that all the eu institutions, with the european parliament at the forefront, should set an example, show how the implementation of the principle of equal treatment can be implemented in the practical functioning of a particular institution. the report contains a number of well-founded recommendations and assessments of actions already taken, such as increased staff and funds to combat mobbing in the european parliament, or improvements to information and guidance on equal treatment. the report calls for closer cooperation between parliamentary committees, which is justified, is the essence of what we call gender mainstreaming on gender equality, and for greater involvement of the institute for gender equality in the dissemination of information and tools to measure gender equality in national parliaments and the european parliament. (the speaker refused to listen to the question indicated by dobromir sośnierz's raising of the blue card)
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to say that this report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament has little to do with its title. if we really were to focus on gender issues, one of the main, if not the main, issue would be work-life balance - this is a problem faced by women. i'm surprised this report doesn't reflect the real problem. women want to be mothers, they want to raise children, they want to develop professionally, and so our role should be to create regulations that allow women to combine roles. women are smart, well-educated, and they don't need special forms to get jobs. the big problem is that our assistants work in parliament from 9am to 6pm, so really the biggest problem for them is this combination of mother and worker. you are surprised that there are so few men on the femm committee, i am not surprised because the committee is dominated by a populist far-left that makes equality policy, women's rights policy, ridiculous and caricatured by the left of this parliament's political scene. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. - i'm not going to the police. both the commissioner and the rapporteur have just pointed out that there is a small percentage of women in senior positions in the european parliament. my diagnosis is that because there is no possibility of combining the professional work of women and men, women are slower to build their career path. i would also like to point out that this report includes mandatory training for members and staff to prevent harassment. do you judge members and employees so poorly that you have to teach them how to prevent harassment? why are you surprised that no one comes to these trainings? the training is offensive, it is not something that people of culture do, it is criminal and should be prosecuted under the criminal laws of the member states.
madam president! gender mainstreaming in public affairs is called sexism, so the title of this report should be 'report on sexism in the european parliament' so that everyone knows what it's really about. if you're wondering where some of these negative stereotypes about women come from, it may be from writing nonsensical reports like this. it is a real shame for normal women that feminists in the european parliament are demanding that women be employed in positions just because they are women. this feminism is a disgrace to women. in paragraph 40, the rapporteur obviously wants to silence uncomfortable statements with sanctions. she supports the fact that sanctions have been imposed here for statements she doesn't like. so i wanted to say that i'm not afraid of your punishment. you can't silence the truth with punishments. you can impose these punishments on yourselves, but i or mr korwin-mikke are answerable to the electorate, not to you hypocrites, and you will not tell us what we are allowed to say in this parliament and what we are not allowed to say - neither you nor mr tajani. you should withdraw from this parliament, if you don't understand the meaning of freedom of speech, and you, mr tajani, should resign.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to protest against calling conservatives the enemies of women and girls, because that is an unwarranted abuse, and i would urge you not to use that kind of term, because that is stigmatizing and it is simply not true. i would like to ask you how you think gender-neutral language can improve opportunities for women and girls, since you are proposing gender-neutral language.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for your initiative on a motion for a european parliament resolution on assessing how the eu budget is used for public sector reform. on behalf of the european commission, i welcome this initiative. i agree with parliament’s analysis that, and i quote, ‘public administration in the member states is fundamental to the implementation of the eu budget and, when it works effectively, can help to deliver modern systems that improve prosperity and welfare in the eu’. we also fully agree on the importance of well-coordinated support, exchange of best practices and close cooperation with the member states. the commission has already recognised several suggestions in parliament’s report and is working to follow up on them. for example, by appointing the structural reform support service as policy coordinator for public administration and governance, we will be able to ensure an even higher coherence of the commission’s work in this area. the service will also work on a benchmark for administrative quality, on pooling and disseminating knowledge and good practices and on a closer dialogue with the member states in this area. the commission is managing and will manage a number of technical support activities and reform projects in the area of governance and public administration. specific support is also provided under cohesion policy to improve the administrative structures of the member states for the management of the european structural and investment funds. i believe we share a common interest with parliament and, indeed, with the member states to support the development of modern and quality administration throughout the eu.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to tell you what i'm going to do. i would like to thank the political groups in particular, but also the co-rapporteurs, for supporting my initiative to ask parliament to address the issue of freedom of religion or belief in the world with recommendations for changes to the european union's policies in this area. the situation of freedom of religion and belief in the world is very special. it's getting worse, and it's even possible to say that the 21st century is also the century of the instrumentalization of religion for political ends. in 2018, we started working on the report, and it was five years since the council adopted the guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. we also had our own contribution, as mep laima andrikienė prepared a report. today, we refer to this report as progress in this area. last year also marked two years since president juncker, in response to a european parliament resolution of february 2016, appointed a special envoy on freedom of religion or belief. this function shall be performed by ján figel. it is also the year in which we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. in its draft report, the european parliament recalls the importance of the right to freedom of religion or belief, as defined in article 18 of the declaration, as a recognised international human right, a right which is also protected by article 18 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the legal order of the european union itself should also be mentioned here. this year marks the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. article 21 is about human rights in external activities, including freedom of religion and belief. article 17 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises the status of churches and confessions and establishes an open, transparent and regular dialogue. the report is systematic, horizontal. but we are particularly concerned about two cases, and i thank you for supporting my amendments, which draw attention to the drama of asi bibi, a christian woman in pakistan, who was sentenced to death in 2010 for alleged blasphemy against islam. we expect that after the recent acquittal, the pakistani authorities will provide security for her and her loved ones. we hope this all ends well. we also condemn the imprisonment of the 2015 sakharov prize laureate raif badawi for allegedly insulting islam and call for his release as well. the main message of the report is that we are fighting for freedom of religion and belief for all. i wish it would sound good - freedom of religion and belief for all, because those who are persecuted the most can benefit the most from that freedom. hard numbers indicate that christians are the most persecuted group. some say it's more than 200 million. about 170,000 people die every year. parliament recognised this in its 2016 resolution, when it comes to the mass killings by daesh, calling it genocide. the u.s. congress has also confirmed this. this is also true of other minorities, like the yazidis. we also mention the rohingya ethnic group in myanmar. there are many such examples. in the report, we adopted a number of recommendations first of all, we welcome the achievements of the special envoy since 2016 and call on the council and the european commission to review the mandate of the special envoy and provide adequate support to move from annual to multiannual mandates and to promote the development of a network of cooperation across all union institutions and member states. we also call for more effective implementation of the european union guidelines, increased funding, more training in the union institutions for state diplomacy and also for member state diplomacy. we recommend that churches and faith-based organizations be involved in this process. we welcome the financial support from the union budget for projects dedicated to the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief, but we also point out that, outside the european instrument for democracy and human rights, these projects can be funded under conflict prevention, education and culture. we also call on the council and the commission to maintain adequate funding in the next financial perspective. we note with concern the initiatives to establish an official united nations international day to commemorate victims and survivors of religious persecution. the european union, whose founding documents place freedom of religion and belief among its core values, should join the growing number of countries supporting this initiative. i would like to stress that the high representative has also made a very positive statement on this matter.
madam president! first of all, i want to thank andrzej grzyb for his initiative. i know him, so i know that he puts his heart into supporting the cause of defending religious freedom, and i know jan figel, so i know that he is working with the best of intentions, but when we talk about this report, unfortunately it bears all the possible traces of the fact that even the best political intention undertaken in the present circumstances of the european parliament will be tainted by all the ideology that we see in this report. in many places, not a word was said about christianity. let us remember that we put in the preamble to the treaty on european union the statement that the inspiration for the union is the religious heritage of europe, but it turns out that there is no specific heritage. i could go on and on about this, but unfortunately it's not a good report.
madam president! what is happening in france today is the beginning of the end of the europe that is being created here, the beginning of the end of this utopian vision of europe. this is the effect of your disconnection from reality, because that disconnection from reality ends up sooner or later in a violent encounter with that reality. you're having an effect on your climate policy - that's where it started, with the rebellion against fuel price increases. you have the effect of your economic policy where you promise people pears on a pole. you promise to take care of everything. you try to interfere with the entire market, and then you can't deliver on those promises, and people expect it. people have come to believe that the state is all-powerful, and now they're waiting for the symptoms. they don't understand that this is how socialism fails, but this is how every socialist experiment has to end. this is what happens when you gag people, silence public debate. it explodes with double the force and that's the end of permissive politics. countries that have abolished the death penalty are doomed to destruction because they can only fire rubber bullets when their citizens' property is demolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank chancellor kurz for his pro-european and pragmatic presidency. this is an example of how a practical approach to european affairs is more beneficial than a strategy of 'ever more integration'. it's a good presidential program, security protection, practical environmental successes, protecting the market from the internet giants and other things that the chancellor has outlined in his speech. this difference of opinion, which was noted with the head of the european commission during the debate on immigration policy, also suggests that it makes more sense to take the austrian line, because a policy of solidarity towards immigrants must be a responsible and realistic policy. the european commission made a big mistake a few years ago by imposing a quota system on immigrants, and that, in fact, has contributed to a very serious decline in trust in the eu institutions and a rise in populism. so we should be careful about this. we should pursue a policy of solidarity and above all, a realistic one. i think it is worthwhile to reflect on the experience of the austrian presidency in this respect. i also want to sign up to the fight against anti-semitism, to what chancellor kurz has been talking about, and i hope that this will be a good basis for extending this sensitivity to the protection of religious freedom in the full sense of the word, and also to the protection of this group which is the most persecuted in the whole world - christians.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to remind you of the debate here in the european parliament on autonomous weapons. today we're talking about another system that's getting away with it, and getting away with it quite effectively. i have to say that looking at this report and looking at the timetable that is being put in place for this occasion, i am very concerned that we are running out of time again. fortunately, there was no major division in this report. the report has been well received and it is hoped that 2020 will be the year when the next parliament will be able to come up with legislation to protect us from the negative elements associated with, as it were, technological development.
mr. chairman, please! in recent times, we have seen a very dynamic development of digital civilization. there is no turning back from this process, and europe should therefore take this fact into account and become a leader in the implementation of new techniques and technologies. but this also requires investment, particularly in road infrastructure, including electronic connections between european roads, and involvement in appropriate regulation, for example on the liability of autonomous vehicles in situations such as road collisions. and of course, the very important thing is to take care of artificial intelligence. and proper regulation is fundamentally important, if only to eliminate social anxieties about this kind of development of our civilization.
mr. chairman, please! on 28 october last year, the chairman of the transport committee informed us that the council would not be ready in time to negotiate this report. however, this report was adopted because it was referred to parliament. i would point out, however, that the adoption of amendments nos 28 and 34 unfortunately spoils the report. fortunately, all the other amendments were rejected - the damaging ones in particular - and we have a good starting point for a debate which should end with a council decision. the pressure must be as strong as possible at the moment to ensure that the solutions are adopted in the short term, because this is crucial for an important activity, an important sector of the european economy.
mr. chairman, please! for decades we have been building a single market for a united europe. unfortunately, despite all these years, the movement of services, goods and people is still over-regulated in the european union. these regulations restrict free competition, restrict economic development, restrict the freedom of citizens, and restrict european union integration. i am therefore in favour of liberalising the right to use rental vehicles without drivers. these are solutions that will not only serve the development of transport in europe, but also economic development. it is the one that creates jobs and prosperity for our citizens. i would also like to stress that i am also against the restrictions imposed by the mobility package we are discussing recently in brussels and strasbourg.
mr. chairman, please! the report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament in paragraph 15 refers to the revised guidelines on gender neutral language in the european parliament published last july, which contain strange advice on the use of gender equality and gender equality language. curiously, the publication welcomes a similar publication published in 2008 under the same title. it should be noted that it was quickly withdrawn from circulation because its proposals were considered absurd in many countries. i also disagree with the preamble u that lgbtiq people are 'relatively underrepresented and have a weak voice'. i think it is the opposite, which is why i voted against this report.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament not because i am against equality but because of the incorrect, illegal concept of equality. even the report under ad emphasises that gender mainstreaming requires specific skills and knowledge. so it is worth remembering that a woman is different from a man in terms of her constitution and physiology and psyche. she even has a different brain and organs to conceive and deliver a baby who needs care after birth. the mother's presence has been shown to play a huge role in the emotional development of a child with the attachment needed for life. equating women with men, in my view, is also contrary to human rights, the functioning of democracy and respect for the rule of law. women have the right to be responsible mothers, to have children and to raise them, which is their calling.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report because it contains content with which i cannot agree in any way. one thing that's worth pointing out is that we should take every action we can to combat sexual harassment, and i think we can all agree on that. we are against sexual harassment, against violence. it's a shame that this report throws in all the leftist ideology associated with gender transition, with the promotion of lgbtiq, also proposes the introduction of gender-neutral language. well, we've reached the wall, i'm sure, since leftist circles want to interfere even on the level of language. this is a direction that is absolutely unacceptable. women are smart, women need regulations that allow them to combine the role of mother and the role of worker. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the budget of the european union is undoubtedly important for the public sector. i would not like this influence of the eu budget to be deliberately extended. i will say at once that it is very important that the budget responds efficiently to the changing needs and situation of the european union itself. unfortunately, that's not the case. as early as 2007, a report describing the possible effects of reforming eu countries and the eu economy pointed out that the budgetary impact was unfortunately critical to this process. today's worse. i would stress that the report itself contains very important adjectives describing the reform of public administration as disorderly, lacking in coherence, consistency and without having a proper impact on what is most important. i am drawing attention to this because at the same time the need for coordination of many projects, which is lacking, and for a more precise approach to cohesion policies within the european union is constantly emphasised.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the report's statement that freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief is a universal human right. it is also good that in paragraph 2 the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the fact that in recent years there has been a sharp increase in cases of violation of freedom of religion or belief worldwide and of persecution of believers. the example here is asia bibi, where in paragraph 13 our parliament calls on the pakistani authorities to ensure her safety. the tasks of the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the eu should include ensuring fair treatment, in particular for christians. the word "christian" is not mentioned directly in any of the reports, and christians are the most persecuted group in the world. that is why i abstained on this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, this report is based on the assumption - and i quote - that the principle of the separation of church and state is the main constitutional principle throughout the world and in europe. it's called sympathy. it's a populist thesis. it's just not true. in poland, for example, the principle is the mutual autonomy of the state and the church, the mutual independence of the clergy and the state authorities, and finally the principle of the cooperation of the state and the church for the common good and for the good of the people. the authors of this report should bear in mind that this slogan of separation has very often been a pretext for human rights violations, for persecution not only in communist countries but also in post-revolutionary france and mexico. these are things you can't forget. in law, linguistic precision is of the utmost importance, so let us react to the infiltration of an ideology that really seeks to exclude christianity from the life of europe.
mr. chairman, please! as stated, the report begins by stating that the principle of separation of church and state is the principal constitutional principle throughout the world. have you not heard that the queen of great britain is the head of the church of england, that there are protestant churches that are more or less closely tied to the state, have you not heard of the vatican, of saudi arabia? this is just plain bullshit. besides, this report is actually largely off topic. when we start listing persecuted groups, we immediately add women, girls, people because of their sexual orientation and so on. if we write a report on the persecution of women, do we add christians to it? no, why do we do it this way, but to show that for the european union the christian church, which is a thousand years old, is nothing more than a feminist organization or a philatelic society or whatever. i don't know if the psl is proud of the mp for grzyb and boasts in poland of what his mps write here?
mr. chairman, please! our group, the ecr, voted against this report because we believe it misrepresents the current tax policies of the member states as discriminatory. the first point in the report is about the fight against the male breadwinner model. then, in point six, the rapporteurs call for the elimination of all tax expenditure based on common revenues. i also share the minority view expressed on behalf of the largest group of the ppe, which criticises the report. the opinion defends european families and their right to choose their tax system. in view of all these reservations, we voted against this report.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the tax policy which seeks individual taxation and the other proposals put forward in the report are against the family, violate the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, and also violate human rights, especially women's rights to self-fulfilment and justice. for most women, having a family, having children, raising children is the highest form of self-fulfillment, which cannot be replaced by top management positions or high salaries. discriminating against women by treating them as labour is also simply unethical and against the natural role of women.
mr. chairman, please! this is another report marked by the sexist obsession that runs this detached parliament. there's a lot of talk about, "it's seen that lower capital gains and property taxes benefit men first because men are more likely to control these kinds of resources". so what? there was a discussion yesterday where it was said that there are definitely more women than men on the equality commission and it was said 'hard because men obviously don't want to be there'. well, maybe women don't want to buy real estate. so what? what, you want to force women to do this? i don't see what that means. for example, in theory, some tax applies equally to all, but affects each gender differently. that's what equality is all about. equality means the same rights, but not necessarily the same effects. if the effects vary, then apparently different sexes have different predispositions or different preferences. if the facts don't agree with your theory that the sexes are the same, then you resent the facts and try to change them by force. i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! despite my commitment to women's rights, i could not support the report on gender equality in the context of the european union's tax policy, because it is saturated with extreme leftist ideology, to the detriment of objectivity. it is false to say that the remedy to existing inequalities and discrimination is a mandatory harmonised transformation of the tax systems of the member states. i accuse the authors of this report of a lack of balance and objectivity. instead of talking about equality between women and men, you presented a vision of european women who are discriminated against en masse and on a large scale or even oppressed by male breadwinners. once again, these reports are hurting women instead of helping them to develop and to make a difference.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! i want to wish the prime minister the most effective presidency possible and encourage us to talk about her agenda first, because there is so much to do. there are budget negotiations, there's the issue of giving new forms to immigration policy, the whole range of programmatic actions of the presidency. i am very pleased with this cohesion policy theme, which is particularly close to romania for obvious reasons, and i also believe that romania will bring geopolitical sensitivity, this sensitivity to the security of our continent in the east in the face of russian expansion. i don't minimize the rule of law in my country. i'm reminded of those core values, but i urge my colleagues to stick to the logic of our actions. first of all, let us talk about the presidency, and wish romania a successful presidency, overcoming its internal problems - including those concerning the rule of law. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
mr. chairman, please! before i use my minute, i should like to point out that 20 minutes ago, after mr bullmann had spoken, i asked for a vote on the agenda to draw the attention of mr tajani, who was then chairing the sitting, to the fact that rule 11 of the rules of procedure obliges us to respect each other and to refrain from making defamatory statements. the statement by mr bullmann, which one of the countries, one of the governments of the european union, has described as fascist, is an insult to this parliament, to one of the countries of the union and to the largest parliamentary group in this parliament, to which i do not belong, and to which mr tajani and the government under attack belong. these are unacceptable things that the president should respond to immediately. secondly, there is no reason why a member who requests to be allowed to vote on a formal matter should not be allowed to do so. mr bullmann is not the only politician who has the right - and we know he has used it - to react to the statements of other colleagues. mr president, i would like to draw the attention of mr tajani to the fact that there is a double, even a triple, inadmissibility in the statement by mr bullmann, the absence of a reaction by the president and the fact that the member concerned was not allowed to speak. and now i'm going to go over my statement. no, no. i'll just go on to my speech, mr. chairman. mr. chairman, that was a formal vote.
mr. chairman, please! in the previous debate, after mr bullmann's statement, i asked for a procedural vote. the right of a member not to vote on a procedural question is not a privilege, it is a right defined by rule 184a, and while the first and third paragraphs of that rule speak explicitly of a right, the fourth and fifth paragraphs require the president to respond to alleged breaches of the rules of procedure. exceptionally, the fifth paragraph may defer for 24 hours, but shall not cancel the item in question. mr president, after the scandalous remarks of mr bullmann, who used the term 'fascist' in relation to one of the countries of the european union, you did not give me a chance to speak. as a result, mr sassoli, when i spoke about this in the normal debate, prevented me from speaking on the most important point. that is not really the way to run parliament, because the first duty of the president of parliament, and i say this as a former president of parliament, is to protect the right of every member to speak. we often talk about illiberal democracy, but this concern for democracy to function within the rule of law should start with this parliament first and foremost.
in writing. 'cohesion is a common european value' is, i believe, a very appropriate slogan for romania's first rotating presidency of the eu council. we cannot afford a two-speed europe, separate budgets within the eu. this slogan also refers to the overriding importance of cohesion policy. it is good that it was brought up during the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework. cohesion also means unity, convergence and equal treatment. i hope that we can make up for the mistakes and neglect of the past few years. the romanian presidency is also relevant in the context of russia's aggression against ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea. i am convinced that by understanding the dangers of russia's militarization of the black sea, bucharest will also see the dire consequences of the militarization of the royal circuit and the dangers of nord stream 2. i hope that, unlike the previous presidency, romania will unblock the amendment of the gas directive.
in writing. the motto of the romanian presidency and its priorities seem to be a good response to the challenges facing the eu today. the growing divisions within the union, not to mention brexit, such as attempts to divide the euro area and the rest, the division of europe into countries that may break european law, and those that, although not exceeding the deficit, must negotiate their budget or whose internal legal solutions are called into question, make us need 'cohesion as a common european value'. we believe that the first romanian presidency in history will contribute to greater unity and equality in relation to eu law, and in particular to ensuring 'coherence, convergence and equal treatment' of all member states, including in the negotiations on the new financial framework. romania, well prepared for the presidency, can help to overcome the procedures that divide the eu. we support the romanian presidency's approach to migration, which, like poland, emphasises 'helping on the ground', i.e. responding to migration through 'cooperation with countries of origin and transit' and 'dialogue between all member states to find an effective and sustainable solution'. we support romania's approach to security, in particular cooperation with nato, eu enlargement to the western balkans, the development of its own defence capabilities through cord, edf and pesco and the eastern partnership. the romanian presidency comes at a crucial time for the elections to the european parliament and the election of the new european commission.
mr president, i would like first to congratulate president draghi on the 20th anniversary of the euro and also of the european central bank just a few months ago. contrary to other speakers, i am absolutely convinced that you, president draghi, can be proud of your leadership. you have been very efficient in fending off the existential crisis that hit the euro area in 2012. thanks to your determined stance, the euro has survived and now flourishes. many of these critiques that we heard just a few minutes ago simply give a picture of some ignorance on the part of our colleagues, who unfortunately don’t understand how monetary policy works. that was on the past. now to the future. we, and especially the ecb, face three important challenges. we have to recall that a slowdown is under way in the european economy and that the next recession is probably around the corner. is the ecb prepared to face this challenge? what is important is to build room for manoeuvre in monetary policy, because at the zero/lower band interest rate level there is not so much flexibility on the monetary policy side to help the economy. finally, the question of non-performing loans in the banking sector has to be addressed very quickly.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank the rapporteur for a balanced and balanced report which includes the comments of all the political groups. i appreciate the emphasis on risk mitigation while enhancing financial stability. i am pleased that the report calls for maintaining a stable diversity of banking models and preventing the emergence of a monolithic european banking system. the commission has also identified a number of weaknesses in the banking sector, such as the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, the lack of transparency in the banking sector, the lack of transparency in the financial sector, and the lack of transparency in the banking sector. the polish delegation to the ecr group will endorse the report.
mr. chairman, mr. vice chairman of the commission! i agree that we have made very good progress in building the banking union, but i would also point out that we have been building it for almost seven years and it is still an unfinished construction. i want to highlight three elements that i believe are crucial to finally getting it to its full potential. first, we need to complete the process of refinancing the bank restructuring and liquidation fund. this is a case that's been going on for years. we have projects to transform the european stability mechanism into a support instrument for banks. we have to end this as soon as possible. my colleagues have spoken before about the fact that we still do not have a european deposit guarantee scheme this is also a necessary element. and finally, the third thing: we can't deal with the excess of bad credit, of credit that's partially lost. this is a huge burden that could make it difficult for us to get out of a crisis (mr president, i have a minute and thirty seconds) or out of another recession. i urge everyone, both the european commission and the member states, to accelerate the work on completing the banking union.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are discussing investeu today, but i would like to return for a moment to its predecessor, the juncker plan, the european fund for strategic investments, which has proved to be a great success. it has certainly contributed to the fact that the european union - and the euro area in particular - has experienced 22 quarters of uninterrupted expansion. it's certainly a success, and i'm glad we're continuing that idea in a modernized, updated form. i would also like to say that the juncker plan has contributed to the development of my country, and in particular of my region, of which i am a member of parliament from western pomerania and from the lubuski region, where it is financing, among other things, the modernisation of the chemical plant in police, as well as investments related to the improvement of navigation on the oder river. speaking of the investeu programme, i would like to stress first of all that by bringing together different financial instruments in this programme - from grants to loans and guarantees - there are 13 in total - we have a very flexible instrument that can really be used in different circumstances and for different projects. i would also like to say that i am in favour of the guarantee fund which supports this investment programme already being increased to eur 40.8 billion, as proposed by the rapporteurs. we are confident that this money will be put to good use. finally, i would like to say that i hope that the fund will take greater account of the needs of the developing economies of central and eastern europe.
madam president! the investeu programme can be an important instrument to stimulate investment in regions undergoing an energy transition. my amendments in the envi committee make it clear that investments supported by investeu include expenditure to support regions undergoing climate change, both social and infrastructure. unfortunately, in the final text of the leading committees, these objectives are no longer so clearly stated. i would therefore like to ask whether this programme will allow us to finance investments in mining regions, in regions undergoing an energy transition. this is very important. climate policy is one of the main policies of the european union. it is well known that countries with a coal-based energy mix face a high cost in terms of adapting to climate rigors. will we be able to use these funds? i'm saying this as a pole, i'm concerned about this issue.
madam president, latin america and the european union have great potential for cooperation on a range of global challenges, especially on trade. as such, we need to strengthen these relations through an extended dialogue on politics, social inclusion and economic and trade relations. as we can see, eu trade with the region has doubled in the past decade. the eu holds preferential trade agreements with 26 of the 33 countries from the community of latin american and caribbean states, including the free trade agreements with colombia and peru. these agreements provide for progressive and shared liberalisation through a comprehensive and balanced free trade area. i cannot stress enough that the strategic values of the agreement extend beyond the sphere of trade, as it provides a solid foundation for a deeper relationship with a long—term commitment to human rights, social rights, the rights of indigenous peoples and farmers, and obviously the environment. this furthers trade, attracts investment to these countries and, as a consequence, helps local businesses develop the strength in their regional markets to compete internationally. it’s also an opportunity for the eu, leading to additional growth and wealth while also representing unquestionable geopolitical benefits.
welcome to the club, ladies and gentlemen. if i may, i wanted to inform you, because i was looking on the internet before i came, that the british house of commons has rejected the divorce agreement between the european union and the united kingdom. the prime minister has therefore called for a vote of confidence in the government to be held tomorrow. this is important information that may not have reached you sitting here. that's why i let myself start with that. (end of the line)
in writing. the eu-central america association agreement was the first interregional agreement of its kind concluded by the eu, and its trade pillar has been provisionally applied for five years. trade flows between the parties have proved resilient to adverse global economic trends, but the tariff quotas agreed in the agreement are not fully used by the parties and the products exported by the central american countries are only beginning to diversify. in this context, it would be useful to identify potential sectors to be encouraged to exchange more. parliament has repeatedly encouraged the commission to strengthen the monitoring and implementation of the chapters on trade and sustainable development, including an effective enforcement mechanism for labour standards and environmental protection. i am therefore convinced that the commission's 15-point plan in this area is a step in the right direction. in view of the current political and social situation in the countries of central america, a review of the agreement is urgently needed in order to introduce an effective dispute settlement mechanism, including sanctions for serious infringements. i hope that in the near future all the provisions on the trade pillar of this agreement will be fully implemented and that austria, belgium and greece will ratify the association agreement so that the political pillar and cooperation under this agreement can be applied.
the next item is the report by maria arena, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) (com ((2018) 0380 - c8-0231/2018 - 2018/0202 (cod)) (a8-0445/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2007, is now to be strengthened and made more effective, and - importantly - to provide more effective support for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation. this will enable workers to benefit from the fund if they have lost their jobs as a result of restructuring due to, for example, automation of jobs or digitalisation, and not just due to the financial and economic crisis as it has been so far. it is proposed to reduce the support threshold to 250 redundancies. application procedures are also to be simplified and shortened. this is a good plan, but it is necessary to implement supervision and control and the principle of equality between employees of large companies and employees of small companies so that the larger companies do not abuse this mechanism. so far, 11 member states have applied for assistance from the fund. it is worth noting the amounts that some countries received. france, for example, has over 100 million euros, ireland, a small country, has 68 million euros, and denmark, greece and belgium have tens of millions of euros. poland received eur 2,5 million from this fund. i wonder why the previous polish government did not use this fund when in 2008 4,5 thousand shipbuilders lost their jobs as a result of the closure of the shipyards in szczecin and gdynia.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the european commission has taken into account the new challenges facing the european labour market and the needs of european businesses when planning the changes to the globalisation adjustment fund for 2021-2027. first of all, i would like to support the proposal that the fund should support not only mass redundancies resulting from relocation, but also the challenges of automation and digitalisation. in this respect, the globalisation fund or, as proposed by the employment committee, the transformation fund should work closely with the european social fund plus, which is also intended to finance projects to prepare workers for new challenges. experts estimate that many jobs could soon be lost as a result of automation, and the fund should therefore respond to these challenges. i would also like to give a positive assessment of the other changes proposed which are aimed at workers and companies, especially small and mediumsized enterprises. the reduction of the requirement of 500 to 250 or even to 200 redundancies, as requested by the employment committee, should be welcomed. i also support the idea of increasing the level of funding for local government activities. i would like to draw attention to the proposal by congresswoman harkin that the fund also provide support to employees who lose their jobs due to... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, once again i welcome that parliament will already adopt our proposal in first reading and i also welcome the fruitful discussions during this debate. i think this shows that parliament’s report will provide a solid foundation for the interinstitutional negotiations that will follow. as always, the commission is open to discussions in the trilogues and will play its role as an honest broker. by revising this regulation we have committed to giving the egf the necessary framework to act in today’s world of work and i am happy that parliament shares this commission’s initiatives. together we should fulfil our commitment in line with citizens’ expectations. i would like to thank parliament once more for its continued support and for the swift adoption and i am confident that under the romanian presidency we shall reach a partial, general approach – this is on the provisional agenda of the employment, social affairs, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) march meeting – so this is already an answer to one of the questions by the rapporteur.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2019.
the next item is the report by verónica lope fontagné, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund plus (com ((2018) 0382 - c8-0232/2018 - 2018/0206 ((cod)) (a8-0461/2018).
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs on the successful work they have done on this report. the european social fund, whose objectives are well known: poverty eradication, unemployment, greater mobility, social cohesion and many others. we have made amendments to this report and to this fund in the femm committee, which additionally addressed the inequalities between women and men in these problems. we have to remember that the same problems have different causes for women and men, for example, women's inactivity. the main reason for the inactivity of women is the lack of childcare, preschools and care services for the elderly, while the main reason for the inactivity of men is health problems. so if we want to fight these problems, we need to look at infrastructure and care services, a domestic worker market for women, and we need to implement health prevention programs for men. it's all in the european social fund. just one more sentence. i would like to express my satisfaction that there are increased funds for the future of non-discrimination. minority and women's rights will also be better protected as a result.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the renewed european social fund plus is a stronger social dimension for europe. it is not just the integrated development of social infrastructure, but above all an investment in human capital. for the modern worker to cope with globalization, digitalization, modern technology, to ensure smart and sustainable economic growth, high human health, improved employment opportunities, we need a modern welfare system that fits new forms of work and an aging society. however, in my opinion, the following issues have not been very clearly expressed in this modern european social opening: for example, good investment in the future of the young generation, creating better conditions for people with disabilities, explicit support for the roma minority, specific investment in ngos and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. it is also important not to restrict member states' initiatives in shared management, including the financing of transnational cooperation operations, by rigid rules, but above all to ensure consistent interpretation and transparency of the rules.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i welcomed the commission's proposal for a new regulation on the european social fund. i believe that the integration of the financial resources of several existing complementary instruments can have a positive impact on increasing the effectiveness of support. the creation of a single headline objective supported by 11 specific objectives focusing on the key labour market, education and social inclusion issues is also a good step towards transparency. i am also glad that parliament's position also calls for greater emphasis to be placed on the role of the regions, since they will not only be the beneficiaries and the institutions managing the future esf plus, but above all they have the greatest knowledge and experience. they're just the closest thing to a citizen. it is good that we have managed to reach a compromise that satisfies all political groups at the level of the employment committee. i hope that the negotiations with the council will be smooth so that the final document can be adopted without undue delay.
mr. chairman, please! the key objective of the european social fund plus is to improve the quality, effectiveness and labour market relevance of education and training programmes. actions co-financed by the fund shall enable the acquisition of competences, including digital skills, that are genuinely needed in the market. the latter in particular will be crucial in the coming years. the ongoing economic transformation and the emergence of industry 4.0 will require specific competences. the fund must be used to strengthen the skills of workers and those entering the labour market. as technological change is occurring at a very rapid pace, it is important that the fund also be dedicated to better forecasting labour market changes. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment and her very good work on the fund. i agree with the rapporteur that the fund should be supplemented by improving access to employment also for disadvantaged groups. the fund must promote not only self-employment but also employment in general. i also agree with the proposal that member states with a problem with neets should allocate more of the fund to supporting young people.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr pascal arimonta, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the specific provisions for the european territorial cooperation goal (interreg) supported by the european regional development fund and external financing instruments (com ((2018) 0374 - c8-0229/2018 - 2018/0199 (cod)) (a8-0470/2018).
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! european territorial cooperation by promoting the value of action across borders and bringing europeans together is, in my view, the quintessence of what the european union is all about. i am therefore all the more pleased that its value has been confirmed by a separate regulation on it. i also believe that the solutions proposed in it, in particular simplifications such as the possibility of using lump sums, simplified costs, better access for smaller beneficiaries or the avoidance of multiple controls, will make the eec's added value even more visible. i am also pleased that the role of border regions has been recognised and that the importance of crossborder cooperation has been appropriately reflected in the budget. i agree with the rapporteur that a higher level of co-financing than the proposed one is necessary for interreg programmes to be fully utilised. i therefore support the proposed 85% ceiling. i also share the rapporteur's concern about the change from the n+3 to the n+2 principle, which could have negative consequences in terms of the loss of funds due to the lack of adequate time to use them. i have saved five minutes of my time, mr president, for a speech by my colleague, joachim zeller, which was very good and very wise.
we agree on the quality of joachim's speech. you saved five seconds instead of five minutes, but it all adds up.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
madam president! the crisis of european democracy we have seen in this room. we hear so much about pluralism and dialogue, and every time colleagues wanted to ask a question, they heard a hard "no" - no dialogue, no conversation, etc. well, let's say we're a representative but small college, and europe looks wider. we see this crisis everywhere today. in germany, the two main political parties are alternating or co-ruling in the lowest number in 70 years. in france, the turnout in the parliamentary elections is at a record low, despite the president who is admired by all of europe except the french street. we also didn't understand the british referendum. if we really want to defend european cooperation, if we want europe to work together, it's time to change this policy, the policy that has frightened the british. immigration, the european army, the whole thing. the currency unification has been turned off, thankfully. the sooner we change that, the better chance we leave europe.
in writing. in the last two years, we've seen more twists and turns than in any good blockbuster. we should be concerned that, with a few dozen days to go before the official withdrawal date, it is not clear whether this will be a negotiated deal or a so-called hard brexit. there is no certainty even that the united kingdom will leave the community. each of these options is plausible. this should not make us happy, for there is growing uncertainty among ordinary people and businessmen. eu citizens living in the uk, and british nationals on the continent, cannot be sure what their status will be in two months' time. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are unable to plan for the next six months and many will have to close down their businesses because of this uncertainty. we don't have to look far for concrete examples of uncertainty. in the european parliament itself, british officials and assistants are not sure whether they will be able to use their unemployment benefits or pension rights after brexit and return home. this situation is unacceptable!!! from a layman's point of view, this has to stop. as the european parliament, we should make a loud and strong appeal to the house of commons to decide immediately on future action, including the possibility of another referendum.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! i want to start by thanking the prime minister for his speech and to take this opportunity to express my respect for spain, because i understand that every head of government speaking here represents not so much his political party - this debate is too partisan - but his country. so i want to congratulate spain wholeheartedly on all the efforts that it has made, on being able to celebrate the 40th anniversary of its constitution and on having preserved its integrity under previous governments. mr verhofstadt sees in your speech the expression of federalist doctrine. i am a convinced european, but i think that europe today needs realism and a more practical approach, more respect for the states, the competitiveness of the economy, a shift away from centralism. that's what i missed in your speech. i also want to say that the idea of solidarity must be understood very precisely. solidarity is the need, the necessity to come to the aid of another, especially when one is in a state of misery through no fault of his own. but solidarity is not about paying for someone else's waste. europe needs financial responsibility. this responsibility lies with the member states. and i hope that spain will be a partner in a practical sense in the discussion of a more realistic approach to european policy than the one that the prime minister presented in his speech today.
mr. chairman, please! totalitarianism is a civilization of violence, it is contempt for freedom of thought and belief. is memory all that is needed to fight totalitarianism? is it enough to remember the martyrdom of nations and the heroism of individuals? no, i'm not going. we need more, especially since modern totalitarian regimes operate under the guise of democracy. this kind of hidden totalitarianism is very dangerous because it numbs the mind. therefore, our task is to educate a generation of young people who can critically and reflectively understand the world, their own humanity, and can interact with others on the basis of tolerance and respect for the other person. it is education that is the best, most effective element in the fight against hatred, against intolerance and against totalitarianism. let us not allow the words of indira gandhi, who herself was a victim of hatred, to apply to us. she said, "history is the best teacher, but it has the worst students". we can't be them.
i welcome you all! i have one request for time management. we'll be voting on the bill at 5:00. if i find that the deadline is in jeopardy, no offense, but i will intervene radically.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its constant focus on strengthening fundamental rights in the eu. in short, i will start with the rule of law, which is crucial for the very functioning of the eu. the commission has, over the past years, been committed to upholding the rule of law in all member states with a sound rule of law policy and it closely monitors the situation in member states. the rule of law has never been so high on our european agenda as it is today. the commission has proposed a regulation on protecting the union’s budget in the event of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states. the commission also intends to present an initiative on further strengthening its rule of law framework, taking due account of the work of parliament, including the resolution on democracy, the rule of law and a fundamental rights mechanism that was adopted in 2016 and the discussion that followed. following the actions of the government of poland, we have initiated the article 7 procedure. in september last year, parliament decided to initiate the same procedure following the actions of the hungarian government. these are unprecedented steps. the commission is also using infringement proceedings to address values—related violations of eu law by member states. we also use other instruments, including audits and investigations related to the use of eu funds as well as measures through the european semester to monitor justice reforms in member states. overall, the eu is encouraging member states to improve the independence, quality and efficiency of their justice system. national judges are also eu judges. they are, together with the court of justice, the guardians and the ordinary court of the eu legal order, particularly through their role in the preliminary ruling procedure. effective justice systems are also essential in maintaining mutual trust between member states and their judicial authorities. this has been underlined by the recent case law of the court of justice, which stressed that mutual trust is founded on the premise that the national courts meet the requirements of effective judicial protection. after all, as the court of justice has recently phrased it prominently, effective judicial review is of the essence to the rule of law, one of the values upon which the european union is founded. with regard to the challenges still faced by women, i would like to stress that women’s rights were at the heart of the commission’s work in 2017 with the year of actions and a dedicated colloquium. of course, as you are right to mention, one of the main achievements is the istanbul convention and we hope that the eu too will accede to the istanbul convention soon. i will use the concluding remarks to say a few words about media freedom and civil society, because i am out of time.
thank you very much for that. i would point out that you are proposing to consider romania as a special case and romania is the ordinary presidency, so that point will be passed on. the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the romanian authorities have not complied with the request.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's report tackles the most serious challenges facing the european union: breaches of the rule of law, discrimination and hate speech. this is good, because the breaking of the separation of powers, the politicization of the courts and the prosecution, the unprecedented hype in the state media, and the lack of response from the authorities to acts of aggression and hatred against political opponents all create an atmosphere conducive to acts of terror. the victim of such an act of terror was the president of gdańsk, paweł adamowicz, a victim of the institutionalized hatred that we have been dealing with in poland for three years. today's report is therefore a call for all of free europe to re-establish the most essential values in public life: the rule of law, tolerance and respect for human dignity. only when this is fulfilled will the death of pavel adamowicz not be in vain. it is good that the report has described the rule of law and other fundamental values of the european union so well, because neither national sovereignty nor the principle of subsidiarity can justify a systematic violation of these values. it is also good that the amendment pointing to the ineffectiveness of article 7 and calling on the council to determine as soon as possible whether there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the values enshrined in the treaties in the case of poland and hungary has been retained. i would like to commend mr frank engel for having drawn up compromises which are good for our political group, and that is why i am in favour of the adoption of this report on behalf of the ppe.
say hi to your daughter. indeed, when a young mother is well, so is a young daughter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're talking about the state of fundamental rights in 2017. in the same year, in prien am chiemsee, bavaria, a young afghan christian convert, a refugee woman, was murdered in an act of anti-christian hatred by an asylum seeker. at the time, sweden had rejected the offer of asylum to another christian convert, a young iranian actress. in france that year, on the average, christian churches and cemeteries were desecrated every ten hours. in germany, it wasn't so bad, because statistically, it was every three days. in the same year, the infamous femen desecrated a nursery in st. peter's square in rome. despite all these examples and despite the calls for negotiations, and despite the fact that this report on fundamental rights contains new forms of prejudice: apophobia, transphobia, the report deliberately ignores anti-christian hatred. despite the pleas to acknowledge this grim phenomenon that accompanies our lives. to remain silent about anti-christian hatred is itself an act of anti-christian contempt, and unfortunately this report is also a form of condoning such acts.
mr. chairman, please! in fact, there are only three fundamental rights as natural rights: the right to life, liberty and property. i'd like to draw your attention to one detail, seemingly minor, but a serious one, concerning property. the property is the earnings. man has a natural right to the full, free disposal of all the fruits of his labor. this property element, which is income, is universally and brutally violated, and legislators consider this to be the state of the art. the common practice of tax confiscation of property is immoral and should be legally opposed and legally protected. there is also a pragmatic aspect to this: punishing people for useful behaviour while rewarding people for useless behaviour destroys people's prevention, responsibility, hard work and, in effect, destroys europe's productivity. the european union is not going to die, because it is a parasite consuming these goods that have been taken, but the host is going to die, all of europe is going to die. let's take the basic rights seriously!
member of the commission. – mr president, let me just shortly react to what we just heard because i strongly reject what we heard about the selective approach. i don’t know which eu you spoke about. i speak about the eu which applies equal treatment as regards the member states and we apply and recognise very strongly the principle of equality in front of the law for everybody and fundamental rights for everybody without any exceptions, so i had to react to this. let me conclude in this very topical and important debate by also stressing the important role of the fundamental rights agency. i think that the debate showed that the catalogue of the current dangerous trends and new dangerous developments is rather low and that there is a job to do in the field of protection of the fundamental rights of people in the eu. we have not spoken too much about the shrinking space of civil society. we didn’t touch too much upon freedom of expression and media freedom and pluralism, which needs to be upheld. so i think that there will be a space for future debates on these very important topics. we have not spoken about the new trend, which is hatred, and the problematic situation on the internet and in social media where the eu is doing a lot to protect people who are endangered on the internet. so thank you very much and i am looking forward to further continuation of the discussion about these very important themes.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european union is a union of values and certain principles. respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, have fundamental and direct consequences for the political, social, cultural and economic life of europe. the basic rights apply to everyone. compliance with them is key to ensuring that the eu is a place where people can flourish, enjoy the freedoms they are granted and live without experiencing any discrimination. at a time when we are confronted with extremism, radicalism and division, breaches of the rule of law, rising discrimination and hate speech, promoting, strengthening and defending justice, rights and eu values is more important than ever. it is therefore necessary to restore the most essential values of public life, such as the rule of law, tolerance and respect for human dignity. promoting democracy and fundamental rights through healthy public debate and a vibrant civil society is key. because only a free and vibrant civil society can become the main driver of integration and a healthy democratic society.
madam president! i always stress that we see how our lives have changed for the better every day, thanks to the fact that we are all in the european union. but every day we observe and discover that we could, that we must do more and more. we've done a lot of things: we've gotten rid of geo-blocking, we've gotten rid of roaming -- these are spectacular, huge successes. we have managed to do this, and we all benefit, all citizens of the european union. today we are looking at the situation of entrepreneurs in the european union and we have a report on the implementation of the directive on so-called late payments. many small businesses have a problem with untimely payments. the spectre of bankruptcy due to delays is facing many entrepreneurs who already have enough problems with complex regulations, such as tax regulations, or low liquidity. that's why we're checking to see if the law that was passed in this parliament is working properly. and what do we find? it's not working. the report rightly points out where the application of the rules could be much better. however, this is a matter for the member states, and they are responsible for the proper implementation and enforcement of eu rules. the need for greater transparency, for example in relation to payment behaviour, is important. this could encourage distressed debtors to pay their debts more quickly. both when we adopted this directive and today we have to weigh all the reasons. the objectives that the regulation pursued, such as increasing employment, protecting creditors and economic growth, are very important in this case. entrepreneurs - and i end with a final sentence, madam president - entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are the driving force behind us, and pacta sunt servanda we have to work anyway.
madam president! we are debating a matter of the utmost importance. it's important because it's about disaster versus disaster payments. as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, on the one hand, loans are the cheapest - cheapest, of course, for those who take them, but extremely costly for those who give them or from whom they are taken. but i wanted to take this opportunity to talk about something else, so i volunteered. we can have a measure of satisfaction in ourselves. we started our term in the european parliament by drawing attention to our own delays in payments, for example in programmes such as erasmus+, creative europe and europe for citizens. after four years, we can say that at least the commission has improved its efficiency in commitments and payments. this gives us a stronger voice, a stronger mandate, to speak out about these backlogs, about these commitments on the part of the economic operators.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all of the members for this debate, but i especially want to thank you for again putting the late payment issue into the spotlight. it was a good debate and i believe that voting tomorrow will also be positive for this very good report. i want to remind you that we have been dealing with this issue in the eu since 1995 and there is still a lot of work to be done, especially in the area of changing the culture, as i said. every business and every public institution must understand that this is in their own interest, that prompt payments really are in their own benefit. since some of you have asked, i also want to underline that of course eu institutions – just like each and every european institution and business and public institution in europe – have the same obligation under this directive. so let me tell you that the european commission has introduced a zero tolerance rule for any late payments in the eu institutions. so this is something new and i hope it will give good results in the future. thank you very much for this and let me say that, of course, the work on late payments is not yet finished. (applause)
in writing. – late payments remain one of the problems of the european single market. in europe, six out of ten businesses receive payments after the deadline set in a contract. while larger companies have the capabilities and financial means to cope with these difficulties, for smes and start—ups it might represent an existential constraint. delays in transaction have a negative influence on enterprises’ ability to invest, grow, plan production and pay their employees’ salaries, and it hinders their general financial health. in the worse cases, delays might lead to bankruptcy or debts. therefore, i am closely observing the implementation of the late payment directive, under which businesses must pay invoices within 60 calendar days and public authorities within 30 days. furthermore, the directive introduces automatic payment of interest for exceeding the relevant payment date. i believe that authorities and business organisations should promote a culture of prompt payments within their guidelines, sharing the best practices processes and, if necessary, legislate. settlement of missing payments cross-board should be simplified thanks to a european small claims procedure. a healthy business environment is a pre-condition for securing the competitiveness and solvency of the european economy.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president! on behalf of the law and justice delegation, i would like to pay tribute to the 60 years of the european investment bank. the eib's role in the development of private and public investment in our economic area has been particularly highlighted in recent years. i particularly welcome the eib's cooperation with national authorities to prevent tax fraud, money laundering and aggressive tax planning. these actions are fully complementary - and i would like to stress this in particular - to the actions of the government of the republic over the last three years. however, with regard to the investeu programme, i would like to stress that the eib, as the de facto sole bank, should remain the obvious and first partner responsible for the banking services of projects under this programme, and i hope that this will be the case. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
madam president! i'm not going to judge the bank's business, because i'm just not very good at it, i'm not very data-savvy. i am pleased to note that the institution is in good shape, and that is why we can be pleased. but i want to appeal for more faith in the creative industries, for faith that investing in the areas of culture, in the areas of education, is actually very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very i'm very happy that we actually have a situation where investing in the creative industries is becoming a reality. but i still feel that this fact is rather modest. thank you very much for investing in the territory of ukraine. he's a very important partner to us. it is very important to reform ukraine, including through european funds. and finally, i just have a question about the forecast.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. president hoyer! commissioner, prime minister katainen, please! first of all, the eib is a policy taker, not a policy maker, which means that any limits on climate issues are set by the owners of the bank, the member states. it's a good day. secondly, it is of course worth mentioning that the eib operates on the basis of its own policies, the last one being the climate policy established over 3 years ago, but also on the basis of mandates granted by the legislators, the fc, the juncker plan. and there are differences here, of course, because the limit is 25% for own policies and 40% for the juncker plan. one caveat i wanted to make very clear is that it is controversial to call for the eib to finance only those projects that have shown real added value for the local population, because climate issues can create obstacles to investment. and here i think it's just controversial.
madam president, commissioner, president hoyer, i have to tell you that the commissioner has not been able to find a solution to the problem. if you'll excuse me, i won't ask about the woman. we'll start with the bank. we have a very good report, a very good rapporteur, mr pirinsky, and from this we have the following picture: a healthy institution, oriented towards what is called performance, functioning in pursuit of the objectives we have set ourselves as the european union. an institution that combines this function with a very good functioning as an investment bank. this is very important to us as an investment bank. i am pleased that the european investment bank is indeed supporting economic development, growth, but also development, and i am very much hopeful that the combination of the efsi and the european investment bank, which can also attract private sources, i.e. this blended financing, can make our investment capacity in the union as a whole grow. i note a greater improvement in this geographical balance in 2017, but i ask you, mr president, not only for advice and advisory services but also perhaps for the development of the skills to use the new financial instruments, especially in those countries that are not yet so experienced in using them.
madam president! four main points. first, it seems that the efsi is looking for something to be happy about. it looks like the second leverage that was put in place for this program is not quite there, but i'll remind you that it was designed in a very optimistic way. thirdly, the geographical disparities are diminishing, which we welcome, but unfortunately very slowly. fourthly, it is important that we include space technologies in our investment plans more widely and dynamically than before. what's the point? of course, planning is important. i don't want to be mean, but i'd like to point out that the president's speech was interesting, but you're 312% over your time limit, and commissioner katainen is only 69% over his time limit. it is important for us in the european parliament to represent a high degree of precision and a high degree of discipline.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i agree with my colleague for many years, mrs alay sender, that europe must be protected from those who want to destroy it. just one question: who wants to destroy europe? are they those who are causing a wave of euroscepticism in the european union countries, or are they those who are interfering in the internal affairs of the member states and causing the revolt of the people to grow? sometimes on the streets, as we see in france, and sometimes at the ballot box, as we have seen in many european countries, from italy to austria, the czech republic, poland, hungary and other countries. i think mr. sarvamaa was right about this pandora's box. it's just that we might not be opening up this pandora's box by proposing regulations that could be interpreted very differently. i grant professor oettinger's homeland the right to elect a politician as vice-president of the constitutional court in karlsruhe. it's your business if you do, (word incomprehensible) to be the head of the constitutional court. but since we don't want to interfere in your affairs, i ask you to also respect the countries that were attacked here today, hungary for example. they have a democracy established by ballot paper and we should respect that. it is a controversial proposal, however.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this project of the european commission is the final step towards the complete takeover of the countries of the union. from today, commission officials will be able to withdraw any funding from any country if it shows any disobedience. it is enough that the commission officials themselves consider that we love too little homosexuals, immigrants, women's equality or that our court has issued a ruling that is not in line with the commission's opinion. but the states still have to pay their contribution to the union, part of the taxes and the levy associated with the carbon dioxide fees, which are expected to increase in the coming years to the extent that they will destroy poland's energy and economy. the countries of the union become provinces, acting on the orders of the european commission. that's why we founded the polexit party in poland, to get out of this structure that is hostile to us today. we still want a european union, but one that is the kind of one that schuman had in mind - a community of nations, where people can move freely, where goods, services, ideas can move freely, and that's it. but if the union turns into an occupier and our country into an exploited colony, then we must part. i appeal to the citizens of all the countries of the european union: register the same parties in your countries and join forces to restore the union as it should be, or break it up by leaving it and creating a true union again.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would point out that although the rapporteurs are trying hard to propose clear criteria for identifying generalised deficiencies in the rule of law in the member states, unfortunately the margin of appreciation is huge, which creates the risk of brussels punishing governments it does not like. this serious doubt is also confirmed by the eto opinion of august 2018, which concluded that the regulation leaves the commission a very wide margin of discretion in this procedure. it should be recalled that the current rules provide for the possibility of blocking funds from the union budget for failure to comply with public financial discipline, and although france, for example, has not complied with the 3% of gdp criterion for several consecutive years, no restrictions have been imposed by the commission on that country. asked about this wonderingly mild attitude, commission president juncker said with disarming candor: 'because this is france...'. in this situation, it would be irresponsible to entrust the commission with another instrument to punish member states on the basis of criteria which are largely discretionary in nature and therefore the polish delegation to the ecr group will vote against this report.
mr president, one of this parliament’s main priorities in this mandate, which is now coming to an end, has been the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. but what we have noticed during the work of numerous committees – special committees and inquiry committees – is that the cooperation between the national tax services, national tax authorities has not been up to the standard and up to the requirements to make this fight really effective. this is why i welcome this fiscal programme and fiscal report and i would like to congratulate sven giegold, who is unfortunately not with us, but also ms scott cato for this important contribution, and i want to say that, without having a technical programme that supports national authorities in exchanging information, sharing good practices and implementing efficient it technologies, the fight against tax abuses would not be successful. that’s why i very much support this programme and i am also in favour of increasing the financing of this programme to eur 300 million. i think this is a bare minimum in order to make this programme effective. remember what kind of benefits we can still get out of this. billions of euro are being lost due to tax evasion. so this is really not a big price to get this money back to member states’ coffers. this is certainly a programme that deserves support and i will be in favour in our political group of supporting this programme.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the parliament's proposal for a programme on rights and values has raised three times as much: over eur 2 billion. the 'eu values' pillar was separated from the €850 million for local and regional organisations. the procedures for the availability of funds have been simplified, without red tape, with the possibility of supporting the daily activities of the organisation, while ensuring the transparency of the accounts. the creation of contact points in countries has been described as being based on the principle of impartiality. this means that governments that are reluctant to support civil society organisations will not be able to influence the allocation of grants, which are already directly funded by the eu budget. we have managed to create a reserve of 5% of the annual plan to provide additional support to ngos where democracy and the rule of law are violated, so that they can also engage in democratic dialogue with those who see the problems differently. a concrete solution was found to develop european values: democracy as a process of citizen participation in decision-making, the rule of law as a foundation of the state order, non-discrimination as a basis of social order. it's a way to strengthen civil society. a strong independent civil society is the only answer to the threat of state appropriation of society, which is gradually moving towards authoritarianism
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european values - said mr boni - are gender, socio-cultural (whatever that means), sexual orientation, combating xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance. only in all this, for example, the silence on anti-christian hatred, of which i gave only one example in 2017 today in the debate on the annual report on the observance of fundamental rights. amendment 20, paragraph 11 of this draft says "i want to track hatred of muslims", but why does it say nothing about hatred of christianity, contempt for the religious heritage of europe, and by the way, the treaty value of the european union. we have very serious concerns that this programme is a powerful instrument for the dream of turning the european union into a powerful, controlled democracy. the illiberal democracy that viktor orban was talking about. we hear a quote from him all the time. it's not just a postulate, it's a statement of what we're talking about here.
mr. chairman, please! you have inscribed contradictory values in this directive: freedom and equality cannot be reconciled in one document, because freedom is the opposite of equality. freedom, because of the natural differences between people in ability, in work and in attitudes, in values, is what creates inequality. equality can only be achieved in a concentration camp, so you decide: do you want equality or do you want equal rights? those are two completely different things. you want freedom, freedom of speech? you voted just yesterday to extend sanctions for unlawful speech in this parliament, so decide again: do you want freedom of speech or just freedom of your own speech, freedom of your own beliefs? you want democracy? you're turning down another blue card. more and more people are trying to eliminate the only element of debate that we have here, which is the ability to ask questions, and not accept my blue cards in the framework of this very democracy that you understand.
mr. chairman, please! a few years ago, no one would have thought that the fundamental values of the european union needed to be protected and promoted within the union. but today, when in successive countries predatory populism is destroying the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the media, programs like this are necessary. the commission's proposal was not ambitious enough. it did not take into account the new challenges to european values. the libe committee has therefore rightly decided to carry out a thorough review of the programme. even a three-fold increase in the budget is not an excessive price to pay for such a purpose. the proposed rights and values programme will be a good complement to the instruments supporting the rule of law. unlike article 7, which calls for a regression of democracy, the rights and values programme acts in advance and preventively to prevent democracy from falling into such regressions. the rights and values programme is not a temporary measure. it's a systemic solution that strengthens society, which is, after all, the most secure foundation of democracy. for example, if it were not for the determination of civil society in poland, the process of turning away from democracy would have been much more advanced. ultimately, the programme should lead to a better understanding of the european community and our common values.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i just want to make sure we're on the same page. do you understand the difference between equality and equal treatment? equality is the same rights, and equality is the same material equality, which means the same effects. equal rights are the opposite of equality, because if one earns more and the other earns less, then equality can only be achieved by taking from one and giving to the other, and that is already contrary to freedom and to all traditional european values.
mr. chairman, please! the protests in sudan have been going on for nearly a month and are becoming more bloody and tense. that is why we cannot stand by and watch the bloodshed and human rights violations. the vast majority of sudanese live in extreme poverty, living on less than a dollar a day, so it's understandable that rising prices and food shortages have brought sudanese into the streets. it is also understandable that the sudanese do not want to agree to changes to the constitution that would allow president bashir, who is accused by the international criminal court of crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide, to remain in power after the end of his current term. i therefore believe that it is the duty of the european union to demand that the sudanese authorities cease the use of force against peaceful demonstrators, release human rights defenders, journalists and opposition figures who have been unjustly detained, and cease the persecution of christians and other religious groups. there is also a great deal of concern about the restrictions on freedom of expression, in particular the restrictions on internet access and press censorship. i therefore support the eu's ban on the export to sudan of any equipment that could be used for this purpose.
member of the commission. – mr president, the situation of human rights in sudan is a continuous worry for the european union. our main areas of concern include freedom of expression, assembly and association, as well as the shrinking space for civil society. we have witnessed these fundamental rights being undermined in recent weeks by the response of the government of sudan to the widespread protests sparked across the country last december because of the rising cost of living and shortages. the sudanese security forces have responded by using force, at times live ammunition, tear gas, intimidation and arbitrary arrests. reportedly, as you mentioned, more than 40 people have lost their lives and more than 800 people remain detained. several media outlets, including newspapers, have been seized. social media and the internet have been partially cut to suppress news and prevent coordination among protesters. the european union has been alarmed by reports of the use of tear gas against medical personnel and patients in hospital. as emphasised in the most recent eu statements on the ongoing protests, we expect the sudanese government to release all journalists, members of the opposition, human rights defenders and other protesters arbitrarily detained. we also expect the government to conduct a thorough investigation into these recent deaths and abuses. it is vital that those responsible are held accountable for their actions. furthermore, all sides should exercise restraint and abstain from any further violence in order to de—escalate the situation. the european union calls upon the government of sudan to allow the sudanese people to exercise their constitutional right to express their views without fear of reprisal. we also call on the government to implement much needed political and economic reforms to address the grievances expressed by the population about the challenges the country is facing. i would like to assure you that the eu will continue to stand for human rights and fundamental freedoms in sudan, as well as to support civil society work and human right defenders by different means at our disposal. as you know, our relations with sudan are affected by the international criminal court (icc) arrest warrant against president bashir and subsequent decisions by sudan not to ratify the revised cotonou agreement. that means that sudan is not eligible for programme funds from the european development fund. however, as you know, the country is in a very dire economic and humanitarian situation. widespread conflict and insecurity transcend borders and negatively impact the wider region. with that in mind, two years ago we made available a special measure for sudan worth eur 1 million for the benefit of the population. it does not mean that we are endorsing the political leadership. this money is channelled through the eu emergency trust fund for africa and it aims to improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups. we will continue to raise concerns in our engagement with the sudanese authorities at all levels. we will also show our continued support through the use of the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) and this has already provided funds, for instance, to several projects on press freedom, as well as civic and human rights and education in sudan. thank you very much for this debate.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. we are witnessing a huge crisis taking place in sudan. we cannot stand idly by while live ammunition and tear gas are used to suppress the growing protests of citizens. churches are being destroyed, christians are being brutally murdered. massive numbers of women and children are starving, and the country is heading for one of the worst humanitarian crises in recent decades. in the light of the many unrest on the african continent, we must counter the escalation of this crisis in a measurable way, supporting democratic change in the country from an authoritarian regime so that the citizens of sudan are not left to their own devices. let us use every possible means of persuasion to influence the betterment of the sudanese.
madam president! on tuesday, mrs bilbao barandica made an inappropriate statement here in this chamber. she said that the six speakers on the euro were men. i just wanted to warn you not to label people based on their looks. maybe they feel like women and now they feel sorry for you. please stand up and apologize to these people and refrain from such chauvinistic remarks in the future. don't tell people who they're supposed to be.
madam president! to explain why i voted against this report, i will read just one sentence (remember that this is a report on trade, the central american trade agreement) recalls the commitment of the european union and other signatories to mainstream gender equality in trade policy; calls on the parties to accept the gender dimension in the agreement and to promote and support inclusion in the future review of the special chapter on gender... i even have a title for this chapter for you, let's call it "handel is a woman", just as copernicus was a woman, galileo was a woman, and newton was a woman.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you: these standards you refer to are the same arguments that western european countries use against eastern european countries when, for example, they want to introduce this mobility package, to prevent competition, as they call it, 'social dumping'. do you not think that this is a hypocritical claim? do not do unto others what you would not do to yourself.
mr. chairman, please! the fact that we're talking about rice is already absurd. why would you do that? how about we talk about money in february and pasta in march? why are we focusing on individual products? why should rice be subject to different rules than other products? there's no reason for that to be the case. you say it's our duty to protect the producers. no, you can't! our duty is to protect the consumer first. that's more consumers, consumers are in all 28 countries, not just in seven countries. and it's the consumers who will have to pay more for rice, just because someone insisted on growing rice in europe more expensive than in asia. if someone produces rice cheaper and i want to buy from him, that's my business, between me and him. and the rice producer has no right to stand between us and say that he is entitled to something because he wants to grow rice here. if he doesn't make money, he can grow something else. what you're doing is, as usual... you're good at the expense of others, at the expense of consumers. if the producers think they can do this, then let them take the fork and let them drive the producers out of the country, because it's not morally different from what you're proposing here. what are poor countries supposed to trade? and these socialists here, so sensitive, you want to starve cambodia so that we... (the president cut the speaker off)
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on combating hatred and violence against democratically elected officials (2019/2534 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, here in the heart of european democracy, we are talking about how to protect our democracy from hate speech that destroys the community, breeds violence, and ultimately, criminal regimes. we just commemorated the victims of the holocaust. this debate is primarily - not only, but primarily - a reaction to the assassination of the president of gdańsk, pavel adamowicz, my friend. a man who cannot even harbor hatred for his enemies was stabbed in gdansk, a city marked by multiculturalism, bad history and good history, in the finale of a great charity event, unique in that it mobilizes the good energy of millions of people. but today it is not about unravelling what has been, but - in accordance with the will of the family present in parliament today - it is about drawing conclusions for the future, because the problem is european, not just polish. before adamowicz, jo cox was mentioned in england in 2016, theo van gogh in the netherlands in 2004, and anna lindh in sweden in 2003. previously, he was olof palme, but also daphne caruana galizia in malta and jan kuciak in slovakia. so much of this politically motivated death in the 21st century, where we should know everything about how to protect ourselves from the evils of the 20th century, which are the evils of wars and totalitarianism, because they've been fueled by hate speech. they fed on this language, which was the language of nazism, bolshevism, all totalitarianism. it is a language of contempt, stripping people of their human dignity, excluding them from the community as either enemies of the people or enemies of the fatherland. unfortunately, it comes back in alliance with the anonymity of the internet. the old demons are waking up. in a particular case, the polish hejt was nationalized, given to the public media, which lynched president adamowicz a hundred times. it was tolerated, since the perpetrators of the hanging of meps in the katowice market were tolerated, since the perpetrators of the symbolic death certificates issued to the presidents of those cities that agreed to take in refugees were not prosecuted. these are the hallmarks of the disease of our democracy. but hate speech knows no borders, and it is undermining the european union in many ways, because the european union is built on fundamentally different values: respect for the human person, diversity, openness and dialogue. so let us hope that the death of pavel adamowicz will be a wake-up call and a wake-up call. if we doubt the self-restraint of the political class, the various codes of good practice, voluntary and permanent, that means that we need to improve the rules, also enforce those rules, consistently pursue hate speech, especially in the abyss of the internet, because that's where it's most dangerous, it's anonymous. the german minister heiko maas's proposed law is a good example. we have recommendations from the polish ombudsman, twenty recommendations on how to combat hate speech, also on the internet. then and only then, the evil that has happened can be turned into good, and then and only then, in accordance with the wishes of the family of pavel adamowicz, his death will not have been in vain. (laughter)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i must say i would be rather cautious about regulating this so-called hate speech problem and what you call the political climate. it’s a very elusive, vague term and it’s usually used by politicians against their enemies. it is always ‘them’ that are hateful creatures. it is always our opponents. ‘they’ are bad people. you had a very good example: you had two interventions before mine, and in each of them it was ‘them’. it’s never ‘us’, even in this chamber. this is a highly partisan and highly political institution. whenever we hear offensive language – and we hear offensive language quite often – when somebody from this part of the chamber says something offensive and insulting then he’s usually punished or reprimanded, but when somebody from that part of the chamber says something awful and disparaging... well, it’s free speech. so the problem is, of course, who defines the rules and who will execute those rules? if i think of those two interventions, i say to myself well, if this is the language of love and tolerance then we don’t need hate and intolerance anymore. let me state the facts. a couple of weeks ago, the mayor of gdansk was assassinated by a man who we know was a convicted criminal, with a long psychiatric record and immediately – immediately – after the murder, the political opposition in poland put the blame on the polish government, on the public media, making something utterly non-political a monstrous, horrendous act of murder, but it was absolutely non-political. they made a huge case against us. if you can think of the most immoral, vile, repellent, foul, wicked, disgraceful, outrageous example of political cynicism that is it, you have it, and you heard it here, you heard about the media lynching the late president. is that the language of love? should it be punished? or should my epp colleague get away with it if i say that they lynch me? probably the authorities would not be as tolerant, but never mind. so the problem is that even this tragic death does not prevent some of you from using this death to pursue a political agenda. this is political cynicism incarnate. there are no inhibitions, no sense of shame, really! when, some years ago, mr schäuble was attacked by a lunatic, we didn’t talk about the political climate, and that was a good decision. when a couple of years ago a member of my party was killed and another gravely wounded by a completely sane man who wanted to kill the leader of my party, jarosław kaczyński, the reaction here was a sad reflection on human folly. nobody talked about hatred or hate speech. i can’t remember any reaction from the european commission – you were not there commissioner so nothing against you. probably they suffered from sudden fit of aphasia, i won’t exclude it. so i have lived long enough to see people fall and behave abominably, but in cases like this i always say to myself, my god is it really possible that people who could be called or considered civilized, is it really possible that they say such things, that they can fall so low?
two people have asked to be excused from the floor. i would remind you that there was no provision for the procedure for referrals from the floor and no provision for the possibility of taking questions indicated by the raising of the blue card. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. we are deeply concerned by the increasing violence and hatred around us. what is particularly disturbing is that such language is used very frequently by politicians and media representatives alike. so this disturbing climate of negative narrative is permeating the general public and can slowly shape a bleak vision of public life. also important, sad and completely incomprehensible is the fact that a rather perfidious reversal of narrative standards is being used. well, when a former po member murdered a law and justice activist and seriously injured another in łódź, the right-wing community did not use this in a political relationship, and the european commission did not even notice this shameful fact. but when the president of gdańsk was murdered by a criminal with a long-standing mental illness, who had nothing to do with the ruling party, both the total opposition and the ec unceremoniously created a false and perfidious political narrative. this is particularly disturbing and makes you wonder where this escalation of hatred will lead?! it's time to stop this!
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary developments since september 2018 (2019/2517 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! the law is the only and most essential instrument that allows us to function in such a diverse political and ideological environment as we find ourselves in in the european union. the soul of democracy, as father tischner said, is compromise. if the common understanding of the rule of law and the fundamental values of the european union is undermined, and instead an alternative world is created to use the law to pursue one's party and individual goals, then this is the beginning of the end of democracy. i do not understand my hungarian colleagues why they are unable to convince their boss and their government to show a little bit of good will and compromise and to restore respect for the fundamental values in hungary. so i have a question to my colleagues: do you see that instead of compromise, you only escalate the internal situation in hungary through the slave system, by throwing out the best, most famous university in the country? i think that not everyone is cynical, but some of my colleagues have some scruples.
mr. chairman, please! when a debate on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in europe is proposed, president timmermans usually says: 'now we are talking about poland or hungary'. so i accept this convention, only now, mr. president, we're going to talk about this alleged motion that's been filed against the hungarians. the rule of law is today most threatened by the behaviour of the authorities of the european union. article 354 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union expressly states: parliament may request the triggering of article 7 by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. this majority was not obtained, and yet the parliament's authorities announced that the proposal had been accepted. to falsify the election results, in totalitarian states, the falsified results were given, but to openly invalidate some of the votes cast when the results are known is really an invention unknown to history. it's a very dangerous memory. i repeat: the illiberal democracy that prime minister orban spoke about is not a postulate, but a diagnosis of what is happening in this room.
in writing. the european union is a community of different countries with different traditions. we share common values, but they cannot undermine our identity. hungarians have their own tradition and culture and a democratically elected government that has a mandate to implement its political program. the accusations against hungary are merely the result of opposition to the eu's migration policy. hungary is to be punished because the people have decided that they will not be a country of immigrants. you can't blame him for that. moreover, the decisions of the european parliament and the european commission on hungary demonstrate the enormous influence of the american financier george soros, who has launched a frontal attack on hungary. soros and european commission vice-president timmermans have known each other for a long time and regularly talk about a range of eu-related issues. sam timmermans said that he has been working with soros for about 20 years and that in their conversations the subject of how to strengthen the unity of the european union is constantly coming up. so as the centre-left candidate for the next european commission head, frans timmermans, with the help of soros, is running a campaign to whip hungary. it should be emphasised that the role of the european parliament is to conduct dialogue and not to undermine christian democracy in a sovereign country.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much for your vote and i'll say right off the bat that if i had known about the performances of my colleagues langen, kukana or preda, i probably wouldn't have performed. i'd like to endorse their opinion, but i'd like to add two things. first of all, i want to point out the fact that taiwan has done a lot, really a lot, to improve relations with the people's republic of china, and the people's republic of china should appreciate that, respect that, and not treat taiwan as a territory that needs to be taken over. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the achievements of taiwan itself, not only the one we have already mentioned, but also the technological and cultural achievements. the respect shown in this room for taiwan is truly valuable.
in writing. i am deeply concerned by the aggressive rhetoric and hostile actions of communist beijing towards the republic of china (taiwan). last year at the sede meeting, we discussed the dangers of changing air routes in the taiwan strait and military expansion in the south china sea region. recent statements by president xi jinping of the people's republic of china about the possibility of using force to force "unification" raise further concerns. i am convinced that beijing's pressure on many levels to isolate taiwan will not be effective. the west and taiwan have much more in common than just trade. we, the poles, are well aware that the people of taiwan, despite some historical and cultural ties with mainland china, do not want to live in a communist, totalitarian state. i therefore call on the high representative to be more proactive. the free world cannot be swayed by the powerful and lose sight of its values.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, transatlantic relations do not rise and fall with one particular administration, and especially now, both sides should take the transatlantic bond seriously. setting out a positive transatlantic trade agenda is necessary to reinforce this bond. i share your view, commissioner, that it is important to move towards this limited trade deal with the us, based on a narrow negotiating mandate. i believe this can help to create a more positive atmosphere with a view to countering the current global mood towards trade wars. transatlantic relations are much more than just trade relations, so i am sure that if we can find a way to accommodate our mutual interests in new trade arrangements, this can help to salvage our broader relationship. let me finish by saying that we in this house look forward to working with the new congress on constructive trade and bilateral relations.
in writing. at the beginning of his term, the new us president not only suspended the ttip negotiations, but also showed his negative emotions towards european partners at every opportunity. it seemed that washington's new allies were moscow and beijing, especially in their efforts to weaken the union's economic position. however, the european commission has adopted the right strategy of focusing on developing those elements of the relationship where progress is most likely. so it seems that we have avoided a transatlantic trade war, which was not so obvious a couple of months ago. the agreement on the possibility of exporting liquefied gas to us is particularly important from the point of view of europe's energy security. i'll remind you that this was not negotiated during the presidency of barack obama. thanks to this agreement, we are now less dependent on russia or the middle east for energy, which should make us happy. finally, i would like to thank commissioner cecilia malmström for informing me that the commission is looking into the reasons for the failure of ttip. i would remind you that this agreement was also controversial for a large part of european societies and many were relieved when president trump suspended the negotiations. if the commission is to pursue further liberalisation of international trade, it should, however, take account of the concerns of europeans.
in writing. amendment of the rules on the management of the tld . the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the candidate countries in the work of the european external action service. the existence of a specific domain name for the eu is very important from the point of view of the eu's digital identity. it is an opportunity for institutions and businesses to become easily recognisable as part of an eu community of the same principles and values. it will also contribute to the creation of a secure online environment, build quality and trust and ensure a pan-european presence in the global digital market. the .eu domain, seen as innovative and modern in europe and beyond, is also an opportunity for smaller eu entrepreneurs to integrate their businesses into the european community and thus go beyond their own country's borders. it should be borne in mind that an internet address is often the first line of contact between a customer and a company, and a european domain can be a credible business reference. it signals that the company is subject to european union law and thus makes all users responsible for its proper use.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign trade. - madam president! - i have to go. it's a good report. i would just like to draw attention to a few aspects which i think are important or to emphasize them. first, new technology companies, including those in the digital sector, and competition, often unfair competition, from outside the european union. i am referring to the acquisition of european companies by foreign companies, especially dangerous ones in sectors important for public security. secondly, the question of transport. we are increasingly seeing more and more actions to undermine competition, not just company against company, but also from member states that restrict competition. thirdly, the question of small and mediumsized enterprises. unfortunately, bureaucracy is still a factor in the weakening of competition between small and mediumsized enterprises and large companies. finally, i would also like to highlight the asymmetry that sometimes exists in trade relations between member states or between the european union and third countries. it has to be eliminated.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we all agree that a strong, effective competition policy has been at the heart of our single market from the outset. but i have mixed feelings when i see the double standards that are being used here, even in this house, to criticize particular countries, institutions or organizations. the rapporteur had no problem in pointing out specific us companies, but when it comes to european tax pathologies, it is enough to say that some governments, jurisdictions - for example luxembourg, the netherlands or ireland - have had a kind of special immunity in this matter. the same applies to energy competitiveness. the text calls for respect for the principles of solidarity and the rule of law, but there was no political will or courage to clearly indicate the project of a second northern gas pipeline. it's disappointing and not entirely fair. however, i do recognize that many of the paragraphs in the report on tax evasion, money laundering deserve support, which is why my delegation will support the report in tomorrow's vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the protection of the union's financial interests is key to increasing the confidence of the citizens of the member states in the union as such and must be supported, but to make unrealistic proposals to the european commission to examine the trust of citizens in public administrations or even democratically elected structures of the member states in the fight against corruption is a step too far, which de facto infringes the competences of the member states. in addition, under the guise of fighting fraud and protecting the union's interests, support is given to the commission's controversial proposal to link the union budget to the rule of law in the member states. however, i would stress that the commission is not empowered to examine and publish assessments of threats to the rule of law in the member states. moreover, the proposal of the european public prosecutor is a very controversial proposal for many of us.
excuse me, but the question is long. i have to interrupt it. do you know about this, mr köster?
unfortunately, we have to finish the blue card process on this one because time is running out. i'm sorry, you have the right to answer.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate today marks a strong symbolic moment, because here, this afternoon, we had the holocaust remembrance ceremony, commemorating not only the holocaust which affected jewish communities, jewish people, but also the roma holocaust. it was a touching moment: we saw the pictures drawn by children from the ghetto of terezin, which is in my country, and the records of the children’s lives ending with the number 1944. it is always shocking when we see these things and when we hear survivors, the direct witnesses. one would like to say ‘this happened 75 years ago.’ we heard from dr knobloch, who spent her childhood hidden in the cellar – her way of surviving the holocaust. we heard from her the list of people who were holocaust victims and inhabitants of concentration camps – jews, roma people, lgbt people, people belonging to other minorities, handicapped people, people with some kind of ‘otherness’. and i realised that, yes, this was more than 70 years ago, but it brought me back to the immediate present. honourable members, next week i will get from the big it companies, starting with facebook, google, microsoft, twitter and others, the data they acquired through the exercise that we call the code of conduct, through which we want them to delete hate speech from their online sphere and from social media. i call this data – which i can identify to specific member states – either a ‘map of hatred’ or a ‘map of evil’. i have already seen the previous data – i will see the fresh data next week – and it’s shocking. we have obtained again the same list of groups of people who are affected by hatred, by verbal violence which could have the potential to spill over into real violence in the real world. today we have some additional groups – refugees, people with political opinions, in some member states we have judges, everywhere we have journalists – who are the targets of the hatred that has occupied this space, this easy, comfortable space, in the online world. one thing is really worrying. when we look at the sources of this hatred, at who the authors of this production of dirt are, we are not talking about extremists. we are not talking about the members of some semi-prohibited parties or some strange communities. we are talking about europeans –honest europeans. when such cases come to court, when some of the people who send these hate messages – which are covered by criminal law – try to defend their actions, they say ‘we were not aware of the responsibility, we are honest people.’ and there are honest people there, with good jobs and a good education. so, we have a problem in europe and we will have to find the right way to address it. as the minister said before, and many of you repeated it, we have to speak out. it already requires a lot of courage to speak, but now there is a further task out there. some years ago, defending fundamental rights and anti-discrimination might have been termed ‘business as usual’. but now it requires real political will and political courage to speak in defence of minorities, including roma – to speak against the anti-gypsyism which is clearly seen in online spheres. there is a lot to be done and i very much appreciate the romanian presidency for organising this high-level conference. i would say ‘the more such events the better’, but we have to be careful that it is not a matter of the same people always speaking to the same audience. we have to be careful that everything we say at such conferences will reflect in real life. and that reflection, i have to say, must happen at a local level. our task is to create the right conditions for local politicians, local organisations and the roma people themselves, because our policy will never be successful if it is ‘for roma, about roma, but without roma’. we have to create the right conditions and we have to keep repeating that we mean it seriously. this is a problem we have to solve. i know i have spoken for a long time, so i will add just a last few comments regarding the possible future strategy, which i am committed to preparing for my successor in this position. there will be a lot of proposals repeated from the current strategy: the things which are inevitable, the things which we have to continue doing to improve the situation in education, housing, and the world of work, which has not improved over the past few years of growth. i don’t understand why, still, we have a high unemployment rate among roma people in a situation in which we have workforce needs in all the member states. we need to improve too, by traditional methods, the situation in health. however, as i see it, we now have to add two big new things. we need to do much better on explaining how to use public money, something about which ms járóka spoke. we are doing something wrong here. a lot of money has been invested and the results are very limited. we have to be objective and reconsider the methods and the channels – how we distribute the money – and encourage more the people at local level to come forward for the money. we have to simplify the rules. i think that the first steps have been taken here, because in the financial regulation a lot of simplification has already been proposed. the second thing: we have to reflect the digital revolution, because when you realise how difficult it is for many europeans to keep up to speed with technological changes, and how easily a gulf could open if you do not help communities like the roma to do this, we risk making a fatal mistake. we have to help children and young people, especially young roma people, to go digital and not to lose this opportunity, because it is a fantastic opportunity. as i said, if we miss this moment it will be a horrible and fatal mistake. we will have to reflect on the new things. we will have to drop the things which do not work – which are only a waste of time and money – and we must do better, not just with talk but with action. i am ready to do this until the end of my term of office and i count on your support and the cooperation of this parliament, because it has always been very encouraging.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this useful discussion. in closing, i would like to stress three points. the first is purely economic. as we all know, the roma community numbers some four to six million eu citizens. it is our largest ethnic minority. however, europe’s roma are not only a minority but also our fellow citizens, deserving of the same opportunities as everyone else. exclusion is economically inefficient. europe cannot afford to waste the potential of so many of its people. promoting integration is both socially fair and economically sensible. secondly, let us not forget that women and girls make up half of this enormous community and their situation is particularly difficult. our policies should be gender sensitive. this is an issue that the commission has highlighted in its recent evaluation report. the council and parliament have also acknowledged this aspect and i wish to reaffirm it here today. thirdly, we must never forget the importance of involving the roma themselves in our strategic efforts. social change can never be effective from the top down. we must empower roma communities and work together with roma decision makers, including, of course, the esteemed colleagues who sit in this house. in 2019 it is unacceptable that anyone should be born into deep poverty and condemned to a life of rejection, hopelessness and discrimination. the deep poverty that continues to exist in our midst harms the social fabric, betrays our values and damages our common future. it will take time to put this matter right: more time, more effort and more commitment. that is why both the council and the parliament have called for the strategic efforts to be continued beyond 2020. we have already planted the seeds for a better future but we must plant more seeds and we must nurture the plants that are growing.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the next item is the report by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendments to the rules of procedure affecting chapters 1 and 4 of title i, chapters 4 and 5 of title v, chapters 4 and 5 of title vii, chapter 1 of title viii, title xii, title xiv and annex ii (2018/2170 (rec)) (a8-0462/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. september 12, 2018, will be a historic date, not only because it was the 335th anniversary of john iii's defeat of the turks at vienna, but also because on that day the european parliament decided that the votes cast had not been cast. this is the first event of its kind. now we go a step further, now parliament will decide whether or not members have the right to associate, because it is the leadership of parliament that has to decide whether members who want to associate have logical connections. this is the most fundamental attack on the right to association that we've ever seen. the question is, which way are we going? when, for example, will the european commission decide whether the electoral committee in the elections is based on logical conclusions or whether it can not register it because it does not like it? we're going in a very dangerous direction. the fundamental rights that underpin the rule of law are being challenged, and by the very eu authorities that like to declare them. really, if we go step by step, this place that should be the guarantor of free speech will become the biggest threat to free speech in europe.
mr. chairman, please! mr. reiner wieland here is worried that the formation of groups is money. so i ask you, why have you created a system where the money of a member of parliament depends on his affiliation? it's unfair and it creates inequality. you have equality in your declarations, and you create inequality here, because the money that the mps receive depends on which group they belong to and how big the political group is. that's political corruption and that's reprehensible, not that you can form groups as you wish. so, it's that freedom of speech is being restricted again in these successive amendments, that feminists are once again trying to shut up about uncomfortable topics. only voters can take away the right of a member to speak, because he speaks on their behalf, not on behalf of the speaker or anyone else. there can be no censorship in parliament, neither in the european parliament nor in any other. the groups are to confirm that they will pursue the objectives of the treaties. why would you do that? if citizens want the objectives of the treaties to be changed, meps have the right to do so. and we cannot prevent a political initiative from being launched just because it does not meet the objectives that have been set. if you want to impose such restrictions on the formation of groups, then immediately write the leading role of the chadian-socialist group into the treaties and we will have the matter settled. let's play fair.
it's just that doubt is sometimes a very subjective feeling. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 31 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr. krishnanis karinsh, with whom i have had a very good working relationship.
i'm closing this debate on this point of order.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the votes so far show that we all agree - the european commission, the european parliament and the current presidency - that we all support this directive. moreover, virtually no member state is questioning the purpose of this directive, so one can ask why it is not yet in place and why in some member states the presence of women in the boards, in the top echelons of listed companies of large companies, is only 7%? if the argument of subsidiarity were genuine and sincere, member states would have introduced measures to eliminate this disparity. because nobody in their right mind would think that a disparity like 7 percent versus 93 percent or 3 percent versus 97 percent, as is the case with ceos, is due to a difference in talent or competence. it is clear that there are other mechanisms at work here that need to be addressed, and apparently, since there is no effect at member state level, this response must come from the european union. i wholeheartedly support this directive commissioner viviane reding's excellent directive and it is high time that it is competences and not other factors that decide the appointment of people to the highest positions. i would remind you that this directive is about clear recruitment rules, about recruiting for such high positions having clearly defined criteria, so that we know how this process is done, and that it is not done on the basis of the selection of colleagues from the calendar of school years, but that it is transparent and clear to all procedures. and i would like to add one last thing: as a representative of the epp, i would stress that since the main obstacle to women's participation in the labour market and promotion is the issue of childcare, the issue of work-life balance is absolutely crucial in this matter, which does not mean that this directive is not a necessary, important additional impulse that can correct the situation. i would also like to congratulate the presidency on the successful conclusion of the last trialogue and to call on all the political groups to support this directive in the forthcoming votes.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, minister, please! this is a really big deal. when we look at the gender equality index, we see that women are actually underrepresented on company boards, underrepresented in senior positions. and then you start to think, why is this happening? after all, women are competent, educated, hardworking, ambitious. they are certainly no weaker or less talented than men. so why are there so few women in high places? well, in my opinion, one of the main reasons is that women are slower to build their career paths, because they want to be not only great workers, but they want to be mothers as well. and that time when they're taking time off from their professional lives to pursue their dreams of motherhood is one of the main reasons they're slowing down their career paths. so we should think about what we should do to make sure that there are more women in high positions, but not to bring women in artificially, not mechanically, not through directives, but to propose solutions that allow women to combine work and family life. we really need solutions that allow us to achieve a work-life balance. and i think that this kind of solution and this kind of compromise will definitely have a good effect. eurostat indicates that the wage gap in the member states is diverse. there are countries where this pay gap between women and men is very large. fortunately, poland is in the top five member states with the smallest pay gap, and in recent years the number of women in high-level positions in poland has increased significantly without mechanical, artificial regulation.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i see that this feminist craze continues, we want to turn women into men and men into women. i don't really understand if it's some kind of disease or something else, but as long as it was so ridiculous (like the recent vote that there are not enough women grazing sheep and goats), you could only laugh about it. but a directive of this kind, which introduces the principle in companies that it is not competence that counts, but the amount, how many women there are, how many men, is already dangerous. of course, you could say, what's the problem, a few guys will say they're women, and the gender balance will be maintained. you voted for it, and now you've got it all worked out. but this case is too serious to be reduced to ridicule. we see that all the relevant legislation in the european union is drawn up by the european commission, and parliament obediently sticks to it, although sometimes, unfortunately, it is the group of members who initiates the most absurd and harmful legislation. these laws, bit by bit, are taking away our personal freedom, taking away the economic freedom of entrepreneurs, taking away the independence of states. these resolutions that the european parliament is making here in their thousands - usually meaningless or meaningless - have one thing in common: they must state that immigrants, homosexuals and, of course, feminist movements are better than european citizens. it must be contained, it's really some kind of disease. it's time to get out of this union. i don't think it can be reformed. i call on other countries to follow the uk's lead in leaving the eu, and on members of parliament to prepare for this. let us create a new union, the kind that the founders of the present one dreamed of. let it be a union without borders, but one that doesn't interfere with families, doesn't ridicule women raising children, saying they're house hens, like i heard the other day. one that doesn't interfere with the economy. where the european commission is the obedient bureaucrats, not the masters of us all. we must re-create this union. there is no other way. i hope i live to see that day, because in two years' time, there will be no way out of this union, this is the last moment.
mr. chairman, please! let me try to explain something to you. i need you to focus, i only have a minute. you're making false assumptions and you're coming to false conclusions. first, you assume that women have the same predisposition, the same qualifications, the same desire to be in leadership positions as men. you're going from a false assumption to lamenting the imbalance in the boardroom. you're talking about a conspiracy theory, some kind of patriarchal conspiracy that prevents women from being elected to corporate boards. well, the initial assumption is verified by the reality, by the economy: if women are not employed as willingly, or they don't push themselves to management, then apparently they either don't have the same competencies, the same predispositions, or the same willingness to follow that path. men compensate for this by, for example, living shorter lives. how do you intend to make up for the loss of men, to even the score on this aspect? if the market shows that women are not getting as many of the same jobs, then clearly the reason is somewhere else, not in the male conspiracy.
mr. chairman, please! on the issue of women on company boards and gender balance in general, let's look at the three most important institutions of the european union: the european parliament, the european commission and the european council. of the 12 presidents of the european commission, not one has been a woman. furthermore, of the 30 presidents of the european parliament, only two are women, and of the 78 (78!) presidents of the european council, only two are women. so why don't women's organizations bring this up in parliament, why didn't any male presidents hit their chest? did it take an eu directive to do this brave thing? then all are equal before the law. women and men have equal rights in family, political, social and economic life this is written in the constitution of the republic of poland. we are a society of women who are resourceful, educated, competent and responsible. everyone deserves respect and fair treatment, because they have the same rights and equal dignity. this is simply to be observed, this is our contemporary axiological and civilizational imperative.
in writing. while gender equality is one of the core values of the european union, women are still a significant minority on company boards and supervisory boards despite continuing efforts to increase gender diversity in key national bodies. today, women hold 15 percent of board seats globally. in poland, women hold just over 15% of the seats on supervisory boards and 6.3% of the boards of directors of over 480 companies listed on the main market. in the european union, the introduction of parity rules in some member states has proved successful. however, data collected by the european institute for gender equality show that in 2017, women accounted for only 25% of all board members of the largest listed companies in the eu, with large disparities between member states, ranging from 7,4% to 43%. this clearly shows the importance of the eu directive. that is why the council's position on this matter is so deeply disturbing. although the european parliament adopted its position as early as 2013, when it supported the commission's initiative to address inequalities by requiring at least 40% of women on company boards, the directive is still blocked in the council despite numerous calls from our side.
mr president, prime minister, please! thank you very much for your very responsible speech. you presented an ambitious plan for the future finnish presidency, you talked a lot about the environment, about the economy, about implementing various solutions. you are the prime minister of a country that has the best european, and i would say world, education system. i expected you to devote a great deal of attention to education and, although this is a competence of the member states, you will propose the implementation of the finnish education system, which today best prepares its young citizens for an unpredictable professional future. the european union is seen by the world as an organisation that puts social capital at the heart of its work. in the age of robotics and artificial intelligence, should not the preparation of european society for the changes taking place be a priority for the finnish presidency? couldn't europeans, at least under the finnish presidency, learn from the best?
mr. chairman, please! democracy, the rule of law are the foundations on which the european union is built. the foundations are being broken more and more often, but the value of the european union is also the common market, the free movement of services, people and goods. and here, too, we see a desire to limit these freedoms. finland, despite being on the periphery of the european union (it takes five days for a truck to get from helsinki to brussels), supported the general approach of the council of the european union to the mobility package. at the same time, finnish mps voted to exclude international transport from the rules on posting. and here's my question, mr. prime minister: do you not feel that by supporting the solutions proposed by the council, you are actually restricting economic freedom? you are not removing trade barriers, and you said that these barriers should be removed, but at the same time it may turn out that many small and mediumsized enterprises will have to close down their businesses and consumers, including finnish consumers, will pay the price for the increase in the prices of services and goods.
madam president! the amendment to allow the ruling majority groups to dissolve the opposition groups has been dropped. the vote on it shows that several hundred people supported this amendment, so the threat to democracy in europe should not be sought in some small, marginal neo-fascist groups, but here, in this room. i think it's hypocritical that one day we're talking about freedom of speech in venezuela, and then we're restricting freedom of speech in this room again. a member of parliament should only be accountable to his constituents and not to his political opponents, because any means of controlling members, however demagogically they may be justified here: goodness, transparency, hate speech, etc., can serve as a tool of repression. and that is absolutely unacceptable. i hope history will bury those who today, being in the majority, want to control the minority, and after some changes, perhaps, some day, some of their political opponents will harass them for hate speech. for example, i would consider hate speech to be a demand for privileges for women that is hate speech against men or raising taxes is a tool of economic oppression.
madam president! the introduction of new ad hoc items on the agenda very often unfortunately deprives those items which were scheduled in advance of the opportunity for a serious debate. i think there may be exceptions to this rule, but unfortunately, they become the rule. so now, in summary, two comments on the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. one for the pessimists, one for the optimists. the first is mainly related to the decreasing number of cases reported in 2017 compared to 2016; it fell to eur 2,58 billion. but i want to bring to the attention of these complacent optimists a second point: compared to 2016, the fraud alone is €0.5 billion, an increase of almost 20%.
madam president! after the debate, i received a few questions. first of all, why was this domain review? and what are the conclusions of this review? it seems that the debate has not provided sufficient answers to these two questions. i would like to emphasize that the review itself was mainly because we have a huge increase in the top-level domains, i.e. those that dominate and decide on the quality of the functioning of the information market, information on this subject. but what is its effect? that's the most important thing. i want to make four points. first, the removal of outdated legal requirements, including administrative ones, and the actual updating of the rules. second, to further reflect and promote the eu's priorities in the online world, more effectively. third, to ease the existing eligibility criteria for domain registrations. fourthly, and finally, the abolition of the vertical separation ban, which requires a strict separation between the organisations managing domain names, registrations and the entities selling them.
madam president! this report is an example of the ideologisation of everything the european union does. even the stupid two letters at the end of the domain can be dressed up in some incredible statements about protecting european identity. he wants to make it dependent on promoting eu values. i am sure that even if we were to debate potatoes here, it would be clear that potatoes can be a tool for european identity and for promoting the values of the union. the dependence on whether someone can buy a domain, on whether they live here or not, whether they have values and whether the domain will serve multilingualism, is just pathetic. so if it's not translated into a few languages, then maybe it's not possible to buy that domain or it's taken away? really, it's all so sad it's funny, or maybe so funny it's sad. i voted against it.
madam president! i abstained from the vote. i didn't want to vote against it, so i wouldn't be in the rhetoric of defending the communist regime that we hear from the left side of the room. it turns out that our red colleagues are much more tolerant of totalitarian regimes if they share their values. and now they're talking about legality? i would like to remind you how they voted on the case of moldova, when they ordered the government to make a coup against the legal decision of the court. and in the sudan case, we voted for the government to challenge the court's rulings. and here we are, all of a sudden, these legalists. but i could not vote for either, because first of all, it is a total hypocrisy to, on the day when we are once again restricting the freedom of speech of members in our own parliament, again lecture the world on freedom of speech. secondly, i am not in favour of the european parliament writing resolutions in which we are constantly speaking out on every subject in the world without really knowing anything about it. and we're not meant to be. parliament should be the law for europeans, not the voice of politics.
madam president! this time, the annual report on competition policy was not as routine as usual. perhaps because a lot of time has been spent on two very serious players: on the one hand, the truck manufacturers who have built a cartel that has raised the prices of these vehicles on the european market, and on the other hand, for example, google. i would point out that the agreement in this chamber on the need to condemn practices that raise prices and do not ensure competitiveness, despite some internal consistency, is very often superficial. i would also point out that competition policy must be geared to ensuring a level playing field for all operators in all sectors and that this is the cornerstone of the european social market economy. and under no circumstances can we allow wealthy individuals, wealthy entities, to be privileged in any way under these circumstances.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank mr salafranca for his very important report, but i will also put it this way: this eu anti-fraud programme could - i stress - contribute to the protection of financial interests, but we cannot support references to the role of the european public prosecutor's office and the pif directive as tools for preventing fraud in the european union, nor references to the protection of the union's budget in the case of the rule of law in the member states. this is not the way it should be and it undermines the resolution we need, the report we need. we cannot accept the dangerous transfer of powers to the european commission from the member states, including the exercise of controls.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. it is a good report, although i will say at once that the amendments submitted were both for its improvement and for its deterioration. i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteur on the way he has conducted this vote, so that the report has not been corrupted, but has been corrected in some respects. i'll tell you one thing. from time to time, doubts arise in this room about this issue in one key issue the european public prosecutor's office. i think there will be less controversy, less difference, more acceptance if the competences are - in short - better defined. and congratulations to my colleagues, because the report is good.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i'd like to thank mr. corbett, because in one minute he said something that would have taken me probably two minutes. thank you very, very much. i would also like to thank mr kelly for bringing up a very important issue that i am interested in, namely amateur fishing and tourism, in relation to brexit. i would like to draw attention to one important aspect, an important element. we are dealing here with the adoption of a report and very often with a procedural defect which amounts to the rejection of a decision to enter into interinstitutional negotiations with the council. i hope that in such situations we will be able to exercise caution and to arrive before brexit, so that we can actually introduce this issue at least for the transition period. i hope that this transitional period will be and i hope that there will be regulations to protect this part of the market also in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there are many reasons to support this report. first, the mutual benefits for the development of the ivorian fishing fleet and the economic benefits for the european union fleets. secondly - and most importantly - it is about the prudent and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, based on the available scientific advice and taking into account the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. for example, bluefin tuna is one of the most valuable fish in the world and should be protected from overfishing. the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of marine resources. so it is our duty to protect the marine ecosystem, the precious fish stocks and biodiversity for future generations, but also to support other countries, including côte d'ivoire.
mr president, in the end, i think we all want the same thing –that’s responsible and sustainable fishing. this is also the case in this new protocol. as such, it provides for close collaboration to promote the sustainable exploitation of fishing resources in those waters, and it also supports the efforts of the country to develop the blue economy, in the interests of both us and them. on one side, the ivorian fishing industry, in particular the small-scale fisheries, need structural support from the eu to contribute more effectively to national development and food needs. on the other hand, the evaluation of the previous protocol concluded that a renewal of the protocol would help strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance and contribute to improving governance of fisheries in the region. this is a win-win situation and tomorrow we should vote in favour and give consent to the conclusion of this protocol.
mr. chairman, please! this is my last activity for the day. i would like to draw attention to just one important point. on the one hand, the adoption of the text of this protocol is not in doubt, but please note one important, really important dispute that we have at the political level. it is primarily a question of a conflict, a dispute between the text of the resolution itself and the proposal for an agreement. i am interested in the source of this kind of opposition, this kind of conflict, which ultimately undermines the authority of parliament.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for your excellent cooperation! the report assesses the effectiveness of the treaty approaches to narrow the gap between european integration and the potential of european citizenship. there is no contradiction between being a citizen of a country and having a sense of national identity and being a citizen and having a sense of european identity. only the narrow-minded nationalists don't understand that. as citizens of a union country, we all have european citizenship, which brings with it many freedoms and privileges as a result of real integration. as always, along with privileges come responsibilities, like voting. the 'i vote together' campaign to increase voter turnout is important because the outcome of these elections will determine the future of the union. the report proposes a european citizenship statute, which would bring together rights and opportunities for citizenship and democracy-building through participation from the various union documents. there is nothing more important today than to raise awareness of the need to participate in european democracy by influencing decisions. citizens' participation in shaping the eu agenda strengthens their sense of ownership of the european project. lack of active participation fosters a sense of insecurity and danger, fuelled by populism. the participation of european citizens in european democracy must be strongly supported by civil society. it's a democracy that's practiced every day. for the coming term, this report is to be fully implemented.
in writing. the development of the ombudsman's role in the constitutional structure of the union requires that his independence be maintained. it is therefore imperative to align the provisions of the statute of the european ombudsman with the treaties in force. it is also necessary to ensure that this body continues to play a special and decisive role in the constitutional framework of the european union. it is worth mentioning that the ombudsman should not be politically or budgetarily dependent on other union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies for the performance of his or her duties. moreover, the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union should be required to provide the ombudsman with any information requested by him, subject to the obligation of the ombudsman not to disclose such information. i hope that the new statute will strengthen the independence and impartiality of this body.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. governments have a duty, when the protection of the people requires it, to use force directly in the defense of the people or in the defense of their rights, the independence of the homeland or public order. but every time that happens, of course, it has to be subject to both evaluation and specific legal scrutiny. those are the rules. the problem today is that the european union authorities always assume that the use of force by liberal governments is presumptively justified, and if conservative governments are put in that position, it's suspicious, it needs to be controlled, it's certainly violating someone else's rights. i regret that president timmermans is not here to answer that question: these double standards show how much the principles of impartiality, solidarity and respect for minorities are under threat in the life of the european union today, because respect for weaker countries is precisely respect for minorities.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i generally agree with you, but i wanted to ask what restrictions on freedom of assembly are in poland. rather, it was the european parliament that criticized the assemblies that were held in poland. in poland, yes, the police fired with a smooth-bore weapon, even gouged out the eye of a journalist, but that was under the liberal governments when the current president of the european council was the prime minister.
madam president! for this debate to take place, it had to take place under such a neutral, non-speaking title. they're equal and more equal. we cannot debate the situation in france simply because there are countries in the european union that are allowed to teach, that would like to teach, and that are not taught. just as in the classroom, we have a teacher, but it is not possible for a pupil to call the teacher to the table, so it is not possible for france to be called before parliament and have to explain itself. secondly, i don't agree that the police should not use force, that the use of weapons should be prohibited. the problem is that our countries are often weak against the strong, strong against the weak, that phones are thrown out of the hands of people who have done nothing wrong, and when some bandits loot shops and burn cars, they are treated with a clear fear and no one has the courage to give the order to shoot at such people with live ammunition. because if someone's attacking, it doesn't matter if they have some revolutionary slogans on their lips.
in writing. the union has been enacting legislation since the early 1990s to protect endangered animal species in the union and their natural ecosystems. this includes the birds and habitats directive. as a result, a number of animal species that were on the verge of extinction in europe have started to recover dynamically. this is especially true of large predators such as wolves, bears and lynx. initially, the mountain and peripheral regions were the main affected. however, the problem is now becoming more widespread: predators are attacking livestock and even humans, even in densely populated areas. wolves are particularly troublesome, causing increasing losses for farmers, forcing them to close their herds and investing in costly safeguards. but the biggest losses are caused by wild animals that destroy crops on a massive scale. cormorants and otters are also the main sources of damage in aquaculture. there is no doubt that the union's environmental policy is necessary and is producing tangible results. however, solutions need to be found to ensure a balance between the protection of endangered species and agricultural activities.
mr. chairman, please! the development of the pesco agreement is really a step towards building a european army and i am very surprised that many governments are pursuing such a policy on short legs and are subscribing to this agreement, especially the polish government is doing so. we already know what happened when president kaczyński signed the lisbon treaty earlier, that poland is now being humiliated in front of the whole world by the european commission. and if the european union has such a military arm, i think we will see a common european army that will bring fraternal help to nations threatened by the deficits of democracy, human rights and gender equality. so i think that's a very dangerous direction and an institution that is so ideologized like the european union shouldn't have an army because it's very dangerous. moreover, it is a policy of the so-called europeanization of europe, that is, a consistent attempt to free germany from the consequences of the lost wars and to build its own military alliance independent of the americans.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. cross-border healthcare could be a great opportunity for patients in a situation of problems in member states, especially since a high level of human health protection is ensured under the treaty. the organisation, financing and delivery of healthcare are the responsibility of the member states, which means that crossborder care is mainly available to patients from border regions of the eu's oldest countries or to patients from rich countries travelling to poorer countries where treatment costs are lower, while central european countries fear excessive budget cuts or patients cannot afford expensive treatment abroad. of course, patients must be informed of the possibilities and rights arising from the regulation or directive through information points. however, cross-border care could be a great opportunity for people with rare diseases, which affect around 6% of all citizens, given that each of these diseases affects a relatively small number of patients. cross-border cooperation should play a role in gathering information to combat rare diseases, possibly creating specialised reference centres and searching for new medicines, as current prices prevent treatment. and of course, cross-border care can play a huge role in pandemics, although i would leave the vaccination issue to the member states.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i am pleased that the european parliament has taken up the issue of the implementation of the directive on cross-border healthcare. i agree with the rapporteur that unfortunately - although it will soon be eight years since it was adopted - there is very little public awareness of the possibility of reimbursing the cost of treatment in a neighbouring country. this is a priority on which the eu institutions should work with the member states. i therefore support the call to increase the visibility and accessibility of the national contact points, which are the main institutions providing information in this area. in addition, any remaining legal and administrative barriers identified in the report, resulting from poor transposition of the directive, should be removed in order to allow patients to enjoy their rights without hindrance. the procedure for obtaining reimbursement of medical expenses should be standard, simple and, equally important, quick.
madam president! in yesterday's debate, which was rather intense and short, i did not have time to express my positive opinion on the new proposal for changes to computer software. i think that is one of the most important elements of this report. i think that by doing this, we're not just increasing bureaucracy for the sake of bureaucracy, but we're also building some mechanisms for genuinely, very simply and inexpensively eliminating all of what we call financial abuse. i would also point out that the support for this report was so high that a number of amendments were adopted to improve the first version, for which i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly.
madam president! i was the mayor of wroclaw for over 11 years, so i know not only the local economy, but also the complexity of the problem. i say this because there is something absolutely new and important in this report. i would remind you that the rapporteur, while agreeing with the message addressed mainly to agriculture, pointed out that the regulation defining at european union level should also be harmonised with regard to the use of municipal waste water. i would point out that the communal economy in cities like helsinki, madrid, naples, wroclaw are completely different economies, they are very different systems as well. some are in private hands, some are in government hands. it is important that the opinion, the voice of local government communities, be taken into account in the preparation of this report. in my view, this regulation will then be in short safer.
madam president! contrary to what we read in this report, hatred of roma is not a specific form of racism, because people do not hate roma because they are roma, but because of their specific culture, their way of life, which is often drastically different from the way of life of the societies in which they live. and the draft resolution itself is a form of racism. this resolution makes aid to roma dependent on their being roma, i.e. it proposes to define rights according to the origin of these people rather than their specific situation. so despite such anti-discrimination rhetoric, it will probably end up with an increase in anti-gypsyism, because if the rest of society is forced to pay for the roma, seeing especially the poor effects of such programs because in other countries millions have already been drowned in such programs and it has done nothing completely it has only intensified these bad moods. besides, if they wanted to, they would have integrated into our society long ago, and they're running away from what you're trying to put them through.
madam president! as we know, in accordance with article 9 of the treaty on european union and article 20 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union every citizen of a member state is also a citizen of the european union. unfortunately, most people in europe don't know this, they don't have an awareness of their rights. this is borne out by various studies, for example, which show that 54% of citizens admit to having some knowledge of the subject, but 45% of citizens of the member states are completely unaware of the rights and obligations of membership of the european union and of being a citizen of the european union. this indicates the need for a wide-ranging promotion effort by the european parliament and the institutions of the european union. after all, we need the integration of european citizens, not just in the formal sense, not just on paper, but in the emotional sense, in the psychological sense. this is a great and serious task for us.
madam president! the appointment of the european ombudsman is a major achievement for the european union, but it is also an important competence of the european parliament, because we are electing a person to this very important, vital function. unfortunately, in recent years in europe, in the member states, we have seen an increase in violations of human rights, violations of civil rights, but, worst of all, also violations, limitations, and in some countries even the liquidation of institutions, the independence of institutions and the rule of law. in this context, the european ombudsman is an extremely important institution. but what is not widely known is that this institution has no links with national institutions, with ombudsmen in the member states. this makes it difficult for him to cooperate and support his colleagues in these member states' institutions. i think it's time to think about whether or not we can create a systemic solution that would apply to the whole of the european union.
madam president, the comprehensive industrial policy on artificial intelligence and robotics is a report which has been drawn up on my own initiative. i have to say, on the one hand, it's good, on the other hand, it's bad. it is good that it has been established, bad that it points to a certain gap in the activity of the european commission in an extremely complex and highly knowledge-intensive area, as well as responsibility for the letter of the law and for the law not to be so far behind these new technologies. the report itself is full of various legitimate elements, such as those concerning responsibility, and less important ones but i would also not disregard the ethical ones. it rightly calls for inter-sectoral cooperation, but above all it contains a large number of gaps in the field of security, defence and responsibility for the various activities of this artificial intelligence, this robotics, also in relation to individual citizens. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the commission to be more active, especially in the area of new technologies, because unfortunately we are still lagging behind in this area.
madam president! a quarter of the world's industrial robots and half of the world's service robots are european union products. unfortunately, if you look at the results and the achievements of the race in research and development, but also in the production of artificial intelligence and robots, the european union is not doing so well. china and the united states are leading the way. why do i stress that? the point is that it seems -- and i'm sure it's not enough -- that artificial intelligence is the inevitable future of civilization, not just in the service sector, not just in the industrial sector, but in our private lives. it should therefore become a priority of the european union's policy - not just its industrial policy - which it is not. i therefore support this report and call for more dynamic action in this area.
madam president, in this report you acknowledge that european companies produce half the highly specialised robots in the world, so if something is not broken, let's not fix it. i remind you of a report a few months ago in which you admitted that eu regulations had actually destroyed organic farming in the european union. in a situation of a strong increase in demand for these products, europe has been sleeping through this period because of over-regulation, because the regulations have practically paralysed the development of this market. so we're on our way to doing it again. we have a chance to put our fingers in something, and we put our fingers in it, we politicize it, we read about fundamental rights, about preventing manipulation. we already know who's the best at manipulation, so i think we're on track to make the european union the tail end of artificial intelligence with this kind of regulation.
madam president! i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european parliament's directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, which could play a huge role in cases of difficulty in providing care in individual eu countries or in border areas, but which requires authorisation and information on the possibilities of using crossborder treatment and respect for patients' rights. however, financial inequality between countries and red tape can be a major problem, which member states should counter by setting up contact points to share information on possible reimbursements. cross-border care can provide a particular opportunity to treat people with rare diseases. the european union's cooperation would also be beneficial in terms of diagnostics and drug discovery, which are currently very expensive and prevent many patients from being treated. the role of cross-border care in pandemic and vaccination cases was also highlighted.
madam president! if syria was somewhere else in the world, no one would be interested in it. the power there may not be the best, but it's not the worst either. there are worse countries and they're not bombed. well, it's not so much a syrian problem as it is a middle eastern problem. the middle east is now a focus of external aggression from many different centers, many different forces, and there are several countries that have been completely destroyed: first iraq, then libya, tunisia, egypt. these countries have already been completely destroyed and there are great human tragedies, and that is forgotten. they're talking about syria, which is not completely destroyed yet. so if we want to understand what's going on in the middle east today, where these conflicts are coming from, we need to know the truth, what are the real, real causes of external, military intervention in this region. who's fighting there and what's it for, who's destroying these countries from the outside and why they're destroying them. then we can think rationally about the situation and the ways out.
madam president! the situation in syria is obviously far from resolved. and you can see that in this debate, in the diversity of votes, and especially in the ratings. but i want to draw attention to one very important fact, from my point of view. well, first of all, all those who are institutionally concerned about syria are inconsistent. there is no consequence in either of these false agreements, real or pretended, international agreements. there is a lack of consistency in humanitarian aid, there is a lack of consistency in military action, especially in recent months, and above all in the principles, in the gradation of the individual problems that need to be solved. and i'm pointing this out because, from this point of view, these are the reasons why we're not getting any results. we know very well who the player is, the most important player, because it is russia, israel, turkey and of course assad - all of them are the ones who, in the current conditions of this certain chaos, lack of consistency, lack of value system, are getting the highest results, unfortunately not the best for the situation in this country.
mr. chairman, please! almost 25 years ago i was in sarajevo with humanitarian aid on the thousandth day of the siege of that city, now, recently with a visit to the european parliament primarily to show or monitor the security situation. i have to say that i would prefer not to go back to that situation 25 years ago, to that war, to that tension, but unfortunately the situation today in this country is full of tension and full of danger. it should be remembered that the offer of the european parliament, the european union for this country was a mobilizing offer. but that mobilizing element is not working. we do not have time to use such projects, such incentives to help countries in this situation to recover from their internal crises. we need a graduation of objectives, a remarkable consistency and, above all, a coherence of all the behaviour that flows from the european parliament to this country.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation by david martin on behalf of the committee on international trade concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of singapore (07971/2018 - c8-0446/2018 - 2018/0093 ((nle)) in the form of a council decision on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of singapore (0268/martin/2018 (c0208/m)) in the form of a council decision on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of singapore (07971/2018 - c8-0446/2018 - 2018/le-0040/2019) in the form of a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of singapore on the protection of investments in foreign currency (0238/2018 - c0208/mle-0054/2019) on the one hand, and the report by david martin on behalf of the committee on international trade concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of singapore on the protection of investments between the european union and the european union and the european union, on the one hand, and the other hand, and the draft council resolution by antonin whitehead (a-0598-059895/2018 - cle-0054/2018) on behalf of the european union, and the other parties to the draft council, and the draft decision by the european commission, on the european union, on the proposal by the european union, by, by, by, by, by, on the european union, and on the european union, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, on behalf of, by, by, and between the european union, by, by, by, by,
thank you very much, mr. martin. i have a cordial request: we are 50 minutes late, so please observe the time very carefully, because we should have finished our debate before midnight. for the same reasons, i also ask that you not ask questions by raising your blue card.
mr president, tomorrow we will vote to enhance free trade and maintain the international competitiveness of european companies. we will vote to promote not only economic growth but also norms and values that will help address today’s complex global value chains, achieving a level playing field while promoting social inclusion and environmental protection. even though sometimes it is challenging for european companies, we are proud to set standards and to be an example in the global world. in return, our businesses grow. the trade agreements have contributed to the significant growth of eu exports. we now have the largest web of preferential trade agreements in place worldwide – around 70 in total, spanning five continents – and we have to remember too the european jobs that are created through these agreements. once again, trade agreements with countries like japan, singapore or vietnam have an effect and we too benefit from them. we should take advantage of them in the future as well. tomorrow i hope we will vote in favour of this agreement, and i will encourage everyone to do so.
mr. chairman, please! we started in 2014 with questions addressed to the court of justice. we got the answer in 2017, it's 2019 and we're joining countries like indonesia, the philippines, vietnam today with a new agreement - which is very exciting - another country from asia, very important to us, singapore. i should like to say that i was equally pleased with the agreement between the european union and canada. in my view, the protection of investments, the elimination of double taxation, the various customs barriers, are not only in the interests of our partners, of course, but above all in our own interests. that's something to be happy about. i'm afraid the procedures we use are very cumbersome. they are putting the european union at risk of wasting time. it is worthwhile to think about what can be done to make these procedures simpler, faster and more transparent.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i am of course in favour of women's equality, but unfortunately i strongly disagree with the main assumptions and key elements of this resolution, firstly because it seeks to restrict freedom of expression by calling for the condemnation of criticism of the istanbul convention, secondly because it condemns the orientation of equality policy towards maternal and family policy, which is the crowning proof that you consider the state to be a ball in the foot that hinders women's professional development, with which i absolutely cannot agree, and thirdly because it contains a scandalous call to consider the protection of life after conception as disinformation. so you would like to restrict the pro-life movement from recognizing that abortion is the killing of the unborn child. i strongly disagree with the resolution's assumption that abortion or sexual minority rights can be understood as a violation of women's rights. that is why i am proposing an alternative motion for a resolution in which i stress the need to reduce the wage and pension gap. i would like to stress the need to combat violence against women. i condemn forced marriage, female genital mutilation. i am pointing out the need to increase the participation of women in public life. i'm drawing attention to the problem... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! mrs. lopez here is concerned that she's observing hostility to women's rights. of course, these are completely worthless observations, as are all the talk, all the nonsense about inequality and discrimination. what you're really seeing is maybe this impatience with your constant chatter, this healthy reaction of the public, which is being flooded with this false propaganda, this nagging, this sick war of the sexes, this vision of the world where the most important thing is that the ratio of x and y chromosomes is the same everywhere. it's a healthy and normal public disgust with people who create problems where there are none. and since you have been smearing all these years with your pills, your rants, resolutions, reports, appeals, programs and you have not noticed any meaningful effects - you yourself say that perhaps even the opposite - it means that you are doing it wrong, it means that it does not work. so what does this say to feminists? more of the same, more resolutions, more debate, more talk, more programs, more appeals and so on, and more annoying people.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! women's rights have always been and are part of the core european values. there is no more feminine political organization than the european union. yet, this resolution does not come about by accident. the right-wing and populist wave that is sweeping europe is bearing fruit in a significant deterioration of women's rights. the backlash is particularly directed at the most private sphere of life, namely women's reproductive health and rights. the emergency contraceptive prescriptions are back. there are bills to ban abortion. pro-feminist organizations are denied funding. they're being harassed by constant checks. she's suspicious of anything that has a gender, gender equality, or feminism in its title. it's hard to believe we're living in the 21st century. commissioner, it is high time that the european commission took a closer look at its options for intervention and used all the means at its disposal to stop the backlash and strengthen the pro-feminist direction of national policies in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is the european union authorities, not the critics of the istanbul convention, who are misleading the public. i am speaking to the european union authorities because the commissioner was speaking here officially. article 14 of the convention promises the use of education to promote non-stereotypical gender roles. the charter of fundamental rights guarantees parents the right to object to such experiments on children. article 12 says that schools are to root out traditions and customs that perpetuate stereotypical roles for women. i guess the odyssey will have to be banned because penelope waited too long for her husband. how can you say that countries that have not signed the convention tolerate violence?! commissioner, your country does not tolerate violence, it is in germany - not in the czech republic - that forced marriages take place. please do not mislead the public. please respect the european union countries like bulgaria, who have constitutionally said they don't want this convention. you have a duty to protect them.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! diseases of civilization, including cancer, are largely the result of environmental pollution that surrounds us. industrial food production, pollution of water, soil, air, carcinogenic building materials all bring their rewards in the form of cancer. and that's why, in addition to medical care, fighting cancer requires a very broad effort on behalf of the entire civilization around us. it's very good that this report came out, this resolution that we're talking about today. it's very good that there are very specific ways of how to prevent cancer and how to treat it effectively. and i very much welcome what i have heard from the european commission, that the european strategy, the european approach, recommended in this resolution, is already being implemented in part. we need a strategy like that. we need common solutions, common funding and above all, ensuring access to the best standard so that every woman living in europe - whether she lives in eastern europe or in western europe - has the same chance of being cured when she has cancer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. one in three europeans will develop cancer in their lifetime, and more than 1 300 000 people die of it every year in the european union, accounting for around 26% of all deaths. the main forms of cancer that affect women are breast, uterine and cervical cancers. breast cancer is the most common cancer in the female population. i agree that a european strategy to combat cancer is very much needed. unfortunately, there are significant differences between the diagnosis and treatment standards of cancer in central and eastern europe and western europe. we should take action to redress these disparities, to promote healthy lifestyles, to draw attention to the need for screening and early diagnosis.
madam president! there is absolutely no reason for the european union to be concerned about the rights of people with sexual dysfunctions, so-called lgbt and qxyz and so on. already, this is a group that we give too much attention to, especially when we compare it to its importance in society, and even enjoy certain privileges. because recently in the uk, for example, police raided a home and arrested a woman just because she called a guy online, a guy who had cut his jewelry and changed his gender on paper. if someone thinks that by cutting out this and experiencing something else, they're changing their gender, well, of course they have the right to think that, but someone else on the other hand has the right to think something else. and he has the right to express those views online and beyond. and what you're trying to do is intimidate people. what the moral left that rules the european union is trying to do is censor, suppress criticism by force and terrorize the public.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am in favour of not only finding new natural remedies associated with reduced side effects, but above all of prevention, which should be fundamental to health care, and which should go far beyond the elimination of risk factors. so far, this has been addressed in the resolution. official data on medical marijuana research and funding is sketchy. the documented therapeutic effects of cannabis-based pharmacological preparations relate only to the reduction of spasticity in ms, analgesic and anti-emetic effects after chemotherapy in cancer. the use of cannabis for medical purposes is not yet well established, and the use of cannabis for medical purposes is not yet widely accepted. such variants should be studied in clinical settings before being introduced into open-label treatment and only used for treatment in individual disease units if the benefits of the drug outweigh the side effects. experimenting with drugs, prescribing them for so many illnesses and conditions without prior reliable research, is counterproductive to prevention, especially since drug treatment is characterized by adaptation to drugs, the need to use ever higher doses, stronger drugs and complications.
in writing. paracelsus, known as the father of modern medicine, famously said that "it is the dose that determines whether a substance is a poison or a medicine". i think the same can be said for marijuana, and it's only the right ratio of thc to cbd and the way it's administered that determines whether marijuana is a medical or recreational drug. the two main substances in the dried or fermented flower heads of female cannabis (cannabis sativa) are thc (delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinoid), which has 'narcotic' effects: euphoric, relaxing, mood altering, and cbd (cannabidiol) has anti-convulsant, anti-psychotic, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer effects and possibly prevents neurodegenerative changes. so for medicinal purposes, we want cbd with a little bit of thc. all the wisdom and... the art. and since medicine is both science and art, it should be trusted. the ep's adopted dossier gives the green light for the controlled and scientifically supervised use of cannabis for medicinal purposes. because if there is or will be scientific evidence that marijuana reduces pain, vomiting, improves appetite and well-being caused by chemotherapy, or reduces the number of seizures in patients suffering from drug-resistant epilepsy and rare epileptic seizures, reduces muscle spasticity and pain in patients suffering from multiple sclerosis, and moreover has a beneficial effect on the immune system, why should we officially ban it!?
in writing. it's not just china's economy that's growing at a dizzying rate. it's no secret that for years, this country has been investing a lot of money in the development of science, including medicine. it is also a fact that many of these alleged discoveries or new treatments for various diseases are difficult to verify by the broad world of science. this is also true of the announcement by chinese researcher he jiankui that for the first time, embryonic genome editing had been used to eliminate the possibility of hiv infection and that twins had been born as a result. the fact that this experiment was not confirmed does not change the fact that the whole world has begun to watch with concern and outrage the research being conducted in china that crosses all established ethical boundaries. i am glad that the european parliament has taken up this debate, because it is high time to move the discussion from the world of science to the world of people. altering the human genome and experimenting on humans is no longer science fiction. there's a very fine line between finding life-saving treatments in the field of genetic engineering and designing a human being. we cannot escape this difficult debate, which is why we must start it as soon as possible and spread it among our citizens. at stake are health, human dignity and the future of future generations.
madam president! over the past three years, the member states of the european union have taken the lead in the ongoing process of addressing the challenges of achieving the sustainable development goals, such as ensuring coherence with other international commitments, working on the establishment of indicators and monitoring mechanisms, or supporting developing countries. the publication of the commission's analysis paper 'towards a sustainable europe by 2030' which sets out three scenarios for how the european union can continue to achieve the sustainable development goals is therefore to be welcomed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. in my view, only the first scenario presented in the document, which refers to a transversal strategy, would be a step forward in the current situation. this is an ambitious and complex scenario which will require a coherent approach from the eu countries to achieve the objectives. i hope, therefore, that the analysis and strategy paper, which the commission has assured us will be ready in april this year, will be taken as a significant signal to the new college of commissioners and parliament.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! progress towards the eu's sustainable development goals has been good, especially in the fight against poverty and health promotion. it's not bad compared to other parts of the globe. however, being a leader should not make us complacent, but rather obliges us to set out further actions towards the full achievement of the objectives. in the coming years, we will face major challenges in the management of natural resources, the transition to a circular economy and energy efficiency. to develop and implement good solutions, we need cooperation at both international and local levels, involving the commission, governments, but also ngos and businesses. the new strategic plan for the european union should set out the lines of action and indicate the tools for these actors to implement them.
the following persons are hereby appointed as members of the tran advisory committee: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the transport committee agreed with the main objective of the project, which is to reduce the bureaucracy involved in the spending and settlement of european funds. however, we have sent a clear signal that we do not agree with the major cuts in cohesion policy proposed by the commission, especially in infrastructure investment. the transport committee also expressed its strong support for maintaining the principle of allocating the total amount of funds transferred from the cohesion fund to the connecting europe facility to national envelopes. this is an additional incentive for countries that use their allocations efficiently and quickly. the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties, including from the polish authorities, which have been taken into account in the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. it is efficiency in achieving cohesion policy objectives - not current political sympathies or ideology - that should be the main criterion for allocating european funds. i regret that this report does not maintain the right proportions in this area.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. the impact of cohesion policy on the development of the european union, including my country and the region of lower silesia, has been clearly positive so far. european funds have had an impact on growth and the labour market. i appreciate the report's commitment to a pragmatic approach to the allocation of funds. the polish delegation will therefore support the report. i would like to emphasize that i do not agree with attempts to politicize the criteria for allocating funds, which is unfortunately very clear in the report. cohesion policy cannot be an attempt to influence the sovereign decisions of national authorities. its aim should be to reduce development disparities, not to exert pressure. that is why i am opposed to the document's attempts to impose social, migration, energy and undefined rule of law policies on countries.
mr. chairman, please! i support the view expressed in the report that it is important for the future of the citizens of the european union that cohesion policy remains the main investment policy of the union and that its funding in the period 2021-2027 has been maintained at least at the level of the programming period 2014-2020. however, new financing for other areas of union action or programmes should not be made as provided for in one of the amendments at the expense of the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund. in my opinion, this is unacceptable. the commission's proposal to transfer eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund to the cef is totally unacceptable. this will hit the poorest regions of the union. it is therefore crucial to adopt the amendment which reduces this amount to eur 4 billion. i am strongly opposed to raising climate targets and aligning energy, transport and social policies. i believe that this could lead to a cooling of the economies of the member states and, consequently, to an economic crisis in the community.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by saying that i am pleased that the draft framework regulation on cohesion policy funds includes the points that we have regularly asked for in the committee on regional development, such as increased flexibility or reducing unnecessary burdens for beneficiaries and managers. i also think it is important to link cohesion policy more closely to the european semester. i am also pleased to see the envelope for european territorial cooperation increased to 3%, which has already proven its effectiveness in increasing cohesion and stimulating cooperation between regions. however, i do not agree with the proposal to transfer eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund to the cef. i believe that this transfer should be proportionate to the cuts made in the cohesion fund and therefore reflect the amount of eur 4 billion proposed by the committee on regional development.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to two issues that are important to me. firstly, the agreement in this chamber on the importance of the structural funds, which i welcome. the second issue did not come up, which is why i'm speaking up to call for investment in culture, in the creative industries. that's where the various bureaucratic and financial barriers are, and the lack of flexibility is the most painful, the most painful. please note that decisions on investments in culture are most often made by small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of the size of the financial resources the commitment. so it's very important that culture is as free as possible from these bureaucratic constraints, because that's where it's most painful and most costly.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to make a contribution to the discussion on the fair taxation for a just society, which is a very important topic for all of us. a year ago the european parliament had a topical debate on a similar question. this proves that we want, and we have to address tax issues on several occasions. while the eu needs to guarantee the prosperity and well-being of its citizens, collecting tax remains one of the key means through which governments are able to address poverty and inequality at national level. some may say that the eu could do more in the area of taxation, but i’d like to recall the progress that has been achieved so far over the last few years in this area, and we assure you that the romanian presidency will continue work in this direction. allow me to recall first of all the anti-tax avoidance directive, which is a major success in the eu, providing for a comprehensive framework of anti-abuse measures aimed at ensuring that taxation will occur where value is created. there were also four significant extensions of the scope of administrative cooperation in the area of direct and indirect taxation. tax rulings issued to companies will not be a secret anymore. tax authorities are now able to receive and exchange information on country-by-country reports. administrative cooperation in the area of vat was also reinforced. fair taxation also depends on international cooperation. as you are aware, global cooperation is key to combating base erosion and profit-shifting. for the eu, the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions and the work at the oecd level on digital economy taxation are two examples of successful international cooperation that has been established and that is contributing to the objective of fair taxation. firstly, on the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. aggressive tax planning through the offshore system is detrimental to fair taxation and to a just society. however, all countries are free to adopt the tax policy that suits their specific needs. tax policy is one of the key elements of national economy policy and each country has the right to choose tax incentives to make its economy more attractive. but when tax incentives are harmful, others should be free to adopt appropriate counter-measures. the eu member states operating through the code of conduct group were able to have a contribution to changing the behaviour of most of the tax havens. the council has always stated that listing countries is not an objective in itself, and that most fundamental is that jurisdictions which are key partners of the eu share the same standards of tax transparency and good tax governance. most of the more than 90 jurisdictions which were invited for a dialogue, and which are important partners for the eu, are adhering to the standards common to eu member states. i think this is a major achievement, and this work will continue. more jurisdictions will be invited to engage in a similar dialogue in the near future. secondly, on the digital economy, eu member states are working closely with the oecd to find a global and comprehensive solution to the challenges brought about by the digitalisation of the economy. a broad approach is needed, examining the key aspects relevant to combating base erosion and profit-shifting, such as where tax should be paid and how much. the eu is working hard on an interim solution. the digital services tax directive would fill the gap while the long-term solution is being negotiated. we are likewise acting in the domain of vat, where major progress has been achieved. besides significant improvements to the current system of vat, the council has now started its work on the definition system and on the definitive system. i am fully confident that member states will agree on a compromise. everyone agrees that the eu needs a better system of vat but a lot of technical work is required. i could continue with many other examples of good and promising work that are ongoing in the area of taxation. to conclude, i will stress the need for an honest debate on tax issues, and i am glad that we have a contribution to that today.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, hello to all, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to debate together again on a subject which is very dear to me, and to us, that of tax justice. it is almost five years since we took office and we are approaching the end of our term of office, both for parliament and for the commission. the time for proposals is coming to an end and it is time to assess the progress we have made towards tax justice in the european union. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament, by thanking all of you for your support throughout this mandate. our two institutions have become natural allies in the fight against fraud and tax optimisation. we have exchanged very regularly, here and in brussels, in the context of hearings and various special committees (tax and pana), and the reports you have published have fed our discussions and reflections on tax justice. it was absolutely imperative to act to strengthen tax justice in the european union. in recent years, repeated scandals have exposed the shortcomings of our tax rules, which are clearly incapable of combating fraud and tax optimisation. in addition to the shortfall in our public finances, which is estimated at between 50 and 70 billion a year in the european union for vat alone, these scandals have given rise to a legitimate feeling of injustice among european citizens, who have asked us to react. we have heard their call and put tax justice at the top of the european agenda; i am convinced that we have put the european union at the forefront of this fight. since 2014, we have succeeded in getting 14 proposals adopted, including eight on fraud and tax optimisation. despite the lack of unanimity, this is more than in the last 20 years. our action has been based on three priorities. the first pillar of tax justice has been transparency. the lack of information is always, as you will have noticed, at the heart of tax scandals. fraudsters play on the culture of secrecy, the grey area that surrounds tax practices, and so i have acted to put an end to tax opacity in europe. perhaps our most emblematic proposal is the obligation of transparency for tax intermediaries. we are talking here about banks, law firms or consultancies, which are often the main architects of tax optimisation and which sell their clients tax schemes that sometimes border on legality. the directive will oblige tax intermediaries, as of 2020, to submit their tax planning schemes to their national tax administrations. the aim is not to monitor for punishment, but to give tax administrations the means to identify and correct shortcomings in their legislation. then we abolished the banking secrecy of the european union. the various tax scandals - i am thinking in particular of the recent revelations known as 'cumex' - have shown that certain companies, or certain taxpayers, took advantage of the lack of coordination between tax administrations to avoid paying taxes, and this had to be remedied. as of 2014, we have therefore made the exchange of information between tax administrations in europe a general practice and it is now mandatory and automatic in the vast majority of cases: each member state must transmit to all the others the essential information on accounts, on tax agreements between states and companies, and on taxes paid by multinationals in each country. finally, transparency requires the exchange of information, but also a stronger dialogue between member states on their tax practices and, as you know, the use of taxation as a means of attracting the wealthiest businesses and taxpayers is not unique to a few islands here and there. some countries in the union, let us not be afraid to say, advocate a fiscal framework in which tax competition is a tool for competitiveness. and while tax competition is legal, unfair competition is not, or rather should not be. we have tackled this problem head-on. last march, the commission identified for the first time seven member states whose tax systems are being used in the context of, say, aggressive tax optimisation schemes. it was a difficult process, but it was necessary because as friends, we have to tell each other everything. the aim is not to punish, not to stigmatise, but to help create a fair and modern tax framework that ensures europe's global competitiveness, while protecting the interests of europe's 500 million citizens. the second pillar of my action for tax justice has been the strengthening of international cooperation. we have long known that tax havens around the world are the essential relays for tax fraud and tax optimisation. in response, the 28 finance ministers adopted, for the first time, a blacklist of tax havens around the world. many were sceptical, many doubted the effectiveness and sometimes even the sincerity of our approach. however, a few months later it is clear that the european voice has been heard. almost all of the identified jurisdictions have made, and this was the aim, specific and credible commitments to move off the blacklist. the quality of a blacklist is not judged by its length, but by the efforts made to avoid being included. and i am continuing the discussion with third countries. i meet very regularly with many prime ministers and ministers who have never stepped foot in the door of the commission simply because they are afraid of the blacklisting process. it is extremely effective and we will present the results in detail. the european union has also established itself as a world leader in tax good governance. it was the first to adopt the oecd measures known as beps. it has translated them into its legislation, in the atad 1 and also, most importantly, atad 2 anti-tax evasion directives. we participate in the work of the oecd and the g20. today i am particularly interested in the proposals of the oecd working group, published at the end of january, concerning the revision of the rules on income taxation and the introduction, which i believe, of an effective minimum rate. we must move forward on this subject, we must follow these reflections very closely. the third and final pillar of my action for tax justice has been the modernisation of european tax rules. i realised early on that the obsolescence of european tax rules was creating intolerable situations of tax injustice and inequality. i have therefore embarked on a major project to modernise the european tax framework. the main aspects of this modernisation were, firstly, the definitive vat system, which could make it possible, i repeat, to put an end to crossborder tax evasion amounting to 50 billion a year and which would considerably simplify the lives of our companies; and secondly, the common consolidated corporate tax base, which would allow companies to operate in the single market as simply as within a single country, is also a very big project. another important element of my proposal is the taxation of digital activities. today, the profits of digital businesses, although huge, are taxed little or not at all in the european union. this is clearly unacceptable, and i have therefore put forward two proposals to ensure fair taxation of the digital economy in the european union. the first is to modernise the rules on corporation tax by introducing the concept of digital presence. and it will become even more important now that the oecd is looking for global standards. the second is the introduction of a temporary tax on the turnover generated by certain digital activities in the union. the commission's proposal has been on the table for ten months now and although we have succeeded in convincing a large majority of member states, namely 25 out of 28, a handful of reluctant member states are still blocking the way, and i regret that. on the one hand, because our fellow citizens expect us to put an end to this blatant injustice, and on the other hand, because some member states, including france, spain and the united kingdom, which is still a member of the european union, are beginning to move forward on their own. and it is a risk to the integrity of our single market. i would like to conclude with a further consideration. the 'digitax' case illustrates the limits of unanimity. i hope we will have an agreement in march. the romanian presidency is working on this, i thank it, but i know it is complicated. if unanimity is overwhelming when it comes to reacting to tax scandals and when public pressure is strong, it can paralyse when it comes to structural reforms (energy tax, climate change, digitax, financial transaction tax, consolidated common base, vat). that is why i have proposed here in the european parliament in strasbourg that qualified majority voting should be introduced in tax matters, by means of the bridge clauses which make it possible to transfer to qualified majority voting those areas where decisions are taken by the member states unanimously. in concrete terms, this would allow the european union to react more quickly and more effectively and would, in future, strengthen the democratic legitimacy of tax decisions taken in the european union. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware that if the decision to move to qualified majority voting is taken, the european parliament will be a co-legislator and the interests of all europeans will be better represented. this seems important to me at a time when the desire for representation and the thirst for democracy among europeans are so strong. that is why - i know there are elections coming - i would modestly suggest to the political parties to look at this question: if there were a very large majority here tomorrow, in all the seats, to demand this passage, it would change the game. and some of the ministers i saw yesterday or at ecofin, who were very reluctant, could not ignore it. finally, it would broaden the scope of tax policy in europe. we could pursue broader social objectives, such as environmental protection, by taxing polluting activities or regulating financial markets or taxing financial transactions. i call on the european parliament to take up this proposal frankly, to keep the debate going - it will not end now - because it is also a way for this institution to strengthen its authority. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i think is a very useful one. i regret today that we did not make full use of it, even though the need for justice is growing stronger among many europeans, four months before elections, the importance of which we all know, i call on the member states to take up these issues to send a strong signal to our fellow citizens and convince them, if necessary, even more of the usefulness of europe. but here we have a good case of europe's usefulness: without europe we cannot fight against tax fraud and evasion, and europe has shown that it can be an effective instrument. let us continue in this direction, and thank you for your attention and support.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, fair and effective taxation has been one of the key policy priorities for the eu over the last several years. we have adopted a series of legislative acts that target tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud. we firmly believe that taxes have to be paid where the value is created and that they have to be paid promptly and in full. however, in spite of these efforts, the situation is still far from perfect. globalisation and rapid technological change have opened ample ways for evading and avoiding taxes, especially for very large transnational companies, digital firms, and also when it comes to vat on transactions in the eu. revenue losses incurred by national budgets due to those tax abuses are estimated in hundreds of billions of euros annually. we must not tolerate this situation. our citizens expect us to take decisive actions against these malpractices. first, we have to fully enforce the existing legislation on a mandatory and automatic country-by-country reporting. second, we have to take a tough stance on non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, including tax havens, and intensify efforts at oecd level to come up with a global solution. third, fair taxation of digital companies needs to be implemented. fourth, i call on parliament and the council to urgently arrive at a common position on common corporate tax base (cctb) and common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) files. finally, vat fraud has to be effectively tackled with a combination of national and eu measures such as single electronic invoicing systems, split payments and automatic exchange of information.
mr. chairman, please! i did! taxation should be fair, small, simple taxes, just to maintain the structure of the state, to ensure security and order. what is the union doing? he fights every country that has low taxes. he's charging a huge tax on energy, fuel. he's paying a bribe to his monstrous administration. it creates complicated and stupid laws that cause the growth of bureaucracy and the enslavement of citizens. today, the honest labor of the people of europe is the livelihood of the lazy, the smart, the bureaucracy and the millions of immigrants who are brought to europe on free allowances. today's european union is a bloodsucker, sucking most of the european citizens' earnings and willingness to work.
mr. chairman, please! i must say that i was more than satisfied with the commissioner's speech. first of all, because he was not limited to this issue, but was able to show more honestly what it looks like in the system of various financial obligations in europe. what do i want to draw attention to? first of all, i don't believe very much in the idea of creating a perfect, universal, fair, honest tax system. but i do believe that that should be our goal, and i think a lot of the voices in this room were going for that. what are the chances of achieving this fundamental goal? it's a big one under three conditions, four maybe. first, the fewer the gaps, the various tax differences in europe, the better. secondly, taxes should be universal and inevitable, so that automaticity will be in favor of rationality. that's what i'm trying to point out.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i, like my predecessors, ask you to refer the document to the committee on transport, pursuant to rule 59a, in order to open interinstitutional negotiations. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! we do not want europe to be a battleground for the great powers, but we cannot blindly believe that every good intention will come to fruition. nor can we leave the united states sole responsibility for our security if we are aware of russia's aggressive policy, and the principle of russia's policy is always to probe the resilience of opponents - those whom they designate as their opponents. if we do not respond, we cannot guarantee that russia will withdraw from actions that destabilize security or threaten peace. in this situation, where our allies consider it necessary to declare the treaty inoperative, all that remains for us is to show solidarity as allies and to respond adequately to the threats that russia poses on a daily basis. recently we have seen the pressure to renounce independence by belarus. we are not doing anything beyond resolutions, and solidarity in this case does not cost much money.
mr. chairman, please! questioning security is not done through words, it's done through facts, hard facts. but it's also the other way around. we cannot guarantee security with words, but with an adequate response through facts, through a minimum of treaties, through specific agreements. the inf treaty is no longer in force, but it is no longer in force primarily because one of the parties - in short - has not complied with it. the other party, the united states, by withdrawing from the agreement, is trying to adapt to a particular situation. i want to make it clear that in order to restore security, especially the security we are talking about in europe, we need hard facts, agreements, certain treaties, but also, in some cases, unfortunately, stronger facts, in order to force the other side - in this case russia - to simply accept these treaties. and that's what i'm calling for.
mr. chairman, please! i see big brother couldn't sleep last night, that he's missing something else, and now big brother's gonna be watching foreign investment. he'll be monitoring foreign investment in various countries. he's been meddling in things that have been going well without him. now, a malicious person might think that maybe the european commission is envious of the ability of the member states, the member state governments, to take bribes. of course, i'm not that kind of a malicious suspicious person, but why give it away? i wouldn't think such bad things about the commission even in a fever, but why give bad people an excuse to think such things before the election? so i think that the commissioner - because someone who is also suspicious might think that the commissioners can influence the smaller member states in this way, discourage investment, drive investment out of some countries, to make such unrepeatable proposals to investors to invest instead of in this country, but in another country. so i think it's a tool of the most protectionist kind and you recently lamented trump's policies and now you want to make stories like this here in your own country. the criteria for this justification are vague, this interference is vague, and the justification is completely non-obvious.
mr president, we live in dangerous times and we need to be fully aware of foreign investments coming into strategic sectors in the european union. it’s no longer about the growth of particular member states but more about the security of the european union. we cannot pretend that ownership does not matter and that foreign investment is always good. there are external dangers that we need to counteract better, and a risk with foreign investment in strategic sectors that we need to address because this can threaten or undermine national, european or even global security or public order. foreign investment is investment – which is good because it leads to economic stability, activity and jobs. moreover, foreign investment promotes the international exchange of capital, ideas, business strategies and technologies – which is good for the economy and for people. that’s why i welcome the appropriate balance between open investments and screening which was struck in the mr proust’s report.
mr. chairman, please! i must admit that when the commission is seeking new powers, i am not very enthusiastic and i always prefer that the powers which the commission has had so far be exercised to the best of its ability and not as a last resort. the situation is that, on the one hand, it is proposed that member states may maintain, amend or adopt new - i stress new - mechanisms for monitoring foreign direct investment. secondly, it is proposed to define minimum procedural requirements. to the happiness of the minimal. and thirdly, it is proposed to give the commission new powers - fortunately conditional - to monitor foreign direct investment. and what's important for happiness is to give opinions that are non-binding. what is safe comes at the end, which is to say that it confirms that the member states retain the final decision-making power. and that should be upheld and respected.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: road tolls are an important source of funding for infrastructure construction and upgrading. we fully support the objective of this directive, which is to standardise electronic toll systems so that specialist european electronic toll service providers offer road users on-board equipment compatible with electronic toll systems in the european union. the need for users to install many on-board devices in order to be able to move freely on european roads is a significant and costly obstacle that should be eliminated if possible. specific steps are also needed to enable the effective enforcement by the relevant national authorities of the payment of tolls by owners of vehicles registered in another member state. the ecr group considers that this report is an appropriate response to these challenges and will contribute to strengthening cooperation between member states in the field of road charging.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much. i also join in the appreciation of both the commissioner and the rapporteur. the situation today is that the version of the directive proposed today is fortunately not a matter of much controversy. however, it is worth asking why there are so many practical problems with implementing an efficient road charging system in europe. in my view, this is primarily due to the fact that the directive, which has been in force since 2004, is not only imprecise but also largely disconnected from economic reality. if these new proposals are not to remain on paper, then a market-based approach must prevail. the aim is to ensure that both road users and network managers benefit from this new system. then there's a chance that the law could be realized.
madam chairman! fellow workers! we have a good solution, thanks to the work we've done. i am very glad that in this case we do not have a new directive, but the possibility of amending the previous one. but two things will matter once she's in. first, there is the implementation system. on the one hand, we know very well that these anachronistic charging systems should be taken to the next level. they are expensive, they are inconvenient, and they also very often increase traffic jams, in short, before pick-up. but what is also important is that we keep in mind the compatibility, the coherence of the system, the comfort for all those who travel through smaller countries, because this transit can be really burdensome in many cases. and one of the things that i hope will be applied by the introduction of it systems, is simply the inevitability of having to pay these fees, of closing various loopholes.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. my dear colleagues! the european single market has been in existence for 30 years. it's our pride and joy. we say that this is the greatest achievement of european integration. in theory, there is also a principle of mutual recognition, but in practice this principle is not respected. about a quarter of products traded on the european single market are not covered by the rules on harmonisation of legislation and these products are regulated by individual member states in terms of standards, technical standards, packaging, appearance, composition and so on. unfortunately, this means that the single european market is not so uniform and that we are dealing with a fragmentation of markets. if we ask ourselves why europe has not produced great world champions, great corporations, one of the main reasons is that markets are simply very fragmented and it is difficult for european companies to spread their wings. that is why we should remove all these barriers and that is why i wanted to thank mr štefanec, who drew up this report, because this report is going in the right direction. we should remove barriers to the movement of goods because this will make european businesses more competitive internationally. i would like to put this to the commissioner and the council of the european union, who are not here, for consideration, but i hope that they will also hear this message.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i must admit that as rapporteur for the eec group i have mixed feelings about the text of the agreement. the biggest win in our negotiations is the european commission. it has achieved its objective of equalising cross-border charges in euro with domestic charges and thus further advancing the role of the euro as the default currency for cross-border money transfers for the whole union. another win is the european banking system, which has escaped a kind of guillotine, avoiding the need to apply the same transparency criteria for foreign exchange transactions as the providers of so-called dynamic currency conversion. however, the consumer who normally uses a bank transaction when paying with a card abroad and who does not receive information on the charges in a transparent way as he should, is never the winner. well, it's the council's stubbornness that my predecessor mentioned. maybe it's not that far. however, the gradual improvement in the transparency of transaction fees is to be welcomed. it is also hard to disagree that aligning fees for euro transfers with national payments will be a real help for non-euro area businesses. the ecr group will vote in favour of the regulation, although we are far from enthusiastic.
in writing. 150 million eu citizens and 6 million businesses operating in non-euro area countries pay much higher euro transfer fees than people and businesses in the euro area. this is unfair and should be changed so that payment service providers across the eu are required to charge the same fees for cross-border transactions in euro as for domestic payments in local currencies. for non-euro area countries, this will lead to cheaper transactions in euro, with savings for consumers and businesses estimated at around eur 1 billion per year. this will ensure a level playing field for businesses in and outside the euro area. the new rules will also protect consumers from excessive and arbitrary charges for currency conversion. when making payments in another currency, they shall be informed of the amount to be paid in the local currency and the currency in which the account is held. consumers will be informed of the amount to be paid in local currency and the invoice currency for each transaction, enabling them to make an informed choice. consumers will receive an electronic 'push' notification, such as a text message, an email or a notification via the payer's mobile or online application, about the applicable currency conversion fees. banks will not be able to charge customers for the notification service.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not sure. passenger transport by bus and coach is the most common and cheapest form of public transport. in many areas, especially rural areas, it is sometimes the only means of public transport. opening up the sector to cross-border competition is an important and necessary step that will have a positive impact on the quality, accessibility and price of such services. it is obviously necessary to safeguard the public interest by ensuring that public transport is properly controlled by national and local authorities, who will be able to react when the rules of free competition are violated to the detriment of passengers. i think that the report by mr zīle balances the potential benefits and risks of opening up the market for bus and coach services. it is also the right step in the context of our discussion on the future of road freight transport. we need more of this kind of legislation, which, instead of creating new barriers, opens up borders for the flow of services between member states. i hope that this is the spirit in which we will conclude our work on the mobility package.
madam president! the regulation in its current form, which we are discussing today, is a balanced response to market needs and allows companies providing passenger transport services to exploit the potential of the internal market more fully. further opening of transport markets can only strengthen the international transport services segment, which will benefit passengers in particular. this regulation will make it possible to be more competitive, and - we know this from experience - when there is competition, companies offer better quality services for less money, so passengers will absolutely benefit from this. but i cannot help but mention a certain dissonance. and i am very pleased that we are concerned about the liberalisation of the internal market in passenger transport. but what about the transport of goods? my colleague here in germany, mr koch, whom i respect very much, said that we have no problem with cabotage. let's not discriminate. so i hope that the same response will be for the number one mobility package, that we will liberalise the market always and everywhere for everyone, and not just when one country has a dominant position.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not sure. the future of inland navigation in the european union depends primarily on the amount of money that will be invested in the coming years. we need modern infrastructure that will combine the potential of inland waterways with other modes of transport. the future is multimodal, especially ports and transhipment terminals, where goods transported by water can be picked up and transported further and in another way. i would like to see one of these multimodal terminals in bydgoszcz, which is located at the intersection of the international waterways e40 and e70 and in the immediate vicinity of the baltic-adriatic and north-baltic sea corridors. however, such an investment will require appropriate support from the european union in addition to cooperation between national authorities and the private sector. it is precisely to implement such modern and ambitious projects that the commission should provide adequate funding for the continuation of the naiades project. inland transport deserves more attention from us. the next budgetary perspective is a great opportunity to find more money for member states to do this too. this is the third transport debate today, commissioner, and i agree with you on all three, but i'm not convinced by your mobility package.
in writing. the potential of inland waterway transport remains largely untapped, even though it is a transport mode that is part of the eu's strategy for alternative transport modes. inland navigation is an essential element of the multimodal transport system, ensuring the efficient operation of maritime ports and their inland facilities, and playing an increasing role in the operation of urban centres and industrial centres. the construction of a system of tourist ports, harbours, customs piers, together with a unified information and identification system for the e70 wmd in the warmia and mazury region, will strengthen the economic and social potential of up to eleven cities in parts of my region. this is to modernise the fleet, develop digital systems, improve the skills of the inland waterway sector and increase the competitiveness of the inland waterway transport market through investment in new and existing infrastructure to further develop the trans-european network. these actions require securing adequate project financing and upgrading the ten-t network. warmia and mazury is a region with enormous potential which could be fully unlocked by the renewal and expansion of waterways, which will not only provide better communications but also raise the tourist values of parts of my region. the mierzei wiślana trench is one of the strategic investments, the implementation of which will allow the port of elbląg to become independent, and will also connect the gulf of gdańsk with the wiślana bay. the project will also improve security in this part of the country.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i agree with everyone who said that this is a very important subject, a very important debate. i would even have welcomed this debate slightly earlier in the day, with the opportunity to have slightly more people in the chamber, because while we may be discussing technology that is not yet part of our everyday lives, it soon will be. and the fact that it will form the backbone infrastructure connecting everything means that we now have to think very seriously about how to get security right from the outset, from the start. although 5g has, for understandable reasons, attracted the most attention in recent weeks, it’s not the only thing we need to be thinking about. storing data in the cloud and artificial intelligence open up huge opportunities to make use of, or to abuse, huge volumes of personal data, to give just one other example. these issues raise challenges around national and eu—level decision—making, which won’t – let’s be frank – necessarily be easy to resolve. trying to protect everything won’t work. we need to decide what really matters, what is core in terms of the digital ecosystem, and whether greater transparency around suppliers, supply chains and foreign investment is enough to offset the security risks. it may be that some pieces of backbone digital infrastructure are simply too critical for us to risk. these issues are also inherently geopolitical. so i think the solutions need to reflect our – europe’s – particular perspective based around keeping markets open and trade fair. security concerns are not an excuse for arbitrary protectionism but, equally, we can’t ignore those concerns. we need to think strategically around these issues of security. as far as the commission is concerned, we take these issues very seriously. we will be working on them, and i look forward to continuing our cooperative work with you on this whole range of issues.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i think this has been a very useful debate, and i would like to assure everyone that the presidency of romania of the council will keep this issue in mind in future debates in the council. we also took note, in particular, of what the commission has said here, and let me also assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attaches great importance to preserving cybersecurity, a matter of the highest political priority and a constant topic of attention.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jørn dohrmann on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport within and outside the eu (2018/2110 (ini)) (a8-0057/2019).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. first of all, i would like to thank the author of the report, mr dohrmann, and his colleagues for their excellent work. at the same time, i would like to recall that in december 2012 parliament adopted a resolution by mr janusz wojciechowski, currently a member of the eto, calling on the commission to enforce uniform conditions for the transport of animals throughout the union. he also called on the commission to reduce the transport time for animals destined for slaughter to eight hours. unfortunately, progress in implementing the 2005 council regulation on the prevention of unnecessary suffering of animals during transport is insufficient in all member states to date. i support the rapporteur's call for the commission to review the regulation and to specify the requirements for the transport of animals. moreover, the commission should ensure that the provisions of the regulation are enforced and implemented in a harmonised and uniform manner throughout the union, in particular as regards the ability of animals to travel. the polish delegation to the ecr will support this report.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has the highest standards of animal welfare in the world, including animal transport. they have been rooted for many years in the common agricultural policy, which makes the payment of subsidies to farmers conditional on their being paid. of course, this does not mean that the situation is perfect and that abuse does not occur. however, a clear distinction should be made between the responsibility of breeders and that of animal transport companies. animal welfare rules must be respected both in breeding and transport. in transport, we should increase the requirements for the conditions under which animals are transported, which affect or condition the transport time. we must therefore strengthen the control system and punish those who do not comply with the standards for transporting animals.
mr. chairman, please! every time the subject of animal transport is raised, arguments are made that some member states are not making progress in implementing the regulation. the focus should therefore not be on the creation of ideological rules, which are often unworkable, but on the creation and enforcement of practical rules that will respond to the needs of today's animal transport market and their welfare in general. i regard paragraphs 59, 63, 77, 83 and 88 of our report as such unenforceable provisions. ladies and gentlemen! farmers cannot be made responsible for transporting animals. farmers raise and care for animals. it's their source of income. normally, animals are transported by farmers only within their own holdings. the rapporteur said: 'it is time to support animals'. we must support the animals, of course, but above all we must support the farmers who raise them, and we must also support and create real regulations to enable the normal transport of animals throughout europe.
mr. chairman, please! 26 pages you've devoted to providing pigs with a sympathetic path to slaughter. of course, we have driver's licenses, required road checks, reduced transportation to eight hours. people are driving longer. you can't enforce the laws you have, and you want to make new ones. this is typical here for the state, for the european union. you create the problem by first banning slaughter on the spot, regulating slaughterhouses, making regulations that make these slaughterhouses centralized and therefore have to be transported far away, and then you fight the effects of your own regulations in the form of long transportation of animals and make further regulations that they will not be able to enforce either. who's saying that, anyway? this is coming from people who have barbaric laws in their country that allow the murder of unborn children and such barbarians are going to lecture us about transporting animals? no, it won't. you call a baby a clump of cells, and a pig not a sausage material for you, but some sentient being?! think about your priorities, people. someone said you're gonna be a big supporter of animals. so i hope that the animals will vote for those who do in the next election.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to the honourable members’ contributions and i am grateful for the various insights – and the sometimes very emotional speeches. let me repeat part of my own speech because, in my introduction, i talked about various ‘issues’ but ms hazekamp quoted me in a different way. i repeat: when the court of auditors presented its report at last december’s animal welfare intergroup meeting, it was clear that, despite progress achieved, there are issues that need to be addressed. i did not say it was 100% or that we are ok. why quote what i said in a different way? you know, i like the very simple rule ‘don’t lie’! and it is clear. we have had meetings and we have discussed the issues that were raised here, about croatian ports and so on, and we are following the situation and having dialogues with operators. why are you exaggerating the situation, ms hazekamp? of course i know that now is the time of the european elections and, yes, from an election point of view, your speech was quite good. in recent meetings we have had ongoing exchanges on the current animal welfare situation and, whilst i am proud of the progress we are all making, i am aware that we need to do more. we have no chance to say ‘job done’. no. the job has not been done. i am now very worried about criminal activity – about crime and fraud – and you can see new examples of this. we need to discuss penalties and other issues, of course. but don’t ignore the situation at the commission, where we are doing a lot in the area of animal welfare. the commission’s number one priority in this area is, and will remain, better enforcement. i repeat, better enforcement. and we will continue: it is not sufficient to have a good legal framework to protect our animals if we do not ensure it is correctly applied. however, the commission cannot achieve better implementation and enforcement by working alone. it is up to member states and operators: and, of course, i invite members of the european parliament to discuss these issues with your respective countries’ governments. you have a good opportunity to organise debates at different levels. we are also debating these issues at the eu animal welfare platform, and we have achieved many steps forward. please read once again mr wojciechowski’s report on animal welfare from the court of auditors. it takes an objective view both of certain improvements and also with regard to where we can do more. that is clear. but all of us – the commission, member states and representatives of civil society – must work together. it is a pity that, after the emotional speeches, no one from the green group is in the chamber. it would be good to continue our conversation, and not just to deliver emotional speeches. (applause) i am pleased that this report makes recommendations to both the commission and member states. i strongly believe we share the same goal: to ensure that animals, as sentient beings, do not suffer unnecessarily. of course it’s true that we need to do more. but let us continue to work to achieve this – not blaming and shaming all the time. that is not the constructive way. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am critical of the protection of animals during transport within and outside the eu. in my view, it is unacceptable that 13 years after the entry into force of the regulation on this subject, there are still very many cases of ill-treatment of animals during transport, which cause suffering to animals and endanger their health, but also to humans. the most frequent violations of the rules in force are overcrowding and insufficient space for animals during transport, failure to observe watering and feeding periods and travel times. these phenomena are highly disturbing. i call on the european commission and its subordinate services to strictly enforce the rules in force.
the next item is the report by virginie rozière, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on enhancing the competitiveness of the internal market through the deepening and governance of the eu customs union (2018/2109 (ini)) (a8-0059/2019).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the customs union is one of the foundations of the european union as such. its efficient operation has a fundamental impact on the european union's finances, on the activities of businesses, on consumer safety, which is very important, but also on the european union's external trade with third countries, and - as this report is about - on competition, which is internal. it is therefore clear that we as the european parliament must not only look at the perceived efficiency of the functioning of the customs union, but also encourage the commission to modernise it. there are certainly some important challenges in this area. the first one, which has been talked about a lot here, is modern information technology. we're running late here. they must be eliminated, but i agree with the commissioner that the safety of new systems is the absolute condition, not the timing of their introduction. another issue is the unification of interpretation in the member states. we must have the same approach to the customs union throughout the union. and the last point, mr. chairman, which is obvious, but worth mentioning, is that the biggest challenge today is brexit. this will be a test for the european union in terms of customs union.
in writing. the customs union is one of the eu's earliest achievements and is essential to guaranteeing the eu's credibility and negotiating position in the area of trade agreements. in practice, the customs union means that the customs authorities of all 28 eu member states work together as if they were one single authority. they shall apply the same customs tariffs to goods imported into their territory from abroad and shall not apply tariffs on the internal market. the eu's single market would be impossible to achieve without the abolition of customs duties and the role played by the customs union in the supervision of imports and exports. standardisation of customs information and processes plays a key role in the harmonisation of controls, in particular with regard to phenomena such as misclassification and undervaluation of imported goods and misdeclaration of their origin. such errors are harmful to all economic operators, and in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises. customs authorities must strike the right balance between facilitating legitimate trade, customs controls protecting citizens, animals and the environment in europe, building consumer confidence in goods entering the internal market and the union's commercial interests. eu imports and exports amounted to eur 3 700 billion in 2017, and duties collected accounted for 15% of the eu budget.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the resolution of the european parliament on the political challenges and strategies for cancer in women and related coexisting diseases. this important document calls for the fight against cancer to be given priority in health policy and for a comprehensive union strategy against cancer diseases, and shows that despite the efforts made so far, further efforts are needed, including adequate diagnosis, treatment, but above all prevention, also for the mass and long-term use of hormonal contraception or hormonal stimulation associated with in vitro procedures in the context of so-called sexual and reproductive health. recent evidence suggests that long-term use of hormonal contraceptives may increase the risk of developing glioblastoma, as well as other types of cancer, in addition to the obvious effects of other harmful environmental factors that should be eliminated.
mr. chairman, please! as co-rapporteur, i voted in favour of the resolution on the use of cannabis, where the aim, from a medical point of view, was to carry out clinical trials with medicinal products based on cannabis, with appropriate resources allocated for this purpose. the resolution managed to clearly distinguish between medicinal cannabis products approved by regulatory authorities, medical marijuana not tested in clinical trials, and other uses of cannabis. it also called for the removal of regulatory barriers that hinder scientific research, while leaving member states free to adopt the necessary solutions, although it called for more research and the flow of information on this subject. it is good that the members of parliament rejected the amendments tabled at the last minute, because marijuana is not a hand-me-down salad, but a variety of highly addictive varieties prepared by various inventors, containing high concentrations of thc with trace amounts of protective cbd, which numbered 700 and even according to some sources 2300.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to support the report, but i couldn't. there's no reason why one person should forbid another person to eat something, to put something into their body. and for that reason, i didn't want to vote against legalizing marijuana, but on the other hand, legalization requires nothing more than repealing prohibition. what do we have here? again, this is our parliamentary chatter, typical of this institution: considering this, considering that, instructing to investigate this, not to investigate this, to allow this kind of marijuana. but why? who cares what you're thinking? just take the restraining order off. besides, why do we only allow one kind of marijuana and not another kind of marijuana? we hear things like, "my stomach, my business". so why is my stomach my business only when it's killing an unborn child, but if i want to eat something that someone else wants me to forbid, it's not my stomach, it's my business. and then all of a sudden i have to go to the doctor to get a prescription so he'll let me put something in my system. that is why i could not support this reworked and over-regulated report.
mr. chairman, please! while the european union is struggling with brexit, the influx of illegal immigrants, the banking crisis in many member states, the libe committee, chaired by mr moraes, is with a tenacity worthy of a better cause, dealing with the european parliament's rights of intersex people. in paragraph five of the resolution, it calls on the commission and the member states to increase funding for civil society organisations working with intersex people. in paragraph 11, she wants to force member states to promote the rights of intersex people, including children. i consider such practices unacceptable and that is why i voted against this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! in its resolution on the lgbti list of actions, paragraph 3, parliament calls on the commission to prioritise lgbti actions in its 2019-2024 programme. i think that to prioritize this is discriminatory, and on the other hand, you could ask why not prioritize heterosexuals. the eighth point is equally strange. this is another, i don't know which, lgbti resolution. the question is: does the european parliament really have no more important things to do than to deal with the sexual inclinations of certain people all the time?
mr. chairman, please! the naiades programme mentioned by the president aims to increase inland waterway transport and thus achieve a sustainable transport system for the european union. last december, the council stressed the need to exploit the potential of inland waterway transport more fully. this is to be made possible by the naiades iii programme, which is to be launched by the end of 2020. the resolution calls for adequate funding for the programme. in my speeches i have repeatedly stressed the importance of inland waterways, including the planned e40 waterway through my region, lublin. that is why i voted to adopt the motion for a resolution.
mr president, i think it has been made clear here how serious the problem of air quality is. if 400,000 people die a year or less, it doesn't matter, it's a huge problem, a huge problem for europe, and we have to deal with it. what is important and what needs to be said, and the commissioner has already said it, is that there is a revision of the directive which deals with the issue of outdoor air quality. i very much look forward to the report that is due, commissioner, this year, to see how this directive is working and where the commission therefore envisages improving it. it will probably be the work of the new commission that will come into office following the european elections. this should be a key task, as environmental issues will certainly be the subject of the election campaigns this spring, and the next commission should therefore take account of the evaluation of the current legislation and propose concrete solutions. but it should also be said that the current regulation, which - as most colleagues have said - is not sufficient, is not being implemented by all countries. according to the latest report, 18 member states are currently falling short of the emission limits that have already been set. and that is a big problem. we have some legislation that we want to improve, but we have to admit that the current legislation is not being fulfilled. and here i think that either we can go the way of going to the european court of justice and suing individual states, but that will take years and nothing will be resolved, or perhaps we need a stronger political dialogue between the member states and between the european commission and more encouragement for the member states to meet the limits that are already in place at this moment. if we come up with new, better legislation, but the member states don't implement it, we're still in the same problem that we have here. nearly half a million deaths a year due to polluted air. so please let the commission propose new changes, but also put pressure on the member states to fulfil what is already binding.
mr. chairman, please! among the many issues that need to be addressed are air pollution, together with the impact of climate change, and the deterioration of health, especially for people living in areas adjacent to airports. it has been shown that high concentrations of pm2.5 and tropospheric ozone emitted by airports in built-up areas kill 5,000 people within a 20-kilometer radius each year. the rapid development of air transport, especially in recent years, has had a negative impact both locally and globally. in addition to noise, the production of harmful dust, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, generates 2% of global greenhouse gas emissions, as evidenced by the world map of air travel, where the usa, western europe and asia with japan are the main destinations. the measures proposed include the introduction of new fuels, optimisation of flights, the installation of more efficient engines with structural changes in the construction of aircraft fuselages, but also, of course, the rules for the siting of airports.
mr. chairman, please! i think this parliament should be concerned with human affairs, not animal affairs. another such statement is laden with a great deal of hypocrisy, because animals also suffer when we kill them in the slaughterhouse. so, what, we're not eating meat because of that? if animals do not pay taxes, they have no representation and parliament should not be concerned with their rights.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the committee on terrorism, i draw attention to the many - and i stress the many - legal loopholes that exist in the european union regarding the security of citizens. i'm glad to see that one of those holes is being closed today. we shall, in fact, be voting on two legislative proposals on this matter, on this subject which has been described quite well. and i will. on the one hand, we're closing a loophole, but on the other hand, we're updating the registry, which is very important and very important for those of us who are involved in security to know. and third, we're going to eliminate some of the discrimination that we have right now. in my opinion, the entire work should be recognized and voted on by a clear majority.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european solidarity corps is an offer for young europeans, for young people. it builds on the experience gained in other projects that this project links together. it's very good -- it's good that it's going to simplify the bureaucracy, it's going to reduce the administrative costs, it's going to bring more clarity to these kinds of projects, and it's going to make all of the things that make up the framework of volunteering today more flexible. i would like to draw attention to two points which, from my point of view, are crucial. firstly, there is no doubt that this project needs to be promoted, that it needs to be well informed, that it needs to be made clear to young people in particular what it is, what it entails and what its prospects are. i am glad that this seven-year period has already been financed, that we have a budget, that we have a framework. but the practice - i stress - the practice of implementing this project is, in my view, the most important challenge today, it is the most important and it will determine whether this project will live up to the hopes that are placed in it. finally, i would like to thank my colleague šojdrová over 300 amendments could have ruined this document in the final. that is not what happened, it is a good document and we can safely vote on it tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also think that this certification is very important, although, as my colleague mentioned, it will be voluntary for now. however, the commission has the possibility to review the effectiveness of this voluntary certification and to evaluate it after a certain period of time. and the importance of cybersecurity, as we know, is huge. the data says so. as you know, there are about five billion internet-connected devices in households around the world. some predict that by 2021, this number will rise to fifteen billion. manufacturers are introducing new devices, new models of goods that are connected to the internet, but they haven't been able to install the right security. we know that a single home attack can already cause a lot of problems for homeowners, but at the same time, a multi-device attack can also be used by cybercriminals as a tool to attack the strategic infrastructure of the state. researchers at princeton university conducted simulations that showed that a sudden 30 percent jump in electricity demand could effectively shut down all generators in an area under attack, so home security is also linked to strategic security. the researchers say that it is enough to take over 90,000 air conditioners connected to the internet or 8,000 water heaters. so we certainly need better security, proper security, both for critical infrastructure and for household items.
mr. chairman, please! i'm going to go back to the beginning of our term -- five years ago, a lot of people in this room were dismissive of cybersecurity, or if they weren't dismissive, they were at least underestimating it. hybrid conflict, hybrid war, and terrorist threats have changed that perspective. today we're in a special situation, but i think in a good way. we're strengthening our institution and we're strengthening this institution budgetarily, we're strengthening this institution personally, but we're also strengthening it competently, which is very important and very important and it's worth appreciating. it's a shame about that time. it's a shame about that time because the world doesn't stand still. it's also evolving in all of these threats that we've talked about so much today. but it is worth supporting this report because it will be an important step forward in improving security in europe, and i wanted to thank and congratulate the rapporteur.
i can only express my satisfaction at having had the opportunity to listen to at least part of this debate, because i have the honour of chairing the european parliament's security working party, and i would like to thank commissioner king, through mr ansip, for his cooperation so far.
good evening, commissioner hogan, please be so kind as to take a seat. as you can see, our parliament works effectively on time.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the report of ms angelica niebler will take place on tuesday 12 march 2019 and the vote on the report of ms julia reda will take place on wednesday 13 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on unfair trading practices in business-to-business relationships in the food supply chain (com ((2018) 0173 c8-0139/2018 2018/0082 cod)) (a8-0309/2018).
mr. chairman, please! the polish thinker, stefan kisielewski, once said that socialism is a system in which heroically you fight problems that are unknown in any other system. and this discussion is a perfect example of that. it's like this: first, it starts with the fact that greedy governments try to collect as much tax as possible and therefore charge commissions on all the economic activity on their territory, and therefore they charge everyone with the obligation to record all this activity because they want to know how much they can squeeze out of everyone. this creates additional costs, business difficulties. it centralizes the market, it eliminates the smaller sellers, it introduces additional regulations that centralize the market, because centralization is convenient for the government, because it's easier for it to control it. the effect of this is ultimately to prohibit retail sales to farmers, weakening their bargaining power, resulting in unfavourable contracts and low purchase prices. the effect of this is not, as in our case, the withdrawal of these stupid regulations, but more regulations, so next time we meet to ask why agricultural prices went up. i can't wait to see it.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to invite my country friend to the discussion. maybe it'll clear up a lot of his problems. ladies and gentlemen! after many years of work by the committee on agriculture, we can finally announce that we have a european legal framework to combat unfair practices in the food supply chain. i would like to thank commissioner hogan for his proposal for a directive and rapporteur paolo de castro, the shadow rapporteurs, for their work, which has allowed the agreement to be drawn up and adopted in this term of office with exceptional speed. it is also necessary to mention mrs mcguinness, who three years ago prepared an opinion for our committee which was subsequently endorsed by the plenary. thank you to many, many other people. i want to point out one of the reasons why farmers are weak in the food chain, which is the high fragmentation of agricultural producers. it is estimated that less than 10% of farms are able to compete in economic size on the market. this is why it is so important for the improvement of market position to bring together agricultural producers through producer organisations and cooperatives. the large number of small farms does not facilitate the processes of creating organised economic structures, such as the production groups mentioned above. i would also like to raise the issue of the need for economic dialogue between the actors in the food chain. it seems that representatives of the agricultural, manufacturing and trade sectors talk more through the media than directly. i think that this task should be left to the european commission and parliament. finally, i would like to say that this directive is a major compromise that commissioner hogan has reached in the european commission. compromise, like compromise, doesn't always solve a lot of problems. we're off to a good start. finally, there are possibilities for national legislation which can go further and solve many problems. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. resolutions have been voted on many occasions in this parliament stating that the maintenance of small family farms is our priority here. you said a moment ago that the fragmentation of farms is the cause of the weak position of farmers. that's right, you're right. so how do you vote when parliament is passing such nonsense that it wants to maintain this inefficient structure of small farming?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yes, i've been dealing with this problem for a long time. i was the author of a report on small farms. small farms need to be supported. they have value. and at the same time, there's a process of concentration, which improves a lot, gives more opportunities to join larger entities that have more production. this may give them a greater impact on the market in terms of goods than very fragmented holdings. this is a process that is under way and we need to support small farms, but we also need to support them socially and develop commodity production.
in writing. on 19 december 2018, the austrian presidency and the european parliament reached an agreement on a directive to combat unfair trading practices in business-to-business relationships in the agricultural and food supply chain. the fundamental objective of the directive is to protect farmers, who are considered to be the most vulnerable actors in the food supply chain, from buyers who are much larger than they are. the directive will create a common european framework ensuring a minimum level of protection for farmers and other suppliers of agri-food products whose turnover does not exceed eur 350 million. the agreement covers food, cut flowers, pet food and animal feed. eight commercial practices will be completely prohibited, including: delay for perishable products, last-minute cancellation of orders, unilateral or retroactive changes to supply contracts, misuse of confidential information and retaliation or threat of retaliation against a supplier. all this is aimed at strengthening the position of smaller players (farmers) in the food supply chain.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, today we are discussing yet another trade agreement. it’s the last in this parliamentary term after japan and singapore. it warms my heart to see that we are opening our markets to high-standard trade. i have always spoken in favour of trade agreements as they boost trade, promote international competitiveness of our companies, as well as create opportunities for investments outside of the eu. i cannot stress enough the importance of the whole process. we should be proud that we now have over 70 preferential trade agreements in place. one thing is to stimulate economic growth, but we cannot forget about sharing our norms and values, as well as promoting social inclusion and environmental protection. i believe that this house should give its consent as fast as possible to this agreement so that we can focus on the implementation so that everyone can benefit from it as quickly as possible.
mr. chairman, please! i'm glad to see this resolution. my constituents in poland are very interested in the forestry issue in vietnam. people in my country listen to these debates with their faces just baked. half of them are for the cambodian quota reduction, half are against it, so now they're cheering our debate with their face on the pancakes. this is better than the champions league. it's really worth paying taxes to this parliament. but it's not just the voters - let's make a deal, let's not hide it - the whole world is listening to what the european union has to say in its next resolution. i'm glad there are 750 such wise men here, who know everything about everything, have something wise to say about everything, for them this world has no secrets, they have no phrase in their dictionaries like "i don't know". i realize i'm the one who's downplaying the level here. i realize that i can only shine a light reflected from you, but i'm still glad i have the opportunity. there's one request for the honey harvest in paraguay. polish voters are eagerly waiting for this. it didn't work this session, i hope it will work next session, so, bravo we're moving forward, i'm counting on it, we're pushing, great.
mr president, although, since 2012, nine million people from 28 countries have already signed a european citizens’ initiative (eci), a series of shortcomings still unfortunately impede the full potential of this instrument. i would like to underline that the updated eci will benefit from technological improvements, in particular for collecting signatures online and a collaborative platform. all information and the central collection system will be able to be accessed by people with disabilities, for example. what is important, however, is that the commission will now be able to partially register the initiative in cases where the commission only has the power to propose legislation. furthermore, the organisers will have six months after their registration to choose when to start collecting signatures. more flexibility should benefit smaller groups of organisers in particular. what is most important in this whole process is the fact that the commission will involve stakeholders in further development and improvements. this system will have superior standards and, most importantly, will be more user friendly. so we are looking forward to implementing all these new features because this is such a great instrument for our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. russia promises when it has to. and he doesn't keep his promises the moment he gains power. these words were spoken 100 years ago by the great pole, józef piłsudski. generations of poles and other nations in my part of europe have borne witness to this. in modern times, these words have been true in georgia after 2008, in ukraine after 2014, in the middle east, in the arctic, in russia to its own people, and in many, many other places. i support the report by sandra kalniete and thank you very much for your cooperation.
in writing. first of all, i would like to emphasise that russia has not implemented more than a thousand judgments of the european court of human rights. this shows that russia is not fulfilling the international obligations of its membership of the council of europe. the question then arises, does russia still want to be part of the civilized world? secondly, i am glad that the european parliament is clearly calling on the member states to end the so-called golden visa and passport programmes for the richest, which are also used by russian oligarchs. 'golden visas' are investor residence facilitation schemes that allow a third-country national to stay in a member state but also to travel freely within the schengen area. it is currently issued by 20 eu countries: bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, the czech republic, estonia, france, greece, spain, the netherlands, ireland, lithuania, luxembourg, latvia, malta, poland, portugal, romania, slovakia, the united kingdom and italy. in contrast, 'golden passports' are programmes that grant citizenship to investors on less stringent terms than usual, e.g. no physical presence or other actual ties to the country. the 'golden passports' are issued by bulgaria, malta and cyprus and cost between one and two million euros. golden visas and passports pose a threat to the eu as they create conditions conducive to money laundering, corruption and tax evasion and can undermine the effectiveness of international sanctions.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, the situation of christians has worsened. according to aid to the church in need, 200 million christians suffer from violent persecution, and 350 million suffer from discrimination. forty missionaries were killed in 2018. in january, we voted in strasbourg on the report on the union's guidelines and the mandate of the special envoy for the promotion of religious freedom outside the union. however, as christians living in the european union, we are also forced to defend ourselves, especially because of the regulations and documents issued by the un and the european parliament, promoting so-called sexual and reproductive health with the enforcement of childhood sexual education, the legalization of abortion, contraceptives and the acceptance of same-sex unions, which for catholics are unacceptable as contrary to nature and the lord god. the enforcement of such a law is marked by violence and persecution, which is why i call for freedom and respect for rights. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! on march 1, we celebrated the day of remembrance of the fallen soldiers in poland. they were soldiers of the polish underground who fought first against the nazi occupation and then for many years after the war resisted the communist regime imposed on us by the soviets, often with their lives. in this context, i would like to say that i am terribly ashamed that in our parliament communism is still taken seriously. in the 21st century, when national socialism was long after the war put out of circulation, out of the political life, communism is still taken seriously and the representatives of the communist party sit in this room and sit shamelessly, not as social outcasts but as representatives of a large political group. people like that shouldn't be shaking hands, and yet they're normally respected here. it's an insult to the memory of our ancestors who fought the communists. some have been victims of the most criminal system, the most criminal ideology in the history of mankind, which is communism.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we celebrate this parliament's unhealthy obsession with sex. once again, you've shown that you're completely detached from reality. the first speech has already shown that the average preschooler has more sense than the average member of this parliament. you have clear evidence that women are not applying to certain positions, or they are applying in the minority, and yet you think you know better, and yet you know that women want to, can, feel that women are better suited for this job than you know yourself. you want to force them to follow your crazy vision of gender equality, equality of everything with everything. they say women make up half the electorate. you say "so what?" there are also minors among the citizens of our countries. they have no representation in parliaments from the age of 21 they can run for parliament in most countries. so what? are these people being persecuted? are they being harmed because they're not in parliament? we have 120 drivers in parliament, and only two of them are women. so what? and we have most of the translators. then let's put the translators behind the wheel and let the drivers translate the speakers. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i didn't say there was a lack of intelligence in parliament, just a lack of common sense. i don't know how it went with the translation. but that's two different things. and the facts show that women are better suited for some jobs and worse for others. apparently they are better suited to the translation profession than men, because we have a female majority, and worse for the driver profession, because we have fewer female drivers. it's worse for executive positions, but better for childcare, for example. both sexes have different abilities, and you have to accept that. hello, earth! what is it?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we are debating today the inclusion of gender balance in the nomination of three candidates for key positions in the economic and monetary institutions of the european union. our parliament is only required to approve the mandates of the three candidates on the so-called 'short lists'. the group of european conservatives and reformists supports a gender balance in the selection of these candidates, but would also like to see a geographical balance. all candidates come from western european countries - that is, from the so-called "old union" - and there is no shortage of candidates with a lot of experience and competence for these positions in central and eastern europe. however, it should be borne in mind that all the selected candidates are appropriately qualified to perform these functions. therefore, i do not consider that gender is the sole and sufficient competence for filling these posts. as a side note, it is important to note that the european commission is composed of twenty-eight commissioners, nineteen of whom are men and only nine of whom are women. this is clear evidence of the lack of gender balance in one of the most important bodies of the european union. should the commission not start with itself?
the question asked by raising the blue card. we have statistics on youtube about who watches and you can easily see that the audience of political videos is 80-90 percent male and it's not because the evil sośnierz forbids women to watch political videos, it's just that women are not interested in politics. what are you going to do about it? are you going to tell women to get involved in politics? (the president cut off the speaker)
the question asked by raising the blue card. there was a question i asked, what are you going to do about the fact that women don't watch political videos on youtube?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i want to thank the prime minister very warmly for his speech and to begin by thanking him for this statement of clear and determined investigation into the murder of a slovak journalist. these are things that we have to respond to for obvious reasons. three issues are very important here. first, the concern expressed in the prime minister's speech not to divide europe into west and east, not to increase mistrust. this is all the more so because many of the problems europe faces are not the result of the experience of the countries of central and eastern europe, such as the threat to the stability of the euro area. second, to see regional integration as a component of wider integration. it's great that the prime minister mentioned the name of the forerunner of european integration, milan hodža. and finally, the battle to counter protectionism, the closing of markets to rich european countries, including competitiveness, at the expense of economic energy, especially the energy of the nations of central and eastern europe. these are indeed the areas on which the future of the union and its real development depend.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in order to survive, europe must be a community of destiny, and therefore as important as a sense of unity is a sense of respect for our individual experiences and for the character of the smaller communities we are creating, such as the community of peoples, the community of destiny and the community of culture of the peoples of central europe. i want to congratulate slovakia for defending and opposing the istanbul gender convention. in this case, some countries have gone to great lengths to protect their families, as bulgaria has done. and still one third of the countries of the european union have an independent position on this issue. i want to say that the position you take is important not only for slovakia and for the future of your families, but it is important for the survival of europe as it is. the acceptance of even those few nations who want to remain faithful to civilization, life and the family is a matter of survival for europe, and also for the survival of cooperation between our countries and peoples. because when the identity of nations is decriminalised, europe will really cease to exist.
prime minister! ladies and gentlemen! i have listened to a dozen heads of government in this room talk about the future of europe, and i must say that i found nothing in their speeches that was shocking or controversial. the opposite is true. there were compliments about the european institutions, the european parliament, our activities. but what worries me is the gap between the words that are spoken here and those that are being used for national policy. this expansion, in my estimation, is unfortunately destructive. this applies to all political groups. what is important to me is the clear declaration today to reduce these disparities, to reduce everything that does not fit into the debate on the values of the european union. do you see the problem? do you also take note of the way the visegrad group works to strengthen the european institutions? and does this reinforcement not occasionally raise some doubts in your mind?
madam president! the debate yesterday was very interesting and i was able to speak about the first report, the first part. however, there was no time to comment on this second very important issue, which is why today's title of the supplement - first of all, the most important, the most controversial issue - was the inclusion of dual nationals in the decisions on this report. i am very pleased that an agreement was reached on this matter at the end of 2018 and that today's vote was the result. i would also like to draw attention to a very important issue concerning the data of persons who not only have dual nationality, but also those who have so far escaped these decisions, which concern the register the register, as if there were none, of the criminal problems of different persons. for the sake of european security, the decisions that have been made today are, in my view, beneficial.
madam president! i want to focus on three things today. firstly, in this 2018-2020 perspective, i am talking about the budget, we have only indicative, i stress, indicative thresholds for the allocation of funds. it is very important that they be clarified. secondly, we do not have the right kind of promotion for this important new programme at the moment. and thirdly, the use of dynamic means of communication - i think of these social networks - is essential today in the implementation of this project. otherwise, this program will be a half-hit. and one last thing, and it's very important. we're talking about young people here. we're talking about the budget allocated to them. a renewed strategy is needed for the young generation to become the real subject of all the programmes that we are trying to include in the european solidarity corps at the moment.
madam president! the european solidarity corps is not only a great initiative, but also a beautiful and noble idea. it has moral, ethical, humanitarian, charitable, educational... this is very important, because it gives you the opportunity to develop your skills and to improve your professional skills. it supports people, regions, even countries, it gives the opportunity to participate it will give the opportunity to participate to as many as three hundred and fifty thousand people. it is no wonder that the vienna institute for innovation has rewarded this initiative and this project, which is why i supported this report.
madam president! on a very important cybersecurity issue, we've made up for lost time. i remind you that this matter was raised two years ago with good results, as it turns out. i would remind you that an agreement was reached at the trialogue meeting last december and as a result we were able to approve the document submitted in january this year in the itre committee. we voted on it today. i would point out that this standing mandate for the agency is relevant on one very important point. so, in addition to data collection, in addition to all these expert activities, for the first time, we had the ability to do operational tasks as well. and i'm pointing this out because in cybersecurity, efficiency, the ability to act, not just to gather information, is really the key element of building cybersecurity.
madam president! payment after thirty days of delivery, unilateral cancellation of contracts, unilateral or retroactive changes to the terms of contracts, demanding payment for the delivery of goods, demanding payment from the supplier for the loss or deterioration of goods, for storage, for promotion, for advertising, for display on shelves, as well as the obligation to accept without payment the return of unsold goods, the covering of discounts, et cetera, et cetera are just some examples of commercial practices considered to be unfair. it's good we're doing this. it is also good that it is a directive and not a regulation, so that member states have the flexibility to make their own decisions. we must also remember that there are always two sides to the contract and of course if one side is unfair to the other, especially the weaker and smaller, we must intervene, but also each case must be decided individually.
madam president! the european citizens' initiative is not only an instrument of democracy, but it is also a mechanism for bringing together the citizens of europe around an idea, around a cause, around a common goal, if only because to set up a citizens' committee, you need at least seven citizens, at least seven countries. and then, of course, collecting a million signatures. that's a great thing. of course, further liberalisation and facilitation is needed. we've introduced more support from the european commission for this, a central collection of signatures and many more. but it is very valuable to me that it is the european parliament that is debating the initiatives that will be tabled. it will be. that is why i support this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, our human rights policy should be based on a few simple principles. first, loyalty to those who support our rights. secondly, we must respect those who wish us peace. thirdly, respect for those who protect those for whom we have a special responsibility, such as christians in countries where they are in danger. the people should always be at the centre of this policy the right of people to live in peace and security, which is the basis of all human rights, and certainly not the animation of political conflicts. of course, europe should take humanitarian action, it should respond to injustice, but always remembering that it is not about spreading some kind of political universalism, but about defending specific people with an awareness of what our actions mean. we have the algeria problem today, maybe tomorrow we'll decide it. let's remember these rules.
mr. chairman, please! i'll start by saying that i don't believe in sanctions. i don't believe in sanctions as the only, exclusive tool, not as one of the elements of exerting a certain pressure. and so are resolutions. the more resolutions there are, the more they inflate and become ineffective. i am the chairman of the delegation for belarus and i know how important it is to use a range of tools to exert a certain pressure, a certain effect. first thing we need to do is talk. we need to maintain communication channels. we must also take account of the specificities of the countries to which we apply different types of instruments. in any case, i would like to say that we are against inflation in our resolutions and in our speeches, and that we are in favour of sanctions, which are combined with other elements, with other pressures, with educational elements, with communication elements, because only then will we have a real effect.
mr. chairman, please! we have a few pages of very nicely written text to pass. but this is not a plebiscite for a literary work the beauty of words does not shape political reality. politics is first and foremost the ability to build and use force. the european union is the slowest-growing region in the world today. turkey, on the other hand, is willing and able to build up its strength by fighting its enemies, both external and internal, with courage and brutality. the joy expressed in the proposed resolution at turkey's membership of nato is a manifestation of political naivete, since this month - march - there were joint military exercises by russian and turkish units in the black sea. there were over 40 turkish ships, and this summer, the latest russian anti-aircraft missile system is to be installed in turkey. there is the s-400 triumph system. so turkey begins to rebuild its ottoman empire. i hope we don't wake up. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the situation in venezuela is indeed dramatic. it's the drama of children, the drama of mothers, the drama of the elderly, the drama of entire families. but i want to make it very clear that the ideas that have come out of this room, from my point of view, are not very credible in terms of actual effectiveness. i think our political interventions will have very limited effect. and what we need to focus on, of course, is mobilizing international opinion and humanitarian aid. and i think it's very important to remember that venezuela has been struggling with these problems since, in fact, 1948. and we're not going to help venezuela with this debate today if we're not consistent, if we're not constantly monitoring the situation in these cases, if humanitarian aid is, in short, chaotic.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is my privilege to present recommendations to the council and the vice—president/high representative prepared two years after the adoption of the important report on the eu strategic communication to counteract hostile propaganda against it by third parties. i served as the ep rapporteur for the other report as well. the first report, adopted in november 2016, was divided into two parts. it indicated major actors in this work against the eu in the presentation of hostile propaganda. it was a state actor, namely the russian federation, and non-state actors, predominantly radicalised islamic organisations like isis. this time we decided to structure the report’s recommendations differently, thanks to the contribution of representatives of major political groups in the parliament. we divided the recommendations into parts, indicating the state of play in 2018 and targeting the hybrid warfare methods of this. we stress there the necessity to avoid censorship while countering the hostile propaganda, disinformation and misinformation that is presented to the eu and its member states. we stress the importance of quality journalism sustaining freedom of speech and freedom of the media. we also indicate the notion of possible legislative regulatory activity, at both eu and international level. there parties indicated the necessity to even introduce humanitarian law to deal with cyber—warfare or information warfare. we stress the changing patterns of a variety of actors. in terms of radicalised organisation, we mentioned that, instead of very popular websites that increased the level of radicalisation of young people, there are methods of encrypted messaging services that are very popular. much has been done, both within the eu institutions, eu-based institutions and organisations, and by civil society during those two years. we mention all of these activities in citations. i would like to stress the importance of the code of practice on disinformation, the activity of the european endowment for democracy (edd), as well as the transatlantic cooperation, and cooperation with like-minded countries and institutions like the transatlantic commission on election integrity on this. in the second part of this report, we focus on indicating types of misinformation, disinformation and hostile propaganda. the third part is dedicated to methods for safeguarding our elections. the current year, 2019, is the year of over 29 elections in eu member states, including the european elections that are to take place at the same time. after the experience of interference by the russian federation in elections and referendums in the eu and elsewhere, we have to strengthen our resilience to this kind of activity. we indicate the role of east stratcom and complement its activity, also indicating two other task forces for the western balkans, the middle east and the north african gulf area.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! congratulations to minister anna fotyga for this report - a very important report, because we are on the frontline. it is true that cyberspace, the media are instruments used against europe, against european freedom, by third countries specific third countries and it is worth naming them. political life creates such opportunities for us to be attacked by these very instruments. we have the european elections they can be an opportunity. we have brexit could also be an opportunity. we also have other situations that we already know will be exploited by the enemies of freedom - for example, the decade of the eastern partnership, which is a thorn in the side of some of the european union's neighbours - including my country's neighbours.
mr. chairman, please! at the beginning of this term, i pointed out that hybrid conflicts, hybrid wars, require hybrid responses, hybrid reactions, which are very complex. the basic elements of these appropriate responses should be: the fight against propaganda, the fight against disinformation, but also cyber security, education at all levels and cooperation, which is what the report calls strategic. i must say, i'm somewhat disappointed in the commission. it should be noted that the report we are referring to today, from 2016, also from this year, is not an initiative of the commission. it's an initiative of the chairman of the committee on defense and security. i think that this is where the commission should be ahead of the game. the fact that meps are leading the way in cybersecurity, information and the fight against disinformation is not a good sign. it is a signal that the european commission is reacting too late to the various problems that arise in the public and security spheres. i would like to emphasise that these recommendations - there are almost 40 of them - are well-addressed, well-written, well-described and well-timed. it's important today that we respond to them without delay.
thank you very much for this passionate talk.
mr. chairman, please! there has been a lot of evidence that we are dealing with false information being transmitted by the electronic media, also by the traditional media, but also in this room in the european parliament and also during this debate. today we had an example of such an action by the member of parliament schaffhauser, who wiped his mouth with the memory of st. john paul ii. he went on to say that those who follow the teachings of john paul ii, who follow the program he laid out, he said they do the opposite. this is a situation, this is a base of exceptionally evil, deserving of condemnation. those who are dealing with this issue are acting in accordance with the teaching of john paul ii, this is obvious to all of them. but this statement by mr schaffhauser will probably be broadcast, reproduced and perhaps even used in some countries as the main line of the debate in the european parliament today. and this is an example of that kind of action, misinformation, telling obvious untruths, which are obvious untruths to us here in this room, and outside of this room in certain places, can be presented as something completely different, as the main line of this debate.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange. i thank the rapporteur, ms fotyga, and the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i conclude that we overwhelmingly share a common interest in tackling the challenge of disinformation and foreign interference ahead of the european elections. this debate has been a further opportunity to increase awareness about the subject. i close by reiterating once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda.
rapporteur. – mr president, disinformation poisons the minds and conscience of people affected. the best example of this was accusations delivered against persons like sandra kalniete and myself. well, it is putin who affirms the policy of stalin, not ourselves; he tells it himself. and there are well—known fans of putin in this chamber from time to time. i would like to very warmly thank all shadow rapporteurs. their contribution was really excellent. i’m aware of deep debates about this topic within each political group. i think that the final outcome is a real contribution to further work by all eu institutions in countering hostile propaganda. i would like to thank especially charles tannock, who assisted me in a very difficult period of preparation for this report when i had certain health problems. thank you very much indeed.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation by anna fotygá, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the partnership and development cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the islamic republic of afghanistan, of the other part (15093/2016 c8 0107/2018 2015/0302 ((nle)) (a8-0026/2019) and report by anna fotygá, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the partnership and development cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the islamic republic of afghanistan, of the other part (15093/2016 c8 0107/2018 2015/0302 ((nle)) (a8-0058/2019)) (c085093/2018) 2015/0302 (nle))
rapporteur. – mr president, the cooperation agreement on partnership and development (capd) between the eu and afghanistan was signed in february 2017, partially and provisionally entering into force on 1 december 2017. it was upon a council decision that the agreement remains a mixed one, meaning that both the eu and member states are engaged in the process of ratification. the security situation in afghanistan remains difficult, yet over 56% of the territory is under the control of the afghan government. that means that more than 65% of the population is also under the control of the government. since 2002, when the eu engaged in financing, more than eur 3.66 billion of humanitarian aid has been delivered in afghanistan. for the decade of transformation starting in 2015 we intend to deliver a further eur 1.4 billion to stabilise this country. efforts by the nato international security assistance force (isaf) operation and current resolute support with the participation of many countries, including my own, has brought development to the security situation, although, after the emergence of islamic state khorasan (isk), the daesh cells and groups that emerged following operations in iraq make this situation still vulnerable and fragile. the capd focuses on areas of relevance to the rule of the law, good governance, human rights, economic stabilisation and social stabilisation. we have to acknowledge and compliment the good achievements reflected in the statistics. access to health care has increased, due to european assistance, from 9% to 57%, a huge development. life expectancy has increased from 45 to 60. the level of education – schooling, access to schools – is much higher. voting patterns, in terms of participation in elections and the empowerment of women, also represent achievements in this country. the agreement was signed by vice—president / high representative federica mogherini and by the minister of finance of afghanistan, in the presence of the country’s president. we parliamentarians consider it regrettable that information about proceedings in the negotiation of the agreement came to this chamber considerably late, after the signing of the agreement. while our role is substantial, we participate, in accordance with the treaties, in the consent procedure for this agreement. i welcome and support it. i hope that it will be voted on positively.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i completely disagree with my predecessor. it is not that the european parliament's consent is required for any cooperation. this cooperation is now entering a decisive phase and this consent is essential at this stage. i am pleased that the committee on foreign affairs has adopted a positive recommendation for parliament's consent. i am pleased that the first formal cooperation between the european union and afghanistan will take place, but i am particularly pleased with the report itself, which is simply complete in every respect - it contains political and strategic aspects, it talks about the role and responsibility of regional actors, it addresses issues of security and peace building in afghanistan, but also state building, because the state is always in the process of being built. i also draw attention to the human rights which are very often violated in afghanistan, to economic issues, especially development and trade. but what's also crucial is the migration processes themselves. it should be remembered that afghanistan is afraid of migration from pakistan or iran it is not prepared for it. and it's very important that in the final phase of the report, it also includes sectoral cooperation. that makes this report, in short, complete.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me to thank the members for this useful debate. my conclusion is that we should pursue the implementation of the cooperation agreement with afghanistan and the overall eu effort to support afghanistan. this is especially important at this moment, when increased commitment from all the international community is needed. we will keep the european parliament involved in, and informed about, our ongoing work and dialogue.
rapporteur. – mr president, the cooperation agreement on partnership and development (capd) is the first ever legal base for a relationship between the eu and afghanistan. it is to remain in place, in force, presumably, for the next decade. we have to use it to its full extent to further provide peace, stability, security and development, and social sustainability for this country. the task is really difficult. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs or persons who contributed to this report, the advisers of my political group, the staff of the committee on foreign affairs, naturally, and my own assistants. thank you very much indeed.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the war in afghanistan has been going on for many years and there is no end in sight. the year 2018 saw an unusually high number of casualties, especially among civilians. at least 3,800 civilians have been killed this year alone, including nearly 1,000 children. afghanistan continues to be a country of pervasive poverty, with 54% of the population living in or on the verge of poverty. we must do everything we can to end this cruel war and to reduce the suffering of the people. i propose that the eu focus on three actions. first, she supported peace talks between the americans, the current government in kabul and the taliban. the key to peace is the understanding of these forces. second, we need to support more reform of the afghan military and security forces. these forces must be supported, not subjugated. thirdly, there is an urgent need to increase humanitarian aid, food and medical supplies to the civilian population. it's extreme poverty and desperation that causes many people to become allies of the taliban.
the next item is the report by mr juan fernández lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-monaco, andorra and san marino association agreement (2018/2246 ((ini)) ((a8-0074/2019).
in writing. despite their small size, andorra, monaco and san marino have always been an integral part of the european union's history and today enjoy strong economic, political and cultural links with many eu countries. it is high time to formalise these links i therefore welcome the ongoing negotiations on the association agreements. once completed, all three microstates will enjoy full participation in the internal market and the few remaining trade barriers will be removed. we must bear in mind the very limited administrative resources of each of these countries, as well as the enormous work involved in introducing legislative changes and implementing new legislation. it is therefore important to ensure that the burden of this is minimised. i hope that the negotiations will be concluded in the next two years as planned, and that andorra, monaco and san marino will enjoy even closer relations with the european union.
in writing. andorra, monaco and san marino are three micro-states that have always been part of the history of europe, not only because of their geographical proximity to the countries of the union, but also because of their shared political and cultural values. as a consequence of these countries' efforts to integrate more closely with the eu, negotiations for an association agreement were launched in 2015 and are now in their final stages. andorra, monaco and san marino have carried out important reforms and brought their legislation into line with eu law. it is therefore important to create an effective framework to facilitate the implementation of the association agreements in these three countries and to ensure a consistent interpretation of the eu acquis, taking into account their territorial dimension and social, economic and administrative implications. i hope that the negotiations will be concluded in the near future, which will in turn open the way for the agreement to be ratified by all the parties concerned.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner jourová for providing eu citizens with what we have asked for for a long time: a real eu list of third countries that are too lax on money laundering. the list we received is based on the commission’s new methodology and its own assessment of various third countries and i would like to commend you, commissioner, for this initiative. at the same time, i would like to tell colleagues that, together with my group, i very much regret that the council officially objected to the delegated acts proposed by the commission last thursday. this is very unfortunate, i must say, because the blacklist – the identification of non—cooperative jurisdictions – is an important component of our fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. frankly, it is difficult to understand this obstruction on the part of the council. still, while i welcome the new methodology, i expect the commission to include in the further assessment the findings of the tax3 committee of this house, especially findings on russia and its deficiencies in fighting money laundering. let me underline that virtually all major money-laundering scandals uncovered during this legislative term were connected to russian money or russian individuals. eu citizens expect us to act and be ambitious in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. that’s why i encourage you, commissioner, to continue your work and to come up with a new delegated act on this matter.
in writing. the european union's open internal area without borders and the free movement of people and goods are among the european community's greatest tangible successes. the european union must confront the growing problems of migration, which are reducing the level of security in the member states. the increased controls at the eu's internal borders are an example of a decline in mutual trust that does not reflect the idea of a united europe. one solution to this problem is the harmonisation and integration of the management of external borders and a common visa policy for the member states. however, it should be borne in mind that the vast majority of people crossing the eu's borders are not threats to internal security, but only tourists coming to europe in good faith. the resources allocated to external border control and to visa programmes should be allocated in a transparent and fair manner in order to facilitate legal travel for persons arriving from third countries.
madam president! this report and this regulation - in the circumstances of this parliament - are not the worst, but they do lack a few things. i have a few serious objections: first, the death penalty. until you get rid of this antiquated superstition about this opposition to the death penalty, you are not able to win against the terrorists, we are not able to win the war where they can kill us and we can't kill them. we can't provide security for the citizens against this and all this money, all this improvement is money thrown into the mud without this, without the death penalty. secondly, the article 12. there is already an obligation on the part of the states to cooperate with the eu agencies, whether or not it is financed by the union at the moment. this is where the subsidiarity principle ends, and the breaking of it begins. and the third point: article 21 requires the union's action to be visible. the union is consistently going down this road of quietly taking and giving out, wanting to put its logo on every situation when it gives money for something. but i would suggest that we should also put the eu logo on all the products we buy and pay into the eu budget.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the paris agreement paves the way to a clean environment. we need a low-carbon strategy. it's hard, but it also opens up new opportunities. we need to focus on research and innovation, and seek adequate funding for regions undergoing climate change, especially for coal regions such as my region of silesia. that is why i hope that the socialists and alde will support my resolution, in which i speak of a just transition - a transition that excludes no one, does not exclude member states with a very difficult energy mix, dominated by coal. poland's energy mix is 80% coal-based, while france's is only 2%. do we want a clean environment? so let's give a chance to the countries that have a coal-heavy energy mix. please support the amendment on just transition and support for mining regions. otherwise, our discussions will be fruitless, will be a humiliation to the youth, a twisting of their moods. and i know that young people are smart. if we say we have an energy shortage, it means poverty, misery, unemployment. that's why the french are taking to the streets today. let's bet on a just transformation, because it's the only one that makes sense. i ask you to support my resolution.
in writing. less ambition, more efficiency. i think the current proposals are too 'revolutionary' and, on the contrary, may only delay rather than accelerate deliberate action. we need to think and then act in an evolutionary way, that is, in a way that builds bridges to achieve climate-efficient goals. the eu's energy transition cannot be as chaotic as it is now, and the move away from fossil fuels should be gradual. it also means fewer errors of substance on the part of the commission, which equates energy efficiency with reducing energy consumption. you have to invest in real energy efficiency, but it costs money. energy poverty cannot be created by recklessness, and it is growing and will continue to grow, including as a result of the eu's imposed solutions, for example in the area of the ets. the exponentially approaching crisis of civilisation coincides with the climate crisis, but also, in general, with the demographic crisis, and requires not only an energy transformation of europe and the world, but a complete departure from the current consumer civilisation. conclusion: climate protection is not just a european problem, but a global one, and requires a different, more comprehensive approach than has been the case so far, involving all countries.
madam president! i like british tv shows, but this show - brexit - the long show - you can't like it, it's becoming increasingly distasteful. i am even watching the political chaos in the islands with growing concern and amazement, and i express this partly because, as i have said before, in this formerly communist part of europe, the opposition circles were looking for a model of good democracy, and for my circle, which included donald tusk, that model was the mature and efficient parliamentary democracy of the united kingdom. the greater the admiration of the past, the greater the disappointment of the present, because two weeks before the date we have a party game, the impossibility of a majority in favour of a positive solution. most of them are not political art. i don't understand politicians who cut no-deal breakups out of the script, and at the same time vote against the only deals on the table. so there is a growing uncertainty, a cost, on both sides of the channel, human and business, including the uncertainty of the fate of about a million of my countrymen who have found a better life, a better job in the british isles. i don't know what the point is in extending that period, because how do you fill it with positive content when you haven't been able to do it for two years? unfortunately, we have to prepare for the worst-case scenario. the next council's agenda also includes countering disinformation. the one has a lot in common with the other, because the british referendum was filled to the brim with disinformation both of its own making and imported, mainly from russia. i believe that the future parliament, the future council and the future commission will have to face the great challenge of countering or strengthening cybersecurity in a very broad sense. data protection, trolling, but also in a purely military part, the prevention of dangerous invasions from outside.
madam president, the rejection of the withdrawal agreement means several crucial things. first, an orderly withdrawal in two weeks is not going to happen and, secondly, the union’s – and indeed the uk’s – priorities of protecting citizens and businesses most affected by the withdrawal and of avoiding a hard border between ireland and northern ireland and safeguarding the good friday agreement have not been delivered, a mere two weeks before 29 march. they are indeed under serious risk, and that is very bad. if the result of the possible vote tomorrow is to request an extension, then what for and for how long? a short technical extension would only make sense with a positive meaningful vote, which is not the case anymore. a longer extension would not only bring the legal and political problem into the context of the european elections, but it will also provide for a period when a future partnership cannot been negotiated. the withdrawal agreement will not be re—opened. a longer extension means a longer period of uncertainty. the union has said many times how important an orderly withdrawal is on the basis of an agreement concluded under article 50 of the treaty. this is indeed a precondition for creating the trust necessary for the negotiations of a deep and ambitious new relationship. we must repeat that today.
rapporteur. – mr president, it was obviously a technical mistake. the description in the text refers to the other eu institution, namely the commission, and therefore i propose that the words ‘next’ and then ‘and her successor’ be eradicated because we refer to the council now.
mr. chairman, please! you began your explanation of vote with mrs fotyga's report, with mrs fotyga's resolution. earlier, there is mr zdrojewski's report on the erasmus programme and hard brexit. does that mean we're not gonna talk about it? i was asked to speak on this subject, and i don't quite understand why it's not on the agenda.
mr. chairman, please! i abstained on the resolution on clean air for all despite the important issues it contains. we cannot accept the abandonment of coal for energy production by 2030, as the energy sector in poland is based on coal due to the availability of raw materials in the country and justified by economic and social reasons. modern low-carbon energy is also needed in europe, as a guarantee of security in the nuclear sector and in the electricity supply sector against the unstable and unpredictable development of renewable sources. scientific research is needed and is being carried out in our country to reduce pollution and innovative technologies to change the operating mode of power units with a capacity of over two hundred megawatts to new requirements related to improving the flexibility of work and reducing emissions of pollutants such as oxides, halogens, boron or mercury.
madam president! we have an agreement with canada, with japan, we have recently passed an agreement that will be implemented with afghanistan, and we do not want an agreement with the united states. the far left and the far right think that negotiations should start from scratch or not be held at all. why would you do that? because they don't like donald trump. but the americans loved it. maybe they were wrong. and in europe, there were no electoral mistakes? the british didn't get brexit wrong? watching the british parliament, i have the impression that the mps are playing football on a basketball court, they just don't know it yet. mistakes are made. but a partner of this magnitude, with whom we have very important security and defence links, must also be our strategic partner in trade agreements. i want to draw attention to this by stressing the importance and significance of trade relations with the united states.
madam president! the opening of negotiations is intended to prevent further escalation of trade and political tensions between the us and the eu. as long as the talks are going on, the us has committed to not imposing tariffs on car imports from the european union. automotive accounts for 12% of total polish exports, and 85% of polish automotive exports are directed to the european mainly german market. germany is the main exporter to the us market, so it is in poland's economic interest to avoid car tariffs and negotiations with the us can help achieve this. i also have to mention the protection of vulnerabilities in the energy-intensive sector. it's about the differences in gas and energy prices and regulatory costs in the us and the eu especially in poland. equally important is the elimination of export licences for lng in the usa, which would bring more stability to the terms of trade.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. first of all, as the co-rapporteur of the report by marian harkin, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent, balanced and socially sensitive report and for the excellent way in which she negotiated this document. the report cites data and figures which confirm that the labour market situation is stabilising and improving. 2018 is already the seventh consecutive year of economic growth in the european union. unemployment is down, job creation is up, key economic indicators are positive, satisfactory. however, we would like to point out that this prosperity does not extend to all eu citizens. the group of poor and at-risk-of-poverty people still numbers over a hundred million. and then we have a group of neets who are not working, not studying, not going to school. that's still over 6 million people. there is also a gender pension gap of almost 40% and a work-life balance imbalance. these issues remain a challenge. finally, the european union is undergoing a digital transformation which is fundamental to our future and to our competitiveness in the world. meanwhile, the shortage of workers in sectors crucial to the future is in the hundreds of thousands, and 40% of eu citizens lack basic digital skills. an immediate response from the education system to the challenges of industry 4.0 and a multicultural, green and mobile europe is needed to ensure the sustainable and balanced development of our economy.
madam president! europe is currently experiencing a period of economic prosperity, but threats and new challenges are emerging from all sides. the good times won't last forever. there are many challenges to be addressed now, including the ongoing globalisation, technology 4.0, including digitalisation, changing labour market models and demographic trends. we need to invest heavily now to sustain this economic recovery and ensure that it benefits everyone, including future generations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth employment and its impact on employment and social inclusion, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on youth employment and social inclusion. it is worth noting that the european commission's report, under the macroeconomic imbalances alert and detection mechanism, identified 11 member states that will be subject to a detailed assessment in 2019. poland is not among them, because the polish economy is strong. the current, new so-called kaczyński five strengthens poland's economic development and promotes its further development on the proverbial fifth gear.
madam president! it is hard to disagree with many of the diagnoses and recommendations made in the text of the report. i find particularly valuable the suggestions that future investment programmes should be more geared to smes and that the distribution of eu funds must take better account of geographical balance and regional specificities. the unthinking emphasis on the role of the stability and growth pact is a matter of concern. i would remind you that only six months ago the eto pointed out the systemic flaws of this document, which is applied selectively by the european commission to many countries of the union. there are many inconsistencies in the text of this document and i shall advise my delegation to abstain.
madam president, i very much share the opinions of other colleagues that have been expressed here during this debate, that the union faces new challenges. we have an economic slowdown on the horizon. we have an unpredictable brexit ahead of us, we have trade wars and their implications. we have to be prepared to face these challenges. now, most of the postulates here have been addressed to the commission, but i think that the main responsibility is on the member states. i mean, issues such as the reform of the labour market, attempts to encourage people to work longer, increase capacity in research and development, in education, and also to work in favour of improving the situation of our banks, especially in some states. these are all responsibilities of member states, so i would encourage the commission, and personally commissioner dombrovskis, simply to address this issue in the country specific recommendations. we have to indeed be very ambitious in this regard.
madam president! financial institutions in the union have made progress in terms of the quality of their loan portfolios and the overall volume of non-performing loans. in order to prevent the accumulation of npls in the future, additional measures are necessary and the polish delegation therefore welcomes and supports the legislative proposal presented. but i would like to draw attention to two points. first, the current one-size-fits-all approach does not take into account the existing differences in national civil law and the length of proceedings in civil courts. secondly, a specific impact assessment should be carried out to estimate the potential impact of the regulation on banks, on credit transfer, on households, on small and medium-sized enterprises and on the growth of the gross domestic product of the member states.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are indeed considering a problem that could be very painful for both banks and borrowers. the argument that there is a delay and therefore we should not give support, i personally do not believe. we've been working on this for a long time, but it's not that simple. i understand that we are talking about the division of responsibility between the bank and its assessment of the so-called risk level and the borrower, who is, let's remember, diversified (this is not one, unified type of borrower) and who also has the right to risk, both in the part of the investment loan and, possibly, in the part of the consumer loan related to the life plan. we need to reduce the level of bad loans, prevent them from being renewed or increased. the question is, of course, from our point of view, how big the risk capital should be and what will be the effect on the banking system as well. but we must remember that banks need to be protected and investors need to be given the opportunity to invest.
madam president! i wanted to point out that the 600 or even 700 billion euros of loans that are not paid or not paid on time is a serious problem, but it's not as painful because we are in a period of growth as if we were in a period of stagnation or "not prosperity". i am drawing attention to this because the debate has not included very important definitions of the problem, related primarily to the sources of the problems. are the problems due to legal loopholes or systemic errors? are these mistakes made by bankers themselves? to what extent are non-performing loans the result of deliberate activity by various legal entities or natural persons? i'm speaking in the context of my work on the terrorism committee. we talked about bitcoin, about the vat loopholes, about the creation of criminal groups, also using various banking activities. in my view, we should be there before the end of the term. it's good that we're in time, but it's very important that we have a full diagnosis of the source of the problem and its scale.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, i would like to raise issues which are important from the perspective of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco). there are two points i would like to raise. the first is that of the inclusion of the successor of the european stability mechanism (esm) in the european legal framework. it is not a detail, i believe, but a crucial point of the proposal. we in the parliament had been calling repeatedly for the end of those intergovernmental arrangements established during the financial crisis and their integration into the union framework and this proposal is an opportunity to do so. member states are currently working on the basis of an amendment to the esm treaty, but we should be very clear here that the integration of the esm framework into eu law will have to be addressed soon. secondly, the accountability of the successor of the european monetary fund (emf) to the european parliament and national parliaments will be crucial. we have to establish mechanisms which ensure a high level of accountability of the decisions of the successor of esm to elected bodies. access to information is a precondition for the exercise of accountability so there will also be a need to provide for a high level of transparency regarding the decisions of the successor of the esm.
on behalf of the enf group. - madam president! - i have to go. we're talking about the market. the mechanism of the free market is that companies and businesses that do not generate income go down, while those that best meet the needs of consumers grow. and it's through this mechanism that we can enjoy the abundance of goods. in a free market, there are really only two factors that determine success: consumer demand and low production costs. all administrative interference with the free market on the one hand helps those who are inefficient and should have failed to survive, and on the other hand imposes costs on those who have found a way to succeed and could have developed. the creation of an institution like the imf is another mechanism of very strong intervention in the economy, and this intervention is exactly contrary to the judgments of the free market. the result can be - and will be - only one: the growth of efficient companies will be stunted, and consumers will be burdened with financing companies that, as inefficient, should have failed. the creation of such a fund and the allocation of large financial resources to it also implies oligarchic privileges for large corporations, and any privilege granted to anyone is in fact discrimination against all others. so the mechanism of increasingly punishing efficiency and rewarding inefficiency is becoming more common. in this way, the union will provide europe with growth, but unfortunately with a negative sign. that's too bad.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. by taking part in the debate on the council regulation establishing the european monetary fund, i hope that it will significantly strengthen the financial stability of the union, the credibility and the growth prospects of the euro area countries. the transformation of the existing intergovernmental institution, the european stability mechanism, into a fund operating within the institutional and legal framework of the union, the establishment of a mechanism for cooperation with the european parliament and national parliaments, and the rules on the transparency of public access to documents are all solutions that increase the democratic accountability of the decisions taken. i would like to express my hope that the fund, as well as other solutions to changes in the structure and functioning of the economic and monetary union, will be in line with the principle of openness towards non-euro area countries and with the principles that form the basis of european integration, including the rules of the single market. they must not distort the competitiveness of the member states and of the union as a whole. they should also not restrict the rights of non-euro area member states, inter alia, in the decision-making process, including in particular restricting their access to funds from the union budget.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission for preparing this report and i’m convinced that we are taking an important step forward when it comes to the strengthening the economic and monetary union in the eu. the european monetary fund (emf) aims to replace and absorb the european stability mechanism as an efficient and key anti-crisis mechanism. it fills a significant gap in the existing system of governance in the euro area, in the first place. what are the tasks? first of all the emf would provide support to member states in financial distress. one could say that is the esm’s role, but this, as i will explain, is something which will be provided in a more efficient and prompt way. the second task is that it will serve as a backstop for banks that fall into financial trouble. so there is a chance that, by providing financing both to states and to the banks, we are finally going to break the vicious nexus of sovereign-bank connection. the mechanism will be fiscally neutral so it does give us a guarantee that it is not going to transform itself into a permanent payment transfer mechanism. further advantages include the fact that, in terms of governance, it is going to be much more efficient because, as part of the legal framework of the european union, the decision-making mechanism will be faster and it will be more willing and able to face crisis situations in member states. lastly, just one reservation: we should not consider the emf as a competitor of the imf, and i would urge the commission to design the whole solution in such a way as to still have access to, and to benefit from, the imf as an international institution.
mr. chairman, please! booms and busts are the norm in a free market economy, and they also have a healing effect on the economy and business. the trouble comes when the downturn turns into a recession. it is not just companies and budgets that suffer, but above all - and this is the biggest damage - citizens. the european union therefore needs an efficient and powerful instrument for stabilising periods and cycles. moreover, the countries of the european union need support in times of economic downturn or, god forbid, recession. the conversion of the intergovernmental european stability mechanism into the european monetary fund could therefore be a good solution. personally, i would not argue about the name, other issues are more important: firstly, the transfer of powers from the member states to the union; secondly, the abolition of the unanimity requirement in favour of a qualified majority, of course an enhanced qualified majority; and thirdly, it is also important who could be the beneficiary of support from this fund. the european monetary fund should also provide a common safeguard mechanism for the single resolution fund. in conclusion, i am convinced that the mechanism we are talking about must be permanent and very strongly rooted in the european union. then we can count on it to work effectively.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation says that unfair competition is when you receive privileges and subsidies from the government. well, i agree with that. it's unfair competition, when you take taxpayers' money and give it to some company, because it's money that's actually stolen. it's just that we're in the european union. we don't do anything else here, we subsidize everything: agriculture, transportation, students, ngos, both at home and abroad, so we also subsidize aviation. a few years ago, the european commission agreed that my country, my government, would steal from the taxpayers in poland and support polish airlines. in europe too, airports favour their favourite carriers, so it is highly inappropriate for us to see the speck in our neighbour's eye and not see the beam in our own. however, it appears that the report was written at the behest of the airlines and not out of a genuine desire to protect competition.
mr. chairman, please! air passenger transport is a huge driver of the european economy. in recent years we have seen a significant increase in connections both within the european union and to third countries. the market is developing dynamically under competitive pressure from outside the european union. this pressure is due, among other things, to competition for access to emerging markets and to the increasing process of globalisation. for example, middle eastern carriers with huge capital and offering a high standard of connections at a relatively reasonable price have become significant competitors for european airlines. in addition, they do not have to comply with eu regulations, which on the one hand facilitates their rapid development and expansion, but on the other hand causes a complete distortion of competition. i agree with all my predecessors that we should make every effort to ensure that new agreements with emerging and strategic markets are concluded with a fair competition clause in mind. an efficient system of compensatory measures is needed to ensure a level playing field for european airlines and i believe that this regulation will be a tool to strengthen the european aviation industry. but let us remember that ultimately it is the passenger who chooses the airline. this is determined by the price of the ticket, the quality of the service, the security of the journey and the punctuality. i hope that the airlines we are going to strengthen - european airlines - will absolutely take this into account. respect for the customer is very important and cannot be covered by the best regulations. (elżbieta katarzyna łukaciewska refused to answer the question posed by the raising of the blue card by dobromir sośnierz)
mr. chairman, please! competition in the air market is not only necessary but also expected by passengers, but it must be based on sound principles that exclude illegal practices by third countries in relation to european carriers. the european union must have the means to defend itself against unfair competition from airlines which use various forms of subsidies or administrative barriers that directly affect european competition. i believe that this regulation offers a chance to eliminate such practices, unless they are applied rashly and with obvious harm to passengers. but above all, we need comprehensive international solutions to prohibit unfair practices in the air transport market. we must also put greater emphasis on this aspect in the open skies agreements concluded with third countries. only then can we effectively eliminate this phenomenon.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are discussing the 2020 budget, and it is an extremely difficult and complicated budget for the entire european union. i should like to thank mrs hohlmeier all the more for taking up this task. why is this a difficult budget? firstly, it is the last budget for the period 2014-2020, which means, in fact, a slightly higher influx of invoices for projects that were carried out in previous years. we have to be aware that as time goes on, 2020 will be the year of increased spending on some of the projects that are already underway. secondly, this is the last year, already from a financial perspective, that we have a very uncertain and unclear brexit situation. as my predecessor said, we are facing chaos, and the budget must be structured in such a way that it can somehow cope with the unpredictability and chaos. it is not excluded that the 2020 budget will have to be modified depending on the situation that will be with brexit. thirdly, it is a budget which is actually being prepared in parallel with the work on the new financial perspective. and what's interesting about this budget is that basically this budget introduces certain elements already in 2020 that we are working on for years after 2020, so already today, as if the rapporteur shows us that there are certain elements that must be done without waiting for january 1, 2021. it therefore stresses the need to strengthen projects i.e. actions on pro-development actions such as horizon 2020 and erasmus. we're talking about this in a new perspective, that we need to increase this - even triple it in the case of erasmus - but we need to go on this path by 2020. it is also very interesting that we are entering the defence track in the programmes preparing the future defence fund, in other words 2020 is really a year preparing for the new financial perspective, not just a year ending. and it's the same when we talk about innovation, when we talk about modern solutions, when we talk about climate change. in other words, 2020 is a brexit uncertainty, a brexit uncertainty, a brexit spending spree, and at the same time, building a bridge between 2014-2020 and 2021, and in that sense, this budget is a very big challenge and will be a projection of the next perspective.
mr president, when protests in nicaragua began in april 2018, it became obvious that these were not protests against austerity measures, but protests by people fighting for their rights and freedoms. it became a fight against a staggering democracy in a deeply polarised country. since then, hundreds of people have been killed and more than 700 imprisoned –mostly for political reasons. despite a government assurance that there would be no retaliation against activists, we regret to see that repression has intensified. this is reflected in our resolution. we looked at the relaunch of the national dialogue with hope, and we regret that it has come to a halt. therefore, we must emphasise that is not the eu which will provide a solution to the crisis: it is the nicaraguan people who must work together to resolve the conflict. we will, however, work in pursuit of our commitments to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country.
the deputy rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. last year we debated the revision of the regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, parental responsibility and child abduction abroad. as the council's work resulted in a very comprehensive text, the council's decision to ask parliament to be consulted again is to be welcomed. the european parliament supported the previous report by ms zwiefka by a large majority, pointing out several areas that were particularly important to us: the hearing of the child, the use of mediation in family matters and the placement of the child outside the family. it is welcome that all these issues have been addressed in the final text. this is especially important in the often difficult situation of a court decision to place a child outside his or her biological family. i would like to point out that it is still up to the court to decide whether the child will be placed in a foster home, a foster care home or with relatives, taking into account the child's background and the cultural environment in which he or she has lived. the new rules on cooperation between relevant services will allow reliable information to be provided and the court to decide in the best interests of the child. however, one should beware of misinterpreting this provision as requiring the courts to hand over a child of a given nationality to a family from the same country. it's still up to the court to decide that. new, more detailed rules and jurisdictional rules on parental responsibility are also a good solution. the court of the country where the child is habitually resident is still the starting point, but there are detailed exceptions. now, too, the consent of both parents may determine a change of jurisdiction, or the court with jurisdiction may decide that another court for the sake of the child may be more appropriate to hear the case. a new article in the procedure for the return of a child after parental abduction also appears, which refers to a decision to refuse the return of a child under article 13 of the hague convention. it concerns a situation where the court or authority called upon to extradite a child proves that return is impossible in the best interests of the child. these are the dramatic situations in which a child is physically, mentally, or sexually abused. it's a good document that clearly states the procedure to be followed. in addition, as requested by the european parliament, the procedure for enforcement, that is, the certification of recognition of a judgment given in another member state, has been abolished. although it took the council more than two years to reach a common position, the member states have been able to do their job. the council's text takes into account a number of possible scenarios that occur in child custody cases and in parental abductions, where often nothing is black and white. the text presented has been adapted to the complex life situations of our citizens, and especially children. in many places it is emphasized that the court is to take the best interests of the child as the primary consideration in making decisions. we should therefore support the draft report which i am presenting today on behalf of mr tadeusz zwiefka and which approves the council's final text.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. family disputes are always a great drama, and children are the greatest victims. in many such cases, substitute care is a necessity for their well-being and safety. the situation is particularly difficult when it is necessary to provide such care in a country other than the child's country of origin. a few months ago, in a resolution which mr peter will no doubt remember, the european parliament drew particular attention to the outrageous practices of the german jugendamt, which prevent children from foreign families living in germany from being exposed to the language and culture of their country of origin. thanks to the efforts of the polish government, this regulation obliges member states to respect the rights of the child to national, cultural, religious and linguistic identity in procedures for the establishment of foster care. the procedure for exchange of information between authorities, which has also been proposed by the polish government, will allow the identification and designation of relatives of the child who can take over the child's care, for example, to be carried out quickly. i hope that this regulation will finally put an end to the criminal practices of the german child and youth welfare authorities.
in writing. the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and on the removal of a child abroad establishes uniform rules in matters relating to divorce, legal separation or marriage annulment, as well as in matters relating to parental responsibility in cross-border situations. it allows judgments, authentic instruments and agreements to circulate freely throughout the european union. it also clarifies matters relating to children and the procedure for reviewing judgments in this field in other member states. in addition, the regulation lays down the conditions for the return of children who have been illegally removed to another eu country. in this respect, the regulation strengthens the return mechanism provided for in the hague convention, which is the main legal instrument governing parental abduction. it should be noted that it applies only to international abductions and detentions. there is therefore a need to further improve judicial cooperation between eu member states to cope with the increasing number of cases involving citizens in cross-border relationships.
in writing. last year we debated the revision of the regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, parental responsibility and child abduction abroad. the european parliament overwhelmingly supported my previous report, pointing out a number of areas which were particularly important to us: listening to the child, the use of mediation in family matters and the placement of the child outside the family. i am glad that all these issues are included in the council's final text. this is especially important when the court decides to place the child outside his or her biological family. new rules on cooperation between relevant services will allow reliable information to be provided and the court to decide in the best interests of the child. i would like to warn against a misinterpretation of this provision, which would seem to require the courts to hand over a child of a given nationality to a family of the same country. it's still up to the court to decide independently, taking into account the background, the cultural background, and most importantly the best interests of the child. the council's text takes into account many possible scenarios that occur in child custody cases and in parental abductions, where often nothing is black and white. the text presented has been adapted to the complex life situations of our citizens, and especially children.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the strategy for achieving the sustainable development goals, we must adopt a general principle: it must be development to improve the quality of life of society for present and future generations, not to maximize profit for the individual at any cost. however, a mandatory clause should be added that no one is left out. there must therefore be harmony and order in social, economic and environmental policies while maintaining economic efficiency. the priority is to protect the fundamental values of respect for man and nature. global sustainable development therefore requires: the development and consolidation of democracy and human rights; the promotion of good governance; humanitarian aid; the development of human capital, entrepreneurship and the private sector; the promotion of sustainable agriculture, rural development and environmental protection; the strengthening of health care; the sustainable management of natural resources and waste; the reduction of unemployment and poverty among the population. we must always remember that the natural environment and the civilized human environment are interconnected vessels, and so the vessels on either side must be filled with values.
madam president! the report on the implementation of the sdgs is the european parliament's contribution to the first ever community report to the un on the monitoring and review of progress towards the sdgs by the european union and its member states, in addition to voluntary national reviews. these objectives can only be achieved through a comprehensive european union strategy and their integration into the union's internal and external policies and governance mechanisms, in line with scenario one presented by the european commission in its reflection paper of january this year. it is therefore essential that the commission analyses the gaps in existing policies, their implementation, in order to identify the main areas of inconsistency, and develop a monitoring framework and a review of the specific objectives from the perspective of the european union and the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the trilateral talks are under way, which is why i am in a bit of a replacement for rosa thun, who was a co-author of today's resolution. we have 16 recommendations, and i cannot list them all in such a short time, but i will focus on the most important ones. first, the resolution calls on the government of kazakhstan to implement the recommendations of the un special rapporteur on freedom of peaceful assembly and of association. calls on the government of kazakhstan to cease all forms of arbitrary detention, repression and harassment of human rights activists and civil society organisations. it also calls on the government of kazakhstan to review the changes in the media and information law that came into force this year. finally, it is very important - and this resolution draws attention to this - that article 174 of the criminal code be applied to the so-called incitement to social, national or clan discord. i'm calling attention to the misuse of this article.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss the human rights situation in kazakhstan. as you know, the eu-kazakhstan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which has now been ratified by 25 eu member states, provides the eu and kazakhstan with a solid framework to advance our cooperation. it’s full ratification will enable us to further strengthen our cooperation, also on human rights, building on the existing regular dialogue with kazakhstan. the human rights dialogue and the justice and home affairs subcommittee, last november, discussed, among other issues, the importance of an independent judiciary and legislative powers to ensure the effectiveness of the constitutional mechanisms of checks and balances, as well as zero tolerance to torture and ensuring independent monitoring of detention facilities. on that occasion, the european union also raised concerns in relation to an independent media, freedom of expression and freedom of association and peaceful assembly. it remains important for kazakhstan to continue to take steps to foster an enabling environment for civil society, human rights defenders, lawyers, trade unionists and journalists. we are closely monitoring the human rights related developments in kazakhstan, including in relation to the updated law on trade unions and its compatibility with ilo conventions, with international human rights standards and the impact on civil society of the law on the financing of ngos. the eu-kazakhstan cooperation committee in january agreed that the eu delegation and the kazakh authorities would follow up on specific concerns raised and this is what we are doing. the rule of law will remain a key priority sector of the eu support in kazakhstan through the new regional eu–central asia rule of law programme, which will begin in 2019.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran, in particular the situation of human rights defenders (2019/2611 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i'm not in iran, but i'm in security, which is why i'm on the election observation mission in pakistan, and i'm in the debate on afghanistan. what concerns me most today is the lack of coherence between the various documents and debates. i would remind you that on tuesday we were talking about afghanistan, and we were talking about iran, and we were talking about pakistan. on the one hand, the security threat, on the other hand, pakistan migration processes. we're talking today about human rights, about the abuse of various criminal laws against iranian citizens, against journalists, against women. we're talking about the drama of these people. i would like to stress that if the european union's policy, the policy of this parliament, is to be effective, we must show greater determination, greater consistency in the documents submitted to the various governments, and also pay attention to the interdependencies that exist in these geographical areas we are talking about. i therefore call for more consistency, more determination, more coherence.
member of the commission. – mr president, just a few months ago, on 10 december 2018, the international community marked the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights. on the occasion, high representative federica mogherini, published a declaration on behalf of the european union, in which she emphasised that support for human rights defenders, including women human rights defenders, is at the core of the eu external human rights policy, and one of its major priorities. a few days later, this commitment was underlined by honourable members of the european parliament during a debate on the iranian human rights defender nasrin sotoudeh, who just a few days earlier, at the time, was convicted and sentenced in connection with her work to promote universally recognised rights. our deep concern at her conviction was expressed immediately in a statement. our commitment to support human rights defenders is there 365 days, throughout the year, and not only on 10 december. indeed, as part of our diplomacy, we closely follow the human rights situation in countries around the world, including iran. a cardinal aspect of this task is working to support the work of human rights defenders and ensure, as far as possible, that they are not subjected to harassment or detention. with respect to iran, this extends to closely following the situation of ms sotoudeh and other individuals, including, for example, the group of eight environmentalists who were detained in january last year and who are facing extremely serious charges. in iran and in other countries, human rights defenders, including human rights lawyers, do invaluable work. this includes providing legal representation to members of vulnerable groups, representing juvenile offenders facing the death penalty, working to protect women or members of ethnic and religious minorities. all too often, however, this work is met with repression or convictions and imprisonment on security-related charges. this is inconsistent with the universal declaration and with the international covenant on civil and political rights, which iran ratified in 1975 and which commits iran to ensure that no one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrests or detention, no one shall be deprived of his liberty, except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as are established by law. as clearly reflected in the latest conclusions on iran, adopted by the council on 4 february, while we are committed to the full and effective implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action, the european union policy on iran is based on a balanced and comprehensive approach, critical when there are these divergences and cooperative in case of shared interests. in line with this approach, the european union has repeatedly called on iran to provide human rights defenders with an open, stable environment in which to conduct their work. the european union has also consistently raised individual human rights cases with the iranian authorities at all levels, including in the framework of the eu–iran a high-level dialogue. we are strong supporters of the mandate of the un special rapporteur for the situation of human rights in iran and encourage the iranian authorities to grant him access to the country. finally, our member states have also raised the case during their own bilateral contacts with the iranian authorities. we strongly believe that these efforts have contributed to certain positive developments that we have noted in recent years, including the decision to amend iran’s anti-narcotics legislation in november 2017, which has resulted in a dramatic reduction in drug-related executions and which, in itself, is a positive step forward in human rights. we are continuing to advocate for further improvements in this regard, including an immediate moratorium on the execution of juvenile offenders. we continue to call for the release of all iranian human rights defenders. those who are detained should be afforded timely access to a lawyer of their own choosing, be allowed to communicate with their family members, have access to adequate medical care and not be subject to any form of mistreatment. we are encouraged by the attention paid to this issue by members of the european parliament and we will continue our effort to work together with you in order to promote a better environment for human rights defenders across the world, including in iran.
thank you very much, commissioner mimica. thank you for making the voice of the members and yours the same. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in guatemala (2019/2618 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! obsessive sexism is perhaps the most troubling disease of this parliament, which spoils the few sensible initiatives and makes matters worse for the bad and harmful ones. the first point is that the european parliament is concerned about the increasing number of murders, especially of women. but in guatemala, the overwhelming majority of murders are committed by men. you write about over 600 women murdered, you don't write about over 5,000 men murdered. you write that there's an 8% increase in female homicides, but the number of male homicides has increased in the same way. once again, you're taking data out of context and juggling it to fit your preconceived notion - even with human rights defenders. the european parliament places a higher value on the lives of women, because we read: 'it reiterates its call to protect human rights defenders, especially women'. what do you mean, women in particular? what's that supposed to mean? i'm glad this term is coming to an end, and i hope that in the next term, feminists, who value the lives of some people more than others, just because they are of the opposite sex, will no longer be in the majority.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the human rights situation in guatemala is alarming, especially with regard to attacks on human rights defenders and journalists and violence against women, which has been steadily increasing over the past few years. i am particularly concerned about the plans of the guatemalan congress to pass a new law establishing a general amnesty for those who committed serious human rights violations during the past armed conflict. i believe that such a law could seriously jeopardise the safety of victims, as well as witnesses, judges and experts involved in these cases. i believe that the proposed law not only constitutes a serious violation of human rights, but also could be an attempt to pave the way for a broader strategy of impunity for human rights violations in guatemala. i would like to emphasize very strongly that such actions are met with strong and firm opposition from the european union, and that is why i am calling on the guatemalan congress to reject the proposed law.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to address this house on the political and human rights situation in guatemala. the european union and guatemala have a solid bilateral relationship based on mutual commitment and trust. that is precisely why it is important to say that we are concerned by the weakening of the rule of law materialised by the recent attacks on the fight against corruption, notably the decision by the government to terminate the activity of the international commission against impunity in guatemala (cicig) and also by recent parliamentary initiatives that could reduce the democratic space as well as generate impunity for crimes against humanity committed during the civil war. the european union has been a staunch supporter of the cicig both financially and politically. over the last ten years, the european union has provided eur 22 million to the anti—corruption un body. for 2019, the last year of the current mandate and in very difficult conditions, our contribution amounts to eur 5 million. achievements in the fight against corruption and impunity have been impressive, also contributing to the reduction of criminality in guatemala. despite constant attacks, cicig is very popular, admired and respected in guatemala as the people know that corruption severely undermines the institutions, the rule of law and ultimately the country’s democracy. so let me repeat this: the european union stands by guatemala; the european union stands by its commitment to the fight against corruption; the european union stands by cicig. we do of course continue to support all efforts against corruption by the guatemalan judicial institutions. they play a crucial role in the fight against impunity. the separation of powers and respect for judicial rulings is paramount as it is a cornerstone of the rule of law. the overall security situation in guatemala has recently improved. however, ensuring the protection of human rights defenders and other activists and avoiding any further deaths and attacks is urgent and essential. human rights defenders paid a heavy toll last year with a doubling in the number of casualties according to human rights organisations. people from vulnerable groups, such as indigenous community leaders, environmentalists or lgbtis, have been particularly targeted. finally, and while fully respecting the country’s democratic process, we want to express our concerns about two bills currently being discussed in guatemala’s parliament, as mr ignazio corrao rightly pointed out. the first would reduce the space for civil society organisations by restricting their conditions for registration and operation, and undermining the democratic role played by a free and open civil society. the second draft bill would reform the national reconciliation law adopted after the civil war and give absolute impunity for crimes against humanity. yesterday our eu delegation in guatemala, along with embassies of the european union member states present in the country and together with the us and canada, spoke out publicly against that bill. i’m glad to see that yesterday, congress did not find a quorum to discuss that project for an amnesty, but we must remain vigilant as it is not totally off the table. the country will have elections later this year in june and we have the highest respect for the electoral period guatemala is entering. elections are an important moment, where the people unite to debate, compare visions and ultimately elect their leadership. they should be used to enhance democracy and the rule of law and not to put in question the basic tenets or all the hard-gained advances over the last decades.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.47 a.m. pending the vote) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to make a brief comment. if it's about democracy and altiero spinelli, then, in one sentence, we can't connect the dots. altiero spinelli in his manifesto from ventotene speaks of a dictatorship of the revolutionary party, so what are you referring to? if anyone has the right to speak of a democrat... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! what this regulation proposes is a step towards nationalising the internet. i feel sorry for the rapporteur who was supposed to represent the pirate party in this parliament, but in reality she is a privateer in the service of a european superstate. inviting the european union authorities to stimulate research will end up with this research being used to justify government interference, to justify government and european union interference with the internet. the man who pays, simply demands. subsidizing infrastructure will give the union a pretext to issue orders, bans in the interest of protecting this infrastructure that it is building with its own money. the financial support of new companies will make them dependent only on the government and will make long-term investments unprofitable, as the state continuously subsidizes new entities. the strength of the internet is its independence. we don't need the european union to defend us. so keep your hands off the internet!
mr president, i have supported this report because i consider it important that the european parliament has made it clear that the current situation in turkey does not allow the negotiation and association process with the european union to continue. the situation of the turkish society and especially the leadership of the state is so different from the european perception of democracy and the protection of human rights that it is not possible to speak of turkey as a country that could become a member of the european union at some point in the future. on the other hand, we must have good relations with turkey, a country which is part of the nato defence community, but we must admit that this is not realistic at the moment, simply in terms of membership of the european union. and that's what the resolution contains, which is why i supported it.
mr. chairman, please! in this one month session - although this month we have two sessions per month to give a discount to our increased legislative pole at the end of the term - we have already taught vietnam, russia, iran, guatemala, kazakhstan, turkmenistan, venezuela, afghanistan and nicaragua. i hope i didn't miss anything. now, of course, it's time for turkey. do you really think anyone's reading this? resolutions made sense when they were used exceptionally, in exceptional circumstances, rarely. when we spend ten a month, i don't think anyone but the members of this house is impressed. and even the most valid comments and the most valid responses are so ideologically left-wing that they simply cannot be supported. in this case, we have again social rights, labour rights, interference in the division of powers between the authorities in turkey, a ban on the construction of a nuclear power plant, the integration of roma with taxpayers' money and the fight against anti-gypsyism, so non possumus. i couldn't support it.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of this resolution, although, as i stressed in my speech in the debate on it, which concerned, i recall, three candidates for important posts in the economic and monetary institutions of the european union and this so-called 'short list', i stressed that my group of european conservatives and reformists supports the preservation of a gender balance in the process of nominating these candidates. but - and this is very important, as i have stressed - we would also like to see a geographical balance maintained, so as not to favour candidates from the so-called 'old' union over candidates from the so-called 'new' union from central and eastern europe. i also noted that this process must also involve the selection of candidates for the european commission, because out of the 28 candidate commissioners we currently have 19 men and only nine women in the european commission, but in the end, as i said, i supported this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament adopted a joint motion for a resolution on the future eu sanctions regime for human rights violations in the world. in the resolution, we call, inter alia, for the freezing of assets and the banning of entry into the union of any natural or legal person or entity responsible for planning gross human rights violations, abuses and systemic corruption. we expect the new system to be a deterrent, although i'm not sure that's the case. the document raises concerns about the requirement that, to this end, the member states of the union must interpret, explain and enforce the application of sanctions in the same consistent manner. despite these reservations, i have decided to support this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! in a resolution of our group of european conservatives and reformists, we note that the european union is responsible for less than 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions and that the union cannot achieve the paris agreement goals on its own without the participation of the world's largest economies. the joint resolution adopted does not refer to the use of the union's own raw materials and, therefore, to ensuring the community's energy security, for example by promoting clean coal technology, and in particular coal gasification aimed at producing hydrogen as a clean energy source. that is why i voted against this joint resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the zero-emission economy is a political illusion. there is no such thing, there never was, and probably won't be for a long time. we don't have that technology, and no matter how many times you punch the table from the left, that's not going to change. you can wink at your shoes, you can write anything on paper, it's patient, but it doesn't change the facts. we could write that the earth will be spinning in the other direction from tomorrow, but it won't. and there's not going to be any technology that will allow us to not emit greenhouse gases for the foreseeable future. the only effect of setting such unrealistic goals is that nothing is accomplished. the only effect will be to slaughter the traditional socialist european economy without making any progress on climate. and you write about a stable and predictable energy policy framework. in the year since i've been in this parliament, we've voted on a dozen climate policy changes. the name is not stable and it is not predictable, nobody can invest feeling safe that tomorrow parliament will not change its current policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, the dominant ideology in the european union is cultural marxism, which differs from classical marxism in that it replaces the old notions of exploitation with the notion of discrimination and tracks down the successive discriminated groups, but above all it exploits them because the constant stigmatization of society as a discriminatory structure, the showing of "discriminates against these, those, and others" actually causes social antagonisms that harm each other in people. we really shouldn't go down that road. establishing thought police, establishing special laws - all of these are not the way to build a solidary society. if anyone in our countries is harmed, there should be a strong, consistently enforced law to protect every person harmed. the tool for building solidarity is simply education, the christian culture in which we have been raised, and certainly not the thought police, which will only escalate further social conflicts.
mr. chairman, please! i came to this debate out of curiosity to hear what you're all about, and to be honest, i still don't know. all but two of the forewords spoke the same general phrases. i don't know where you get the idea that this is a growing problem. i was going to ask mr. jakovčić, but he's already gone, so he won't answer me. how do we know this problem is growing? what observations justify this belief that we have a growing problem with racism, homophobia, as he called it. i think we have a problem with homophobia, if not with the glorification of deviance in this parliament, not homophobia. so what's the problem? where's the data? where are the details? what is the basis for all this weird discussion? i think this is a completely marginal issue and maybe it's just because of the upcoming elections that you want to get some more votes from people who are interested in this, but i don't see any reason for us to be concerned about this. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. member kyenge, of course they are and have the right to participate in the debate. i'd prefer they were straightforward, not general, but they're entitled. that's all i said.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the transportation committee has been considering the mobility package. the commission has already reached an agreement, but the european parliament has rejected it. today, we have no agreement on two of the three reports. none of the amendments in any form have passed the transportation committee. are we to decide on 1,600 amendments in this chamber among members who have only a very general idea of what they are about? i therefore propose and support the proposal that the reports by wim van de camp and merja kyllönen, which have not been accepted by the committee, should be left unaddressed during this parliament's term of office.
mr. chairman, please! the title of this report should be: "don't steal! the real fraud is not tax evasion, but government activity. it's governments taking from one to give to another. it's governments that print money, depreciating our savings. it's governments that allow fractional reserve banking, which allows banks to borrow the same money multiple times. for any of these things, a citizen would go to jail, and governments still expect applause. it's not tax evasion that needs justification, it's taxes that need justification. taxes are people taking other people's money, claiming rights to other people's income. it requires justification, not avoidance. it is a man's duty to avoid this, so that this money does not fall into the hands of stupid politicians who are likely to waste it. in this context, you always say: no more hospitals, no more schools. let's just say it might not be enough for the field trips. the cost of members' trips to the european parliament alone is over eur 20 million. maybe it won't be enough for erasmus, where students travel from one place to another with taxpayers' money. there's no money for that! and glory be to the lord!
the question asked by raising the blue card. you said tax justice. there's only one fair system: when i keep what i earn, and you keep what you earn. why do you think you have the right to look in people's wallets and see how much money they've made and tax it?
mr. chairman, please! i don't want to give the impression that it's okay because we've prepared a specific legal act. i would rather point out that both during the debate and during the work on this document, there were more complaints than positive assessments. i will now turn to three problems that have already been described at length. first, the golden visas and the big problem with them. second, implementation procedures that are too slow and flawed. thirdly, the legal loopholes and the european tax havens. i say this because i don't believe in the simple power of deeds and bureaucracy. it is very important to be consistent and to try to reach agreements that will eventually work.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the change of approach to directive 2000/84/ec is very important. it's probably politically relevant, but it's the citizens themselves who have expressed in referendums and in public opinion polls that they don't want the seasonal time change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as rapporteur for the envi opinion committee, i would like to dwell briefly on health matters. first, all the research in this area, including the new discipline of chronobiology, and the public health statistics, like the increased number of heart attacks, suicides, road accidents that happen during this time, all suggest that this is a phenomenon that is detrimental to public health and the health of the citizen. the envi committee therefore supported the position that the seasonal clock change should be abandoned as soon as possible and the european union directive on this issue should be repealed. at the same time, we are in favour of the member states establishing their standard time in a harmonised way, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. we realize that these countries are at different latitudes and that the sunshine time in the north and the sunshine time in the south of europe is different.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. indeed, most europeans have spoken out strongly against the change of time. it's an outdated custom that's done more harm than good. it is very good that our request to delay this change until 2021 has been accepted, because the european union is not an island. we have communications agreements with countries in all time zones, and these agreements are signed in advance. the way in which the commission has prepared this draft from a technical and substantive point of view is truly scandalous. the lack of proper impact assessment was embarrassing for us. the commission should have given us all this information before, instead of assuming that we would have solved the problem immediately. well, no, commissioner, we won't, and that's for transportation reasons. i'm glad we're not gonna be moving the tips anymore in 2021. i would just like to emphasize that it is the responsibility of each of our countries to define their own time zone.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it may seem that the elimination of seasonal time changes is a subject that should not be raised in any doubt. there should be complete agreement in this chamber, because if we disagree on such a simple matter, what is it? we shouldn't share, and yet there are doubts. i am glad to be one of the european citizens who, in a consultation involving 4.5 million citizens, voted for the abolition of the seasonal clock change and i fully support their demands. there's scientific research, there's health, there's economics, there's agriculture, so it's not enough to just go along with it and break old habits. and as this discussion shows, the hardest thing to break are old habits, even if they have no scientific or economic basis. i regret that the change will not be rescinded until 2021, but i understand that member states must have time to prepare and that the commission will absolutely not apply for further postponements. two thousand twenty-one will be the year that the seasonal time change goes to the lamusa.
mr. chairman, please! and we're ending years of work by many people. the current working party was set up in the previous term of office, then chaired by mr herbert reul, and now chaired by mr pavel svoboda. it was on the initiative of this group that the draft resolution was drawn up, which has now been finalised in the report on the amendment of the directive prepared by the european commission. in many parliaments, also in europe - in finland, in poland - we hear here that other parliaments have also taken up this issue, so it is not a new issue. at the same time, this consultation has shown that several million citizens of the member states want to stop this double time change. we believe that this change must maintain the harmonization of time zones. better sooner than later, but 2021 is better late than never. i think the union must start by recognising the concerns of its citizens. and one of those concerns was the issue of time change, because it showed how many problems, including health, also existential, family problems, it causes. so we can say that the hour has come for us to end this double time shift, although it will take a little longer.
in writing. i'm very happy that we're finalizing the work on moving away from the relic of the past, which is the time change. in two years' time, the european union will be able to enjoy the stability of being in one time cycle. no doubt all will benefit, especially children, the elderly and the sick, and farmers. this also means a number of benefits for european transport and information systems, among others. i therefore had no hesitation in voting in favour of this directive, and i am glad that the majority of members felt the same way. but i would now like to call on the member states to first agree their common position in the council without undue delay and then coordinate the change process in an efficient and sensible way while maintaining the harmonisation of time zones.
madam president! i would like to touch on another aspect of this problem and not go back to what we have already agreed in principle, but to say something about the future and the experience of this process of our work on the legislative proposals that have been included in this package. well, i think it's time to set the conditions for a truly equitable energy transition. before we implement any more ambitious climate targets - and we know that the eu is currently projected to be a completely carbon neutral economy by 2050 - before we do that, let's take care of the people most at risk from the elimination of conventional energy sources such as coal, oil and natural gas. let us be warned by the mass depopulation of the so-called coal regions, as in northwestern bulgaria, or even by the french yellow vests protests triggered by the increase in fuel prices. i wouldn't want the scenes in paris to be repeated in other european capitals. the energy transition requires a country-specific and regional approach. it requires preparation, investment. it has to go hand in hand with the security of energy supply, with maintaining the competitiveness of individual economies. but first and foremost, let us put households at the heart of this process, especially those already facing energy poverty.
madam president! the dieselgate affair was a clear scandal. unfortunately, the car companies didn't cover all the costs. it's the customers who are often left to their own devices and who try to claim the defective cars that are sold to them through class action lawsuits. but fighting dishonest manufacturers cannot mean fighting the owners of diesel cars in general. for years, drivers have been told that modern diesels are environmentally friendly and durable. they bought these cars, and now they're putting them up against the wall with the curfews. it's not that way. the fight for clean air in cities must not be at the expense of their inhabitants or commuters, and the costs of these bans must not fall on the least well-off. common sense is also needed when it comes to the environment.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs very warmly. the general compromise was reached despite the initial significant differences of opinion. there are a few things that will come up in the vote tomorrow. it is important to look for sensible solutions, realistic solutions to implement, and unfortunately not everything is possible today because there are no real technical tests. we therefore ask the commission to undertake some of these tasks before the next revision of the directive. but what's important today? the transport sector accounts for one third of the union's energy consumption and road transport for 22% of total greenhouse gas emissions. tyres, mainly due to rolling resistance, account for 5 to 10% of the fuel consumption of vehicles. the new tyre labelling model will provide consumers with greener, safer and quieter vehicles and will help reduce emissions in the transport sector. this is a significant step forward. it requires full information to be provided to users on fuel consumption, wet grip, external tyre rolling noise. the updated label will inform you of the grip on snow and ice, which has not been the case before. for the first time, labelling and requirements are being introduced for truck and bus tyres, c3 tyres, which will allow retreading tyres to be covered in future, with a new method of testing their performance being required. this will increase efficiency and bring tyres into the circular economy, and we have called for a review of the directive to speed up the work and to require tests to assess the impact of tyre friction and the release of microplastics. it's important not only for the environment, but for the health of each and every one of us. new requirements are in place for the display of the label, including for distance and internet sales. these new requirements will radically improve the visibility of all information for consumers. the regulation also improves transparency and enforcement by introducing the obligation to register tyres in the product database. the same information should also appear on or be attached to the sales invoice for tyres sent to the buyer. the user will thus be able to better understand the products and compare them against the relevant criteria. the result is a transparent solution for consumers, accelerating the environmental quality and performance of tyres, making them healthier and safer.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. thank you very much, and thank you to everyone in this brief discussion, for all the very well-delivered comments. i think that the document we have prepared is a good basis for future tripartite talks, probably in the new parliament, and it will certainly be necessary to pay attention - in addition to what we have already achieved, i am thinking here of the good information on the labels - also to what mr martin has pointed out, that is to accelerate the work that will be involved. . . . (the president interrupted the speaker for lack of translation) i will continue in english. thank you very much again to all: to the commissioner, to all our cooperators. i think that it is a very good background for future work in trilogues, probably in the future parliament, and i think that we understand how important it is to have clear information addressed to consumers. but i fully agree with mr martin that we need to discuss and speed up our work so as to avoid the negative consequences of tyres. we are talking about microplastics, and it should be part of our european fight against the negative consequences of using plastic.
madam president! in the recent discussions on the speech by president tajani, the figure of altiero spinelli, who is one of the patrons of europe, was once again mentioned here. he is listed as the patron saint of europe, and his likeness stands in the lobby of our building in brussels, which bears his name. he's been called the model of democracy. and that's why i wanted to remind you of who altiero spinelli really is. he's an italian communist, the most criminal of all the regimes in the history of mankind. and what did he say in his manifesto from ventotene, which is considered the ideological foundation of the european union? well, the sentence is, "the dictatorship of the revolutionary party will create a new state, and around it a new true democracy". to be sure of altiero spinelli's understanding of true democracy, let's add another sentence: the source of vision and certainty is not the anointing of the will of the people. altiero spinelli was not a democrat.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, let me first of all thank you for the constructive debate we have had over the last two and a half years. the copyright directive is a key element of our digital single market strategy. therefore, on behalf of the european commission, we note with satisfaction that a provisional political agreement has been reached on this important matter. this is a crucial moment for european culture, for our digital economy and for the defence of our european values. the new copyright directive will help us achieve our common objective of adapting copyright to the 21st century. the directive will benefit those who make our european values what they are: authors, performers, journalists, press and book publishers, film and music producers, digital services, researchers, libraries and many others. it will help our press and the creative sector, it will strengthen artificial intelligence and make europe's cultural heritage more easily accessible to our citizens. finally, for the first time in eu legislation, individual creators will benefit from specific provisions that will strengthen their bargaining position and help them to obtain fair remuneration. all these actors, all these authors, look to us and expect the european union to keep its promises. better equipping our creators is about bringing our culture to life. better equipping our journalists is about making our democracy live. we believe that the text of the political agreement before you is balanced but also ambitious, reconciling the various interests at stake. creators and other rights holders will be fairly remunerated, the impact on service providers will remain proportionate and users and their freedom of expression will be protected. finally, let me mention that the commission will publish a statement on the situation of organisers of sporting events accompanying the adoption of the directive. the text of the declaration is attached to the legislative resolution. i am therefore glad to hear your views and i look forward to hearing them, and i sincerely hope that by supporting the copyright directive we will all once again send a strong signal, a signal to our creators, our authors, our values.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - i have to go. the digital copyright directive is needed - we all know that. the solutions developed years ago, when the infosoc and e-commerce directives were adopted, have become outdated. they hamper innovation, introduce legal uncertainty into business and, in some cases, dangerously distort market relations. so it would seem that the matter is clear, but it is not. this directive has become the subject of manipulation and battle by corporate giants. the big players on both sides of the barricade, and i emphasize both sides: both the internet giants and the media companies, have spent no money on black pr over the past two years, and have no ideas for ever-greater manipulation. unfortunately, some people do succumb to these manipulations. the most disturbing thing is that they have hostaged the entities to which the directive is also addressed. i am talking about the scientists, the educators, the museumists, the scriptwriters who are waiting for the solutions of this directive, but whose interests are not being taken into account today. but i think we have reached a critical point and this parliament is not in a position to make a rational decision on this issue, and we should deal with this in the next term.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president! - i have to go. article 13 was controversial from the beginning, and therefore a clear legal compromise between the rights of authors, platforms and users was needed. the internet is not just about accessing the works of famous authors and journalists. it's digital creators, it's digital commentators, and it's going to millions every day. it's wrong to say that there's no general filtering obligation, because there's also a legal requirement that everything be checked for licenses. someone promotes their product with references to content that, for example, as a pastiche should be exceptions. but can machine filtering recognize the nuances? it'll end up on the platforms. they're supposed to take on the whole burden of legality. i don't want corporations deciding what content to release. this caution will turn into prevention for fear of punishment. in the past, prevention was censorship, but in the digital world, it's a mistake, but it's also a loss of earning potential and reputation. i am in favour of removing article 13 from the directive. then i can vote for it and for what's very, very good about it. and i thank axel voss for all the hard work he's put into making us this close.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, for the past two years we have debated different versions of article 13 and now it is certain this text will change the internet as we know it and it will have vast negative effects on the way people share and acquire knowledge. we all had one great objective in mind: to help authors and performers, but in the end we failed to strike a balance between the rights of all the parties involved. this is a big mistake. therefore, the only choice we have now is to delete article 13. this is the minimum necessary to make this directive less devastating for the european digital companies and our citizens who already demonstrate against this in the majority of capitals across the eu. the mandate we had from the european parliament clearly protected and excluded the european small and medium-sized enterprises from the scope of article 13. unfortunately, this is no longer the case. therefore, these smes will be obliged to buy expensive filtering technology, at the moment produced only by american giants. in the current text, all commercial websites and apps that allow users to post content will have to make best efforts to buy licenses for anything that the person may possibly upload in the future. (the president cut off the speaker)
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm one of the last people you can say is a lobbyist, but i'm very keen to distinguish between lobbyists. i want to make it clear that this group that is fighting for the right to their pay is not a lobbyist. i have a question for you: do you distinguish between lobbyists who work for business entities and those who fight only to avoid being robbed of their pay?
madam president! we have just witnessed a dispute over what is in this directive. that is the essence of the matter, because the biggest problem with this directive is that its interpretation will be more important than the content itself, which mr voss so unconvincingly praises. and that's where the biggest danger lies: in the vague terms and definitions. the introduction of related rights for press publishers will severely limit the public debate. only the big publishers, who already have a huge influence on public opinion, will be left in the market. they're the ones who will share the profits from the link tax and create a monopoly of information that can no longer be broken by smaller websites or bloggers. i therefore call for the directive to be rejected.
madam president! the internet became what it is, a miniature world, because of the voluntary involvement of ordinary people and because of the lack of regulation. and it hurts you, because the growth of the internet is an example of how our world could have developed if it weren't for all of your regulations, if it weren't for the heavy backpack of regulations and taxes that each of us has to carry every day. the internet is simply the last bastion of freedom and it keeps you awake, because it's proof that all your regulations and these regulations, these directives are really unnecessary and harmful, and the world would be better off without it, it would be developing just like the internet. if it weren't for your ambitious plans, your value-add, your leverage, your sending out strong signals, we would just be living a better, simpler life. that's why you're trying to destroy it, that's why you're trying to put your foot in the door every chance you get, but we don't want your foot in that door. now you're backing off a few inches because people are protesting, but we don't want you there at all, we don't want your regulations, we don't want your hands on the internet. it works well, creativity flourishes on the internet without any of your regulation.
madam president! this version of the directive also introduces surveillance and censorship that is not present in communist countries. it was just a blur of content to hide the real intent. but it's no longer worth convincing this parliament. most of them will vote as the brass says. so i am addressing the voters in europe. citizens of europe, if you don't want to lose what's left of your freedom, force your governments to leave the european union. you're going to have to make it a party of italexit and polexit. let us leave this creation, this bureaucratic monster, the european union. let us create a true european union, a union of nations, from the ground up. and now, may the hand of god protect you to vote for the members of parliament who will support this directive. see how soon they're voting. (the speaker agreed to answer two questions by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. you said you were against this directive, against paying people in the cultural world. did you say that you are for the polexit or that you are the head of the polexit party, whose main goal is to take poland out of the european union?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yes, about a month ago, maybe a little over a month ago, i publicly announced in this parliament that i am in favour of poland leaving the european union. i am also in favour of other countries leaving and creating a new european union, not the bureaucratic, self-centered, arrogant monster that the union is at the moment. i made that public, so i don't really understand the question. i'm doing everything in poland to make that happen. and in parliament i have said this so far: if parliament does not change, if the european union does not change, we will have to leave. but what has happened recently, what is happening with this directive and other laws that have been introduced recently, means only that the union has accelerated and changed, but it has not gone in the direction i wanted. it went the other way, so now you just have to go out and create it again. because the present union is a monster... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 26 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the digital single market directive, which its opponents call acta2. for months, it divided the inhabitants of european cities: it was supported by artists and publishers, opposed by some internet users, who considered it an attempt to censor the internet. on the one hand, the directive is really about tackling piracy in a broader sense. for example, all websites that copy the text of individual newspapers or other media in its entirety. on the other hand, these regulations are a scandal. internet users have been deceived, as the directive can directly restrict freedom of speech online. it's an attempt to silence and censor. the most controversial articles on the so-called acta2 are articles 11 and 13. the first provides for the granting of related rights to publishers, while the second requires the filtering of content on the portal for copyright purposes. in the context of acta2, there is also discussion of article 3 of the directive, which provides that data from publicly available resources may only be used by research institutions for scientific purposes, which is a deadlock for private institutions.
the next item is the report by andrea cozzolino on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional development (com ((2018) 0372 - c8-0227/2018 - 2018/0197 (cod)) (a8-0094/2019).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. we listened attentively to the commissioner and her critical remarks on the european parliament's amendments as an interesting start to the debate. i would like to say that parliament has clearly supported the european commission in simplifying the procedure, reducing the number of objectives, defining more clearly the issues relating to urban areas, but on some issues parliament has a slightly different opinion from the european commission, also in setting the individual objectives and this does not indicate less efficiency but more coherence of the programme. the european parliament also has a slightly different view on the exclusion of investment, just as it has a different view on thematic concentration. in any event, we think that the european regional development fund is a good proposal in financial terms, but it requires, in the opinion of the european parliament, the necessary amendments.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i shall begin with a recollection of the beginning of this parliament's term of office. at that time, cohesion policy may not have been criticised, but its existence, objectives and effectiveness were called into question. i remember that when i was minister of culture, we were able to implement a huge number of projects in poland with european funds and with extremely positive results, and even to arouse a certain envy of the quantity and quality of the goals achieved. today, cohesion policy is not only defended, not only properly justified, but, which i think is extremely important, it is also given added value. i agree with those who fought for the cohesion policy to remain: jan olbrycht and danuta hübner. this is when their voices were heard, to not only defend but also strengthen cohesion policy. i think that at this point we need to rationalize the objectives, ensure the consistency of the messages addressed primarily to local governments, and correct certain things. but overall, i think we have a good document and a positive outcome to the debate.
mr. chairman, please! the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund are undoubtedly among the most effective instruments for strengthening real economic and social cohesion in the european union and for reducing disparities between regions. these funds allow us to support, among other things, local development in both rural and urban areas, small and medium-sized enterprises and digital technologies. i am glad that we have managed to draw up a balanced document which allows for the support of such important investments as the railway. i also think it is particularly important to have more flexibility in the selection criteria for investment, so that member states and regions can decide on investments that better meet their individual needs.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 27 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by evelyne gebhardt and axel voss, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain aspects of contracts for the supply of digital content (com ((2015) 0634 c8-0394/2015 2015/0287 ((cod)) (a8-0375/2017) and the report by pascal arimont, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the amended proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods concluded over the internet or at a distance, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2009/22/ec of the european parliament and of the council and repealing directive 1999/48/ec of the european parliament and of the council (com (2015) 0378-0437) (a8-0378/2018) (cod))
mr. chairman, please! we are today examining two draft legal acts that are essential for the establishment and proper functioning of the european digital single market. i would like to thank our rapporteurs, in particular mr axel voss and mr pascal arimont, for their contributions to these two reports. they are designed to achieve two main objectives: first, to ensure that buyers who buy goods and services both in a traditional and digital distance channel via the internet have the same rights. secondly, it is a question of harmonising the rules across the union and above all of harmonising them between the different countries, because at the moment the market for online sales is very fragmented. this certainly creates too much uncertainty for consumers, and it is good that both reports have properly addressed this issue. i would like to stress that the primary objective of both these pieces of legislation is to protect the rights of consumers, and i am very pleased that these reports have been adopted. i urge my colleagues to support them in the vote.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 26 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – the high level of protection of consumers and harmonised contractual rights online are the key aspects of the digital single market strategy, which aims to secure access to online goods and services for european companies and citizens. due to the nature of shopping online, without any physical contact between customer and trader, people who are buying applications, videos, music, software, games, cloud storages and other products and services need to be better protected against unfair practices. therefore, i welcome the proposal on contracts for the supply of digital content and digital services. we need harmonised rules applicable across the eu, since the european online retail market is still vastly segmented. fragmentation creates additional barriers and obstacles not only to shopping online but also to the expansion of business practice to other states of the union. the proposal sets specific conditions regarding software-updates, rights for remedies for faulty digital content and terminations of contracts. i am glad the issue of remedies was addressed on the eu level, since based on statistics only 10% of the 70 million europeans who have had a problem with digital services received any kind of compensation. this directive unifies the rights of customers online with those shopping offline.
mr. chairman, please! for several years now, i have been a strong advocate of not changing the time for summer or winter, and i think that the meaning of these changes is long gone. but it's worth noting the disturbances that come with changing time twice a year, to winter or summer. i also recognize the need for harmonization, which is obvious, and for a certain period of preparation for this decision. i think that the present proposal, namely the 18-month period, is far too long. in a sense, it is a proof of the inefficiency of the european institutions, of the unwillingness to act efficiently where we are expected to act efficiently. i therefore call for the change in the timetable to be stopped and for this preparatory period to be reduced to a maximum of one year.
mr. chairman, please! this case we're talking about is a big deal. it affects practically every citizen whose life rhythm is disrupted twice a year, but also the calendar. it is also of great importance for business, for the economy, for transport, for tourism. for these reasons, to put it simply, i am in favour of change. but i have to be honest with you, i have my doubts. so i'm asking you to think about how you can achieve those goals. firstly, the deadline for introducing these changes is being pushed very far ahead, and that is worrying, but secondly, we are in danger - as is clear from the discussions and attitudes of the member states - of having different times in different countries in the same european union after the changes. it's not supposed to be like this.
mr. chairman, please! finally, something i could support and vote for with a clear conscience. it turns out that you can write a document that has no reference to women's rights, gender equality, lgbt, no ambitious plans, no leverage, no sending strong signals to the whole world. and while something as simple as abolishing the time change took us a couple of pages here, i think it's some progress, so i'm happy to vote yes this time. the government will finally get off our watches. if you want to get up early, you can get up early without turning the clocks, and especially without forcing everyone else to do it. that is why i think this is one of the few good changes that parliament has made at the end of this term.
mr. chairman, please! i'm against excessive regulation, excessive governmental interference, excessive state interference in solutions that occasionally, and usually always, result in some financial cost. i would point out that in this case we are de facto voting on four motions. these conclusions form a coherent whole, not quite coherent, but good, that is, in certain minima coherent. we have here the empowerment of the recipients themselves, which is very important, we also have at least the willingness, the intention to strengthen climate protection, that is to say to reduce emissions, as well as we are trying to regulate these regulations which have been so extensive that they have harmed de facto everyone. i would like to stress the need for transitional periods and for action to be taken in advance so that those who are the target or the subject of these regulations have time to adapt to the conditions imposed by the european union and the european institutions.
mr. chairman, please! the work on the gas directive was difficult and time-consuming. it's very good that we've reached an agreement. the new directive's greatest achievement is to cover all imported gas pipelines within the european union, including in territorial waters, under the third energy package. infrastructure supplying gas from third countries will also be covered, so that new pipelines cannot be built in a legal vacuum, as was the case with nord stream 1. the change in legislation will have a positive impact on europe's energy security and prices. i hope that the new regulations will apply to nord stream 2 as soon as possible. i would like to thank mr buzek and the entire negotiating team of the european parliament for their hard work and commitment to the negotiations. i voted strongly in favour of the directive in today's vote.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the internal electricity market in the european union needs to be changed. the plan should empower energy consumers, improve cross-border trade, ensure security of supply, facilitate the production of electricity from clean sources and thus provide citizens with a healthier environment, a better climate. to achieve this, we need to move to a low-carbon electricity generation system, integrate a lot of distributed renewable energy sources, introduce decentralized energy production, of course also involving the electricity consumers themselves, but what is very important is that we need to create an effective power market, and with public support, without this we will not achieve this goal. the rules we are debating are going in that direction, and that is why i support them.
mr. chairman, please! we're all in this together! i told you not to join the union. but if you give someone a beating, and they get over themselves and say they can cheat us, then to expect that they won't take advantage of it and that they'll refrain, that's really reckless. and we didn't just have a bat on top of us in warsaw, we had another bat on top of us in brussels, and now we're going to have two batons, one from one, one from the other. warsaw or brussels, your freedom is in jeopardy. why do they do that? we have a crisis? are we short of creators? do the creators starve? do we have poor access to culture? no, it's as good as it's ever been, we've got a creative explosion, the media companies are rich and they're coming for more. in fact, it's just an excuse to start controlling the last bastion of freedom in the world. for them, for these bureaucrats, for all these freaks here in parliament, the internet, which is self-organizing and self-regulating, is simply a remorse, proof that the world can exist without their stupid regulation.
mr. chairman, please! if i had known about mann's speech earlier, i wouldn't have said anything, because i could have signed it today. that's what i wanted to draw your attention to. i would just add that although the work was short, a year, the work on the solutions themselves has been ongoing since the beginning of this term, and the number of amendments shows not only an interest but also a desire to spoil this report, that is, to bring about a situation in which this resolution and our work will not produce results. i am very pleased that it has been rejected and that so many compromises have been reached which make the report acceptable and make it a step forward. but i would point out again that there is a certain laziness in the preparation of such regulations and that the pace of work determines our effectiveness.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased that parliament has adopted the report of the committee on tax evasion and money laundering. i'm also pleased that we've gained broad cross-party support for this resolution. as coordinator of the tax3 committee for the european people's party, i worked very closely with the rapporteurs to reach a compromise that would be acceptable to the widest possible political spectrum and that would indicate very clear recommendations for the european commission and the member states. i would like to say that this is the culmination of a process which has been going on in the european parliament since the beginning of this term, and which has resulted from the fact that the fight against tax evasion and money laundering has been one of our main objectives. the result is a report that the citizens of europe are certainly looking forward to.
mr. chairman, please! financial and tax crimes deplete the budget of both the european union and the member states by huge amounts. vat fraud alone causes losses of eur 50 billion, which is eur 100 for every eu citizen. it is high time that action was taken to curb this practice, especially since the member states' services are reluctant to cooperate and exchange information to a limited extent. this is a fundamental problem in the fight against financial and tax crimes. in addition, some governments, because of their tax model, are generally against prosecuting fraud in this area. tax fraud not only hurts member states' budgets, but also weakens competition in the single market. smes cannot afford to hire advisers to answer how to optimise their taxation. in principle, it is difficult to give reasons why we should continue to maintain the existing situation and legal solutions. they do not serve the budgetary policy of the union and the member states, nor do they strengthen the european economy. for all these reasons, i believe that it is a good idea to create a pan-european legal framework for cross-border investigations of tax and financial crimes, and i therefore voted with full responsibility today in favour of the report prepared by the tax3 committee.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the committee on culture, i would like to make two comments on the discharge. the first opinion concerns the budget itself, the second opinion concerns the translation centre. as regards the opinion on the budget itself, we note two very important elements, and i would add immediately positive ones, firstly, the implementation of the erasmus+ programme: not only the tendency to increase it, but also the correct way of implementing it. this is so important because we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of this program and the more than nine million students who have already benefited from it. the second thing is the approach to creative europe and europe for citizens. we have a lot of satisfaction here with one exception: too little absorption in competitions at about 2021%. we've consistently found this program to be undervalued, and it should be better implemented. as for the translation centre, the opinion is positive.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have this feeling of déjà vu because we meet every year in the discharge procedure and we stress the lack of cooperation with the council all the time. i'm starting to feel like this is some kind of never ending story, that we're all saying the same thing and there's no breakthrough here. i don't want to talk about it anymore, but it's an amazing thing. i would like to speak about the discharge to the european commission in the context of certain problems concerning the asylum, migration and integration fund. for this fund as well as for the internal security fund of dg home, the erroneous determination of the error rate should be corrected as a matter of urgency. i would also like to say in conclusion that the situation with the council is a permanent situation and that should change.
the next item is the report by miriam dalli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down emission performance standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles as part of the union's integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles and amending regulation (ec) no 715/2007 (recast) (com (2017) 0676 - c8-0395/2017 - 2017/0293 (cod)) (a8-0287/2018).
excuse me, there's a blue card for you from mr. rübig. will you accept this blue card?
i understand that today we are witnessing a dispute between the coalitionists in the government of the federal republic of germany, but we don't have to watch this spectacle. i'm asking you to behave in a civil manner.
mr. chairman, please! it's not an optimal solution, it's a compromise. the difference between a compromise and an optimal solution is that in an optimal solution, everyone is happy, and in a compromise, there are costs and there are two sides. on the one hand, environmentalists are calling for faster and more extensive implementation of the solution, and for better climate protection. those of us who are car manufacturers are aware that the pace we're proposing is going to generate costs, and those costs are serious. there are countries -- and you can see it in this room -- that are car producers, and there are countries that are consumers only. what i want to point out is that there are too many technical data gaps, that is, the effects, the costs, which are often calculated in a separate way. i am drawing attention to this because it is a fairly balanced solution that we are proposing, and it must be balanced and well applied in practice.
thank you very much for this discussion and for your closing remarks.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 27 march 2019.
the next item is the report by mr piero antonia panzerigi, mr cristiana dan preda, mr frank engel, mr charles goerence, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for neighbourhood, international cooperation and development (com (2018) 0460 - c8-0275/2018 - 2018/0243 (cod)) (a8-0173/2019).
madam president! as i recall, the current instruments - namely external action - expire at the end of next year. they must therefore be replaced by new instruments and it is good that they are amended, that they are corrected. what that means is that we're taking a variety of experiences, both good and bad, to make these instruments better. this is not a small amount of money, it is close to 90 billion euros, so it is important that the instruments are well matched, coherent, as well as giving the european commission the opportunity to take effective action, eradicating poverty, promoting democracy, also interfering in those economic activities that are important from the point of view of europe. i will also stress, on behalf of the committee on culture, the call to use the instruments that are included, those that are inclusive, such as creative europe, the erasmus+ programmes or what is also ending horizon 2020. and in my estimation, a skilful use of the broad culture, of all these cultural industries, but also of educational programs, scholarship programs, will make this instrument more effective.
madam president! the concern we have for events in algeria is understandable. not only is it a country geographically close to europe, but we all remember the events of the 1990s: that last democratic experiment that ended with the victory of the islamic salvation front in the elections, a bloody civil war that not only affected europeans in algeria, but also spread beyond algeria to europe. i am in this context - although i am opposed to this european commission - i must accept with appreciation what commissioner hahn has said about following events and the growing conflict in algeria with great calm, patience and caution. yes, it is in europe's interest to find a peaceful solution to this conflict, and in any case we cannot make the same mistakes that we made in neighbouring libya or in other countries during the arab spring.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. five years since the annexation of crimea, five years of compromising our policy. russia's security has not been compromised in the slightest since then. europe could not even afford to stop the construction of nord stream 2. and let's remember that while the first nord stream was designed to isolate the baltic states and poland, nord stream 2 is directly aimed at the energy isolation of ukraine. only symbolic personnel sanctions were supposed to be a manifestation of our disapproval, but the strategic balance was not restored in any way. the whole situation shows the unfoundedness of the european union's aspiration to build a common security and defence policy. yes, institutions must be built on top of politics, and unfortunately we do not have a policy of solidarity in this respect. all that remains are empty gestures.
mr president, for five years already the russian federation has been occupying crimea, and the indigenous people of this peninsula – the crimean tatars – perishing most. this is the third wave of violations against this community. the first happened in 1783, with the massive deportation of crimean tatars by the tsarist regime. then in 1945, josef stalin once more deported the indigenous people of crimea en masse. now they are a minority in the peninsula, perishing in huge waves of violations, with disappearing children, with political prisoners, with arrests and suffering, and with violations of human rights. now this year, crimean tatars – together with the whole of ukraine and hopefully the whole international community – commemorate the 75th anniversary of the last deportation. i am grateful for your statement, commissioner. i echo your appeals to free political prisoners and to give the territory to ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. well, i mean... i think we should learn from the arab spring, and that learning is also too hasty sometimes to look at the situation in the region and sometimes to support those political forces that in the long run can cause even more problems in those countries than they did before. and i think a little bit of that realism, that pragmatism, would be useful in evaluating these accidents. we must certainly support those people who want to have the values we have here in that region, but we must also be very careful that this is not the introduction to activities that are unfavourable to us.
mr. chairman, please! the arab spring is a very important experience, a very important lesson that you can't forget, a lesson in responsibility. and this is not about some abstract political realism, but about simple responsibility to the people, because the arab spring is a civil war in syria, a war that is to be fought for democracy to the last syrian, is a civil war in libya. the arab spring is also the context in which isis emerged. i agree with the voices in this room that we must be involved in the development of the maghreb countries. in development, definitely, but that doesn't mean we should engage in conflicts with unpredictable outcomes, especially since we're already seeing these tragic outcomes today.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as always, there is good news and there is bad news. the good news is that the council has managed to set out a clear timetable, and that was accepted by the united kingdom, and hopefully the solution will be found within the timetable. but let us leave britain to the brits. my concern is the european union. the bad news is that the eu still seems to continue pursuing the same policy of deterrence, which roughly speaking consist of two elements. first, to punish the united kingdom by a no deal, so that no one in the future would dare to follow in their footsteps. and secondly, to humiliate the united kingdom by inducing them to undo brexit by organising, for instance, another referendum. they’re using the argument that it was a very small majority that decided about brexit. well, if it had been the other way round – if the remainers have won by the same small majority – their verdict would have been considered here in this chamber as absolutely irrevocable and binding for eternity. (applause from certain quarters) not to mention the fact that organising referenda until one gets the results one wants is a peculiar contribution of the european union to the theory and practice of democracy. (applause from certain quarters) so this is foul play. but the bad news is also the tone of self-congratulation which we have heard today. this is not a time for self-congratulation; this is a time for self-appraisal. president juncker, president tusk, let us admit it: this has been the most crisis-ridden period in the entire history of european integration. brexit is one of several crises, and all of you who have taken the major decisions in the european union are responsible for it – do not delude yourselves. a great share of responsibility is with you, gentlemen, and ladies too. president macron recently wrote a letter to everybody in europe, and he proposed more of the same – more centralisation. the funny part of it is that he called it a ‘european renaissance’. apparently, he does not understand the meaning of the words he is using – ‘european twilight’ would probably have been a more adequate term. (laughter and applause from certain quarters )of course, the brexit clock is ticking and we are all aware of it. we await progress in london, and hopefully this will happen. but we should also be prepared for any outcome and we should be ready to offer any help that we can. this is our problem too, whatever the outcome, and we should be friendly to the decision of the british people – whichever way they go. but the clock is also ticking for the european union, ladies and gentlemen, and you should be listening to voters across europe. there are more and more voters desperate for change, and change will happen. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! my countrymen back home should be surprised by mr legutka's voice today, who speaks with sympathy about brexit, while his own party, the ruling party in poland, stubbornly denies that it wants a 'polexit' and is currently trying to get the european union out of poland, which is not going to work. the lesson of brexit should be remembered in poland, too, in every corner of europe. so far, the only positive fruit of brexit is the mass pro-european demonstrations in the islands and the silence of those who were still in 2016 typical of potential brexit imitators. but above all, the history of brexit teaches us what happens when you are politically irresponsible, when you put your own society in front of an existential choice and then you can't handle the consequences of that choice.
madam president! i think we should end the brexit debate, which is full of emotion, and use this issue for internal fighting. nigel farage has already criticized the treaty of versailles as humiliating for britain. this is absolute nonsense. it is worth going back to the agenda of the european council. i want to say that i highly appreciate the provisions that concern geopolitical issues, especially the maintenance of sanctions against russia. this is a condition for european solidarity. if we are to speak of solidarity in the real sense, then the security of eastern europe should be treated as the security of all europe. as for decisions on economic issues, on the competitiveness of the economy, we must ensure that they are absolutely consistent, because the document says that we attach great importance to building the single market and to removing the barriers to the development of entrepreneurship, but practically every session of the european parliament we are dealing with the adoption of acts that increase the barriers to economic freedom. today we are voting on the regulation of european transport, so it is worth being consistent on this issue and removing the barriers to economic freedom in europe now.
madam president, for 122 days the withdrawal deal has been on the table and here again, today, we are in a crucial week of important votes in the house of commons, awaiting this time when the outcome of the vote will be determined and citizens will see a way forward. the limits of uncertainty – both economic and political – were pushed to the limit during brexit, and not by the european union. we, the european institutions and the member states, have spared no efforts to provide as much certainty as possible to this process. the strasbourg agreement, approved last thursday by the european council, provided one more layer of legal certainty – not only to the withdrawal agreement, but to the whole process. so let me finish by saying that if the option for a longer extension is seriously discussed, if there is in uk a cross-party debate and decision on a renewed political declaration, we urge you – the british political parties – to do it in a way respecting citizens and their rights and avoiding the creation of uncertainties for them. (applause)
madam president! i don't think anyone in this room believed that the british people would make the decision to leave the european union. we didn't believe, looking at history, that they would succumb to the populism and the words that mr. farage was pouring out of this room. today is a complete mess. the british people and the british economy are paying a huge price every day for this decision. i hope that the example of the uk, brexit and this chaos will be a good lesson for all those in europe who dream of leaving the european union, who would like to pour this poison of hatred into the european union. and i hope that after the next election, there will be no populists in this room, no people who are happy with the money and the diets of the european union, and the european union is something that should be abandoned and destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! mr weber said that if article 7 of the treaty on european union does not work in this way, if it does not produce the effects that the dominant states and political forces in the union would like, then we must bypass this article and work to produce the effects that the future president of the european commission would like. or should we simply respect the position of the governments of the european countries represented in the european council? since there is no majority that wants to continue these adventures against poland and hungary, it may be worth noting that the treaty of union did not want such easy decisions that would divide europe. if mr weber, the president of the commission, does not care about the rule of law, if he does not care about the pluralism of the positions of all the member states of the european union, if he does not care about the most basic rights of minorities, that is to say, the rights of the opposition, of those who hold a minority position, then perhaps the unity of europe will at least matter to him, and that is to avoid deepening the divisions, which are really too many.
madam president! i wanted to appeal to the president of the european parliament and to all the political groups not to vote on the mobility package in this parliament. it's election time, time is short. the 1500 amendments, the lack of compromise and the ability to agree on them show that in such a short time we are not able to prepare a mobility package that is transparent and understandable, that respects european freedoms, that respects the single market, that restricts competition and that does not impose costs on european consumers. we cannot act under political pressure and, as mrs delli said, look only at the interests of our own countries. i hope we stick to that. what is happening in the european parliament is outrageous. we all want to fight abuse, but can you talk about fighting abuse when you want to go home with an empty car? is the fight against abuse to be fought by agreeing to include cabotage in the delegation, i.e. applying the same rates to all drivers? and you want to limit the cabotage operations and forbid the drivers to return to the country within five days. is the fight against abuse that you want the driver to sleep in the hotel when there's no parking and no hotels? as a counter-rapporteur, i was open to any proposal, but i cannot accept restrictions on freedom and competition and protectionism. this is unworthy. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i think there is too much emotion and the inability to reach compromises to finish this package in this term including the trilogues. if we are talking about social issues, i said that cabotage operations, that is to say operations carried out in a country other than the country of origin, are covered by the secondment. we agreed to this, which means the same hourly wage regardless of the country the driver is from. then why, sir, is there a desire to further limit these operations? why do you want to delegate the transit? so it's a car that travels through several countries. you want to destroy small and medium-sized enterprises and restrict competition. these are facts.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! what are we talking about today? the conditions of the drivers, the conditions of their rest, the tachographs and god knows what else. but we know that's not the case. because if that were the case, the truckers wouldn't be protesting outside parliament today. the mobility package is not about making things better, especially for drivers, but about cutting off the peripheral countries, especially those in eastern europe, but also those in southern europe, from the common transport market. the mobility package is not about working conditions and travel. the only thing that matters here is to divide the european single market. the countries that joined the union in 2004 took for granted that we had a common market, developed their transport sector and today they want to cut it. that's why i'm in favor of talking about all these issues that we're talking about here - working conditions, etc. - but also coming to some kind of compromise. because what kind of compromise is that if we have 1,600 amendments to vote on in plenary? is that a compromise? there is no compromise here. parliament should therefore no longer be voting on this. let's move this to the next term. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honorable gentleman will send! this isn't the first time we've met. of course i supported compromise. these compromises were rejected by a majority in the european parliament last year. today we are not talking about any compromises, today we are talking about controversies, mr. postler, about controversies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's what the european union is for, to have a common market.
madam president! i wish there were at least three people in the room on monday, because then we would have rejected it. i have the impression that this is not about tired drivers, but about something else entirely: restricting access to the market in that part of europe which has simply proved to be competitive in the international transport of goods and people, and that is all. they're telling us: you have no right to be competitive. but if you're too competitive, we'll find all the instruments to knock it out of your head. when i hear that if we don't pass this, the states will take unilateral action, that's blackmail to me. therefore, a driver who handles import/export transport is not a posted worker and that is the end of it. i propose we abstain and postpone until the next term.
madam president! this overestimation of the extent to which the mobility package is ready for a vote is a problem in the context of the forthcoming regulation on the coordination of social security systems, which includes criteria in article 14 to confirm legal posting. criteria which, due to the high mobility of international transport companies, cannot be met. every employer is exposed to a change in the applicable law with retroactive effect. this is true of every european company. thus, a french transport company may at any time be forced to operate retroactively under german or luxembourg law, a german company under polish or romanian law. to avoid the chaos that will follow the implementation of the mobility package, which lacks provisions relating to article 14 solutions, we are obliged to re-examine the package and introduce changes that will allow transport companies to operate normally on the european market. here in parliament, we have a responsibility to develop solutions that will make life and work easier in the single market, while reducing costs and burdens on european society.
in writing. this is a very important debate, because transport is the lifeblood of the eu. transport efficiency is crucial to the realisation of union values such as the free movement of persons and goods. polish transport plays a major role in international transport. it is implemented by 35 000 enterprises employing over 250 000 people. international transport generates more than 6% of polish gdp. the declared objective of the mobility package is ambitious. there is no doubt that the working and living conditions of drivers must be improved, since this is a very difficult job, away from home, and exposed to various inconveniences. the solutions proposed do not take into account the realities of the lack of parking and hotels on the routes. as a result, the proposed package would not significantly improve the working conditions of drivers, but would lead to a weakening of transport companies from central and eastern european countries. many of these firms would lose their chance of functioning in the european single market. the situation for drivers would not improve, and the situation for many businesses could dramatically worsen. i cannot therefore support the proposed mobility package, because what counts is the impact of the proposed legal solutions, not even the noblest intentions.
madam president! i'll start by saying that i'm not an eco-terrorist, but i'm certainly a supporter of this kind of orthodox concern for the state of the earth, the state of the environment. i have to say that the work itself is satisfactory, but the debate - in my opinion - less so. i think we are losing something that is very crucial, which is first of all the value of individual projects. so we don't have a road map, where we can say, first, second, third, fourth, what's the order, the value of each activity. what's bothering me? of course, the lack of complexity of our various activities does not make them a coherent whole. secondly, there is a lack of support for good practice. thirdly, there is a lack of consistency in the legal arrangements across countries to make us more effective. we have a lack of education and unfortunately we are inconsistent in terms of punishments, or sanctions, for those who pollute the earth.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. first, there were drastic limits on cadmium per kilogram of phosphorus fertilizer. strangely enough, these strict regulations hit polish chemical industry first, that is, the azoty group, the second largest fertilizer producer in europe, and russian deposits lobbied. and the stakes were high, because the fertilizer industry in the union is worth 25 billion euros. however, after two years of tumultuous negotiations, such drastic cadmium standards were abandoned and a 60 milligrams per kilogram fertilizer and a three-year transition period with a revision clause are now proposed. it's the ultimate compromise, and there's no way to get below it. after all, no clear scientific evidence has been presented to support such a strict limit on cadmium. we have to remember that phosphate fertilizer is very expensive these days. the higher cost of fertilisers and the concentration of the fertiliser market are destabilising not only the chemical industry but also agriculture in many countries of the union. furthermore, poland has the lowest cadmium content in the soil and, due to the favourable soil parameters, there is no risk of its accumulation. furthermore, the proposed mixing of mineral fertilisers with organic matter is a risky solution, for example due to the possibility of microbiological and antibiotic contamination, and some of the union competitors could invest in production in regions of the world where there are no such cost-intensive regulations. but in light of the above and in light of the potential health risks of cadmium, let us vote to accept this difficult compromise.
madam president! the purpose of the fertiliser regulation is to open up the european market to new products, in particular organic and organic-mineral fertilisers. i particularly welcome the decision to waive the unrealistic, low and completely unjustified limit values for cadmium in phosphorus fertilisers. we opposed these proposals in the interests of the long-term competitiveness of the fertiliser sector in europe and the viability of agriculture and the food industry. however, the 60 mg limits adopted, for which i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr turcanu, are still high, restrictive and will lead to a marked increase in production costs. this concerns not only the level of heavy metal content but also other technical requirements that are imposed on the production of fertilisers. this will have far-reaching negative effects on the viability of both this sector and the agricultural and food production sectors. i would point out that the rules for the placing on the market of organic fertilisers and agricultural and livestock waste as raw material for fertiliser production are still unclear. the introduction of a number of non-agronomically tested fertilising products, the use of which does not necessarily lead to increased productivity and may increase production costs, is also questionable. poland is not only a large producer of fertilisers, but also one of the largest consumers. we are of course keen to regulate the european fertiliser market and to ensure consumer safety, but without compromising the long-term viability of production along the whole fertiliser-agricultural-food chain.
in writing. the majority of participants and observers in the work on the new fertiliser regulations focused on the issue of the cadmium limit and the related possible economic and geopolitical implications. however, this work has also highlighted the problem of the union's very high dependence on imports of raw materials for the production of fertilisers, which are essential for our agriculture and therefore also for food security. over 6 million tonnes of phosphites are imported into the eu each year, and these are hard to come by raw materials. a lot of their resources are in russia. as such, trade in them is not only economic but also political. it is estimated that up to one third of these imports could be replaced by bio-waste such as sewage sludge, manure, manure, meat and bone meal. the potential for recycling organic waste to obtain valuable fertilising ingredients should be used more widely.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to ask for a compatibility study because mrs ward has recently been in favour of sanctions against me, so i'd like to ask if it's permissible to speak to other mps in this way and call them racist and homophobic for no reason.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. speaking on behalf of the ecr group in this debate on parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2020, i would like to stress that next year is the last year of the multiannual financial perspective and that financial decisions and commitments should therefore be made with caution and financial discipline. i am therefore concerned by the proposal to increase administrative expenditure by more than 4,3% and, after taking inflation into account, by more than 2,3% compared to 2019, to an amount exceeding eur 2 billion. the proposals to extend parliament's diplomatic activities and presence in indonesia, ethiopia and the usa, where eu offices are already present, are not very convincing. i am glad that the committee on budgets voted in favour of the proposal for a single seat for the european parliament, which could save some eur 114 billion a year. the rapporteur's emphasis on the need for parliament to respect the social and pension rights of accredited parliamentary assistants, including their access to the pension scheme after two terms of office, deserves particular attention. it is also worth noting that the rapporteur is requesting an examination by the european court of auditors of the voluntary pension scheme for members in view of the major change in the conditions for the enjoyment of benefits recently introduced by the bureau of parliament in this scheme.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. water is a substance essential to life and to the maintenance of homeostasis in the body. water is our common heritage, which we should respect and safeguard for future generations. in view of its limited resources, we should manage it rationally and pay attention to the need to save water every day. each year, between 250 million and 500 million cubic meters of water are wasted in large cities. that's enough to feed 10 to 20 million people for a year. some environmental organizations estimate that turning the faucet on when brushing your teeth in a household of four saves up to three gallons [900 l] of water a month. if our tap leaks and the water drips at the rate of one drop per second, we lose nearly 12,000 liters of water a year. the provisions of this directive therefore aim to further improve the quality of tap water by tightening up the maximum limits for certain pollutants, such as lead, pathogens or substances having a negative effect on the endocrine system. they'll also be monitoring the levels of microplastics. the new rules also guarantee better access to information. if we reduced our consumption of bottled water, european households would save around €600 million a year and - just as importantly - reduce plastic waste and greenhouse gas emissions. tap water is cheap and environmentally friendly, but it has to be super-high quality and it has to be monitored constantly. it should be possible to install free water dispensers in public places, including restaurants. so, moving towards a circular economy, promoting sustainable and resource-efficient drinking water management, which will help reduce bottled water consumption, will in turn reduce greenhouse gas emissions and marine litter. remember, water is life! and finally, the search for life in space begins with the question of whether water is a necessary component of biological life. let's take this information as a civilized warning.
in writing. access to drinking water is a very important issue for european citizens, affecting their daily lives, health and activities. this directive is a significant step forward and builds on the goal of universal and equitable access to drinking water at an affordable price for all and on the european citizens' initiative right2water, which provides good quality water in more than 99% of cases in the union. however, for more than 20 years, the directive has not been substantially amended. it is therefore necessary to adapt drinking water quality standards to the latest scientific evidence and to change the regulatory framework to better respond to new challenges such as climate change and the transition to a circular economy. it is also necessary to maintain the responsibility of the member states for the application of these minimum quality requirements and to give them the appropriate powers in particular within their national bodies responsible for drinking water to assess the risk to human health in the event of exceeding the parametric values.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we see the so-called good antk's attitude from someone else's bag. because where is the money going to come from to bail out failing businesses? i'm afraid it's not going to come from the parliamentary diet, but from the taxpayers, so once again you're trying to help at someone else's expense. money will move from people who manage it better, who are in good financial shape, whose businesses are doing well, to people who manage it worse. and then you'll wonder how we got into this crisis. this money doesn't just come out of nowhere. it's going to go somewhere, it's going to go somewhere. to save one job in a less efficient company, you have to lose two jobs in a well-functioning one, because you still have to maintain the officials who will oversee the operation. so basically, the economy is losing out. to you, it's just a push of a button, but to a lot of people, it's taking money away from them that they could use for something smarter. it's really a pointless movement of money from one person to another through a bureaucratic apparatus.
the question asked by raising the blue card. my question is, how do you want to drive economic activity in the economy with money taken out of the economy? to get that money into the economy, you have to get it out of the economy first, so if this could work, it would be perpetual motion. do you not think that bailing out entrepreneurs who are close to bankruptcy encourages people to take risks and be on the verge of bankruptcy?
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank ms silvia costa for her fruitful cooperation on the new edition of the creative europe programme. of course, the highlight of this report is the doubling of the programme's budget to eur 2.8 billion. we are saying a strong 'yes' today to support european cinema, european filmmakers and artists. i hope that the representatives of the member states will support this budgetary decision when they are working on the shape of the future budget for 2021-2027, because our objectives are very ambitious. the media sub-programme will continue to support the development, distribution and promotion of european films and television programmes. in the coming years, investment in the international production and distribution of european works and innovative ways of telling stories, including works based on virtual reality, will be increased. an online catalogue of european films will be created to increase the accessibility and visibility of european works. the culture sub-programme is intended to support the promotion of the european cultural and creative sectors. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire or rental of furniture and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture and equipment, and the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire and repair of furniture and equipment, and the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as the purchase of furniture and equipment for the construction of buildings and equipment. a new element of this component will be to support the music sector. this is a huge success for the 'music for europe' pilot project which will be integrated into this programme. as a former journalist, i'm glad that the new cross-sector component is funding the media and investigative journalism sector. it is worth emphasising that each component of the programme will have a specific set of quantitative and qualitative indicators. this will serve to collect relevant statistical data and to measure and analyse the impact of cultural policy.
madam president! in the committee on culture, we agree on two issues: the erasmus+ programme and 'creative europe'. we have always tried, at every meeting, on every occasion, to emphasise the importance and significance of these two programmes and their effectiveness in achieving important, well-defined objectives. today i would like to thank mrs sylvia coste, because not only did she prepare today's document, but also, as chair of the committee on culture before, she supported these two subjects which we have spoken about often and usually very - i emphasise this very well - very much. i will focus on two elements. first, we started this parliament with the doubts of other political groups and other committees about the importance of erasmus+. we also started to monitor the creative europe programme to check its effectiveness and the satisfaction of those who participate in it. and i have to emphasize that we have one major problem with creative europe: only 20% of the projects that apply to this programme get approval, get support. this means that 80% of well-designed, valuable and worthwhile projects - in short - end up in the trash. this is the most important argument for increasing funding for this programme. and today i can appeal to at least get to 50 percent efficiency in this program.
madam president! dreams come true, but not always as fast as we want them to. my generation of the 1970s was eager to go on a long journey at the age of 20 to see rome, paris, vienna and many other famous places on our continent. if we could obtain a passport from the communist authorities, we would hitchhik with a backpack on the highways of europe. we absorbed those famous places that had so much power over our imagination: monuments, museums, landscapes. we knocked on the doors of european universities to study in western europe, often facing rejection or having to pay fees we could not afford. today, europe is open to students seeking knowledge. this is a european investment in the future of our continent. i therefore believe that 'erasmus+' will be the focus of the heads of state or government who will decide on the size of the programme's budget. i am pleased that the european parliament's committee on culture and education has voted to triple the funding for the 'erasmus+' programme for students and trainees, which could amount to €45 billion. under the new rules, the program is designed to support those with fewer opportunities. erasmus gives young europeans the opportunity to study, train and volunteer abroad. we also want to give priority to professional exchanges in the education sector, especially in border regions. we have increased the budget for this purpose. amateur sport may also be financed under the 'erasmus+' programme, and under this programme the mobility of young athletes, coaches and sports staff.
madam president! i was rapporteur for a special legislative act which we adopted at the last part-session, here in strasbourg. it was about securing erasmus+ in the event of brexit, a no-deal brexit, with a long transition period. i say this because in the debate, in the discussion, there were also concerns about the fate of this programme in the event of a no-deal brexit, as well as in the event of a brexit with a long transition period. i would therefore remind you that the european parliament adopted a decision at its last session, a legal decision, which protects us against these two possibilities. it is worth saying or adding that the british side must of course take a similar step. but today we can say that the european parliament is better prepared for negative scenarios than the london house of commons.
member of the commission. – mr president, your debate confirms the success of the erasmus programme over the last 30 years. erasmus has become indeed an iconic brand, symbolising the added value of the european integration project for our citizens. it contributes greatly to achieving the objectives of the first principle of the european pillar, which is about access to education, training and lifelong learning. we agree with you that the programme can be and should be more accessible and inclusive, and this is why co-funding from other funds, such as esf+, will be possible, also by doubling the budget we intend to triple the number of people participating in a learning experience abroad. honourable members of parliament, this is not a trick. by boosting traditional mobility, by adding new and more flexible mobility formats, by optimising the grant levels, and by providing targeted financial incentives, we estimate that we can reach 12 million people from different backgrounds. thank you for this rich discussion and for your support in achieving this goal, also in the name of my colleague, tibor navracsics. i’m certain that together we will make this programme bigger and even better than it is today, and that it has the budget to meet this ambition. to answer the question from ms wierinck, i can tell ms wierinck, and i will say it in dutch. ... dat het erasmus-programma zeker toelaat voor artsen en verpleegkundigen als deel van hun opleiding om een deel van hun studie, maar ook hun stage in een andere lidstaat te doen bij een andere universiteit of opstellingsinstelling die deelneemt aan het erasmus-programma.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 28 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the erasmus programme has received high praise and positive feedback from institutions and organisations and individual beneficiaries. the programme has proven its worth and has become one of the eu's flagship programmes, helping to create a new generation of europeans by supporting their education and personal development. every year, thousands of students from all over europe acquire new skills and learn about other cultures. but even the best program has room for improvement. many doubts were raised about the management of the programme, the transparency of the overall structure of the financial plan, the financial guarantees, the recognition of qualifications, the transparency and accessibility of the programme, as well as the procedures for recruiting students themselves. we must all be concerned about the high quality of the programme, its efficiency and its transparency. there is still a long way to go, but i am pleased that the negotiations have largely clarified many of the ambiguities and introduced changes that have the potential to strengthen the programme. the new programme is more ambitious than the previous one. i am particularly pleased with the increased budgetary burden, the inclusion of people with fewer opportunities, the administrative simplifications and the simplification of the criteria for granting the funding.
the next item is the report by mr basa eickhout and mrs sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment (com (((2018) 0353 - c8-0207/2018 - 2018/0178 ((cod)) (a8-0175/2019).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's initiative to establish common principles for the assessment of sustainable investments is clearly needed. consumers are increasingly turning to eco-friendly products - food or energy. they're increasingly interested in the impact of the products they buy on the environment, the climate, or the welfare of animals. these important incentives are often exploited by unfair producers, and harmonised methods for determining which investments are sustainable can bring tangible benefits and curb unfair practices. however, i think that there is a need for some caution in order for this framework for defining sustainable investments to work in practice. first of all, it doesn't make sense to say which investments are bad for the environment. we have a lot of regulations in the european union to limit the environmental damage of business activities. if someone does not break these rules, there is no reason to punish him. let's reward good practice instead. besides, there's no point in adding social evaluation at this stage. i am all for social justice and protecting workers, but it is better to limit ourselves to the environmental assessment for now, and only after gaining experience to see if we can evaluate the impact on workers' rights later. the econ and envi votes are a viable and balanced solution, avoiding negative elements that would jeopardise the successful implementation of sustainable investments. i urge you to consider it.
mr. chairman, please! today we are discussing an important report on the establishment of a framework to facilitate the financing of sustainable economic investment in the european union. the european commission has developed criteria to determine whether an investment contributes to the transformation of the european economy towards environmental and climate objectives. we have an ambitious task to tackle climate change, which is why i support the european commission's proposal. at the same time, however, i believe that the approach to sustainable finance must be realistic and based on technology neutrality. reducing greenhouse gas emissions should go hand in hand with preserving the competitiveness of european industry. we should consider the broadest range of technologies that support the fight against global warming. unfortunately, the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs threatens to eliminate a whole range of investments aimed at reducing co2 emissions. arbitrary exclusion of certain technologies will lead to a situation where sustainable finance will be limited to a very narrow group of investments and will not produce a scale effect. we cannot support solutions that a priori and administratively exclude entire sectors of industry from access to sustainable finance. i think our job is to create incentives and mobilize the industry to do low-carbon activities, not punish them. there's no need to stigmatize and punish entire sectors. the criteria for selecting sustainable investments must be objective, proportionate and based on scientific research, including market research. i therefore call on all colleagues to accept the report as it was voted on at the econ-envi joint committee meeting.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to congratulate once again the co-rapporteurs for their work and dedication, and the shadow rapporteurs for their support in the negotiating of this file. i do hope that this assembly will adopt this ambitious and balanced report, which will provide an excellent basis for further work among the co-legislators. i truly believe that this will be a key step towards making the financial sector work for the planet and for european citizens.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 11.41 a.m. pending the vote.)
madam president! as a result of the arab spring, it is actually the government that has to protect the copts in egypt from the constant terrorist threat. tunisia, which is a model success of the arab spring, is a country where we still see problems in international religious tolerance rankings. but these problems are not really in our report. christians do not deserve to be singled out. and in fact, bisexuals are more visible to the european parliament than copts living under the constant threat of terrorism, copts whose churches are burned if their army does not defend them. all this shows how fictitious the preamble to the treaty on european union is in its reference to europe's religious heritage as a force for inspiring our policies.
madam president! when it comes to the need to raise taxes, the same arguments are always used: that it is necessary for roads, hospitals, schools... even during this session, when we were debating the need for tax harmonization and the methods of squeezing even more money out of the economy and shaking the pockets of greedy capitalists, i heard again the same tearful arguments: that we need it for roads, for poor children, etc., etc. but somehow you never say that there might not be enough money for students who have the whim to go to study in another country, or for ngos in third countries that we want to support, for throwing money around the world, for paying off the debts of careless entrepreneurs (to name just the achievements of this session). every time there is a shortage of money for roads, for security, for hospitals, it is because we spend it on stupid programmes like erasmus and that we allow students from one country to study in another country whenever they want.
madam president! in a joint resolution, our parliament states that venezuela is in a deep and unprecedented political, economic, institutional, social and humanitarian crisis. there is a shortage of medicine and food in this country, and human rights are being violated on a massive scale. 78% of venezuelan children are at risk of malnutrition, and 31 out of every 1,000 children will not live to be five years old. the situation is tragic, and we therefore call on the member states, the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the countries of the region to explore the possibility of establishing an international donor conference to provide broad financial support for the reconstruction and democratic transformation of the country. that is why i voted to adopt this resolution.
madam president! i voted against the resolution by the socialists, the liberals, the nordic green left and others, because after it had been rejected we were to vote against our resolution, the ecr group, and the ppe as well. our resolution contains important statements that were not in the first resolution. we have already pointed out in the first paragraph that since the 'dieselgate' outbreak, considerable progress has been made in the eu's legislative programmes. however, the key point for many diesel users in europe was point nine, where we note with concern that some member states or their local authorities have introduced disproportionate measures, such as restrictions on older diesel vehicles, which make life more difficult for owners of such vehicles, reduce the value of these vehicles and increase demand for older and highly polluting vehicles in lower income countries. i wish we had voted on this report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the action taken by austria against the family rights of foreign workers is clearly contrary to the generally accepted rules and it is good that we all agree on this point. but they also express a philosophy that we see very often, and which has been expressed, for example, in this scandalous anti-hungarian action by president verhofstadt. it is treating europe as a group of countries, some of which are doing favors to others and granting them some special rights. europe is an organism which must be aware of its interconnections. because poland and other central european countries fought for freedom during the soviet domination of central europe, today western european countries enjoy security and can spend much less on defense and put the money toward investment, social policies, and other budgetary needs. moreover, all the data show that our western european neighbours have benefited from the common market. the market is open. we have already endured the very heavy rigors of the association system and it is worth finally realizing that yes, there are those in the budget who may be the net beneficiaries, but the benefits of the open market are mutual, so let's not treat some of the europeans as those who are supposed to be... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. over the past few years, we have been discussing in the plenary the need to build a socially just europe. many colleagues stressed the importance of protecting workers' rights and improving working conditions. we argued about the introduction of the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same place', which many meps supported. it is therefore very surprising that in countries whose flags are emblazoned with the slogan of protecting the rights of mobile workers, there are ideas of introducing an indexation of child benefits. this is contrary to eu law and the values these countries espouse. austria went one step further and, disregarding european rules, introduced indexation as of 1 january 2019. austria thus divided workers and their children into two categories. this is an unacceptable policy and i would like to protest loudly against it today. i protest on behalf of those people who have benefited from mobility, work abroad, build gdp and pay the same taxes and contributions as their colleagues. i protest on behalf of those who went to work, leaving behind their families and children, and who, thanks to the money and benefits they earned, can offer them a better future. i protest on behalf of those who are close to european values based on equal treatment and solidarity.
madam president, i still have to make one comment because what also shocked me in mr batten’s statement was that he called the uk ‘nominally a democracy’. i would disagree. i think it is a democracy in reality. let me start, however, on a positive note, welcoming rather encouraging reports on the launching of the settled status scheme in the uk, but i think that the challenge today is somewhere else. for 129 days we have had a withdrawal deal on the table and we now have a european council decision regarding extension until 12 april. so it is dramatically late, but not too late, and there is still a chance to avoid no deal by accident. but that requires the uk to set a workable plan with a clear end result. it is the last chance for prime minister may to establish, with the leader of the labour party, a common approach, based on what has been lacking so far, which is trust – a common approach that would allow the uk to move forward and avoid no deal. this is crucial because the future of citizens is at stake. all the concerns we see coming out of the house of commons relate to the political declaration, and we are ready to look at different options to accommodate british worries about the future. let me finish by underlining once more that no deal is in nobody’s interests, no deal is not what the european union has striven for and no deal is not what the united kingdom has committed to achieve.
mr. chairman, please! mr verhofstadt attacked my colleague peter lundgren, attacked the governments of the european union countries, even the entire european council, said his piece and walked away. well, i'm certainly not a big believer in our values, but i tend to listen to those i'm talking to, because that's how i understand pluralism. well, some people are only interested in their own opinions, even if they declare pluralism. now a few words to you, mr. prime minister. you spoke of values, of their importance in our lives. i was very pleased to see the swedish religious leaders demonstrate in stockholm in january, calling for the right, or rather the duty, to grant asylum to christian converts, who are unfortunately denied asylum by the swedish authorities. you mentioned the various pathologies that threaten freedom in europe, but you didn't say a word about anti-christian contempt and hatred. and really, how much contempt for christianity is needed to deny asylum to people who are in danger of death in their own country for having embraced the religious heritage of europe? i trust your government will ensure that these principles... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the gas supply is the most delicate and difficult issue for europe's energy security. firstly, we have less and less of our own european gas and we use more and more of it, and secondly, until recently it was difficult to imagine a transparent gas market in the european union with competitive prices. it is essential that the rules of the internal energy market of the union apply throughout the union, including the territorial waters of the member states, which are very important in this case. what do these rules say? ownership, third party access, any pipeline, and non-discriminatory and fair tariffs. the new directive guarantees all this, and it is the end of the era of the monopolists on the european gas market, who either threatened high prices or even the turning of the gas cap. we are, in fact, 10 years behind, because the directive, the third energy package, was introduced exactly 10 years ago during the czech presidency in 2009. i would like to pay particular tribute to commissioner miguel cañete for taking the initiative to introduce this solution, and to the romanian presidency for having been very courageous in entering into the negotiations. following these negotiations, the supplementary gas directive covers all infrastructure outside the european union, i.e. all pipelines supplying the european union from third countries, but in particular newly built pipelines which have not yet been put into service. this directive is therefore not directed against any country or against any supplier of gas to the european union. if a supplier has a problem with this directive, it is more a sign of his intentions than of what we are introducing, because we are only introducing european law throughout the union. and one more important thing. we're voting tomorrow, and that's the end of the first phase of our efforts to have legal solutions, but now there's the implementation problem. this will depend largely on the european commission and the court of justice of the european union. if the european commission's action proves to be inadequate, parliament will monitor and monitor the implementation of eu law. we cannot and will not allow any gas pipeline which is harmful to our energy security or which is incompatible with the objectives of the energy union, i.e. with the principles and values, such as the diversification of sources and routes of gas supply, to be granted any facilitation or derogation under eu law. i am convinced that this is a big task for the new european parliament and the european commission to ensure, because whenever we have good, effective legislation across the european union, it is crucial that we implement it well and in the right way.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i too share the view that this amendment to the gas directive was necessary and that the adoption of the text closes an important legal gap, and in that sense it is a success. i congratulate prime minister buzko, because we have waited a long time for the council to take this directive out of its freezer, where it has been for almost a year. only then we got in a big hurry, and i have to admit, from my point of view, the end result is a little disappointing. the council's position has caused a considerable blurring of the text. and i'm going to mention three things that i think are questionable. this is primarily a question of derogation, since the way in which exclusion decisions are taken and the very limited precise conditions for their issuance are both questionable. secondly, the fact that the decision to grant a derogation is taken by the regulator of only one member state on whose territory a gas pipeline from a third country ends. and there have been times when regulators have circumvented eu law. and finally, we wanted the whole of the subsea section of the pipeline to be covered by eu law, but it would only be territorial waters. and that, of course, is the controversial case of nord stream. there's already talk of a separate company that will operate this section of the river in the territorial waters. that is why the commission's role in monitoring and implementing this directive is so important, and why i would like to appeal to the german government and to chancellor merkel personally to put an end to this investment which is against the interests of the union, against the interests of europe. you have to show that you are indeed the glühende europäerin, as they say.
blue-card question. – some friends of russia here in this room. why do you ignore mr langen from your political group?
mr. chairman, please! the gas market agreement does not bode well for the future of energy solidarity, which, along with nord stream, is being buried for the second time at the bottom of the baltic. the commission's rather good project has been effectively scrapped. everything will now depend on the goodwill of the german regulator and the european commission. given the power of the german lobby, which has been fully involved in the project, this does not bode well. once again, the union's interest has been the victim of backroom deals. germany's double-bad deal with france, which has put a gas project to the teeth on the one hand and given the green light to restrict freedom on the internet on the other, is proof of disregard for eu standards and proof that the particular interests of the strongest member states take precedence over european values.
mr president, let me first of all express my satisfaction that we are in the process of adopting this important document. i would like to express my thanks to president buzek for his work. i think this is a step in the right direction. this directive aims at extending the main principles of the energy union also to the gas infrastructure, gas pipelines that come to the union from third countries; this is very important. these are the principles that ensure that competition is fair and free – unbundling of ownership of gas pipe pipelines and gas itself, free access of third parties to the infrastructure, regulatory oversight over tariffs, and also transparency of contracts. this is all good but, unfortunately, when i look at one very controversial project that has been already discussed here – the nord stream 2 – it is exactly an example of a project that breaks all these rules. we have at the same time the ownership of the gas pipeline by gazprom, which is also the owner of the gas that is going to be transported through this pipeline. we don’t see evidence of transparency of contract, and we see the most important thing: increasing dependence of the european union on gas supplies from one supplier. this is not ideology. we don’t want simply to be dependent on one country, on one source, be it russia or the united states. this is the question of our security. and my question to the commission is this: on what grounds will the commission grant exemptions from this directive in the case of the nord stream 2, given the fact that we have spare capacity in the existing infrastructure to bring more gas from russia, existing pipelines are not yet fully used, and at the same time we have this policy by russia which is based on using gas as a foreign policy tool for the kremlin. can i have clarification on this point, mr commissioner?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. i agree with everything the commissioner just said. i thank you again, commissioner, and congratulate you on putting this directive on the agenda. i particularly wanted to emphasise that decisions on, for example, derogations are made by the european commission and not by a single member state, because we are constantly hearing this disinformation. diversification of sources, gas supply routes will be very important without this, no derogation can be granted. this is very important. i also wanted to stress the important point: this was adopted in the normal procedure of the european parliament. it was not accelerated in any way, at best it was functional. but still, for almost a year, this directive was waiting in the council, so everything was going rather slowly. another point: this directive is not directed against any country. it's always worth pointing out. for example, norwegian suppliers have no problem with this directive, so if mr langen has any doubts, we have doubts first and foremost about those suppliers who have a problem with this directive, because it only introduces a uniform european law on the entire gas market in the european union. and that's the kind of explanation we should hold on to very tightly. as in many other cases, the commission is the guardian of the treaties and of eu law, and so it is in this case. this is not a new thing, it is not a weakness of this directive. i emphasize this because we have, in fact, obtained in this case basically everything we wanted to obtain. and one last word. it concerns ukraine. we must do everything we can to protect this country, which has a special relationship with us, from the threat of a lack of gas supplies. and this is also one of the elements of this directive, because it talks about a transparent and transparent, fair market in the european union, as well as in the neighbouring countries.
in writing. the amendment of the gas directive is a long-awaited undertaking. it will close an important legal loophole for imported pipelines. we have been waiting for this directive for a long time - almost a year - and the council has not been able to finalise the text. unfortunately, the results are not satisfactory. this is a goodwill text, which assumes that the regulators of the member states - even those who have previously avoided eu regulations - will be impartial, while the european commission will be principled in enforcing eu law. the text negotiated in the trilogue contains vague provisions concerning the derogations and the conditions on the basis of which these derogations will be granted. i'm afraid that these loopholes and inaccuracies will allow for exemptions for a number of energy projects. the construction of controversial pipelines, which threaten europe's energy security, will not only not be stopped, but on the contrary, will be carried out with the legal blessing of the union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european maritime and fisheries fund, which is part of the cfp, is designed to promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture and fish processing. the main priority is to be coastal fishing by boat, which is still carried out by fishing vessels under 12 metres in length and which accounts for around 70% of employment in the european fishing sector. however, in my view, the current procedure for this fund is an attempt to undermine the traditional family-owned coastal fishing by forcing the definition of a small-scale fishing vessel of more than 12 metres and even up to 24 metres in length. if that happens, the fund will be the gravedigger of the coastal fishing industry, not its top priority. another important point. i'm from poland, and it breaks my heart to see the baltic sea die. in the baltic, the larum is playing, the cod, the king of the baltic, is slowly disappearing. this is mainly the result of the european commission's mismanagement of the stocks, and above all the tacit authorisation of industrial fisheries, the so-called forage fisheries. it's a shame the drama off the coast of newfoundland didn't teach him anything. there was a lot of cod there at first, but then overfishing took it away. and despite a 17-year ban on fishing, the newfoundland cod stock has still not recovered. another problem is the dramatic situation of recreational fishermen. the specter of their bankruptcy becomes real in a short time. the codfish in the baltic is disappearing. in addition, it is thin, hence the call to include in the fund the possibility of financial support, scrapping or compensation for the cessation of recreational fishing.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund is designed to promote sustainable fisheries and aquaculture and fish processing, to contribute to the recovery of fish stocks, to support small-scale fisheries, young fishermen and innovative investments. unfortunately, not all of these areas are successful. the main concern is the shift away from the priority of supporting small-scale coastal fishing, which accounts for around 70% of employment in the european fisheries sector. the new definition of a fishing vessel, which is being discussed, raising its size to 24 metres, raises serious doubts and needs to be reconsidered. the priority should be to restore the cod stock, which is in a very alarming state. instead, we are dealing with an authorisation for industrial fodder fish. the rational use of fish stocks and the protection of the ecosystem should remain a priority for the eu, with a clear strategy to counter the natural and anthropogenic factors that are causing the current alarming state of stocks and even more catastrophic forecasts.
the next item is the report by clara eugenia aguilera garcía, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the exploitation of demersal stocks in the western mediterranean (com ((2018) 0115 - c8-0104/2018 - 2018/0050 ((cod)) (a8-0005/2019).
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for your interventions and valuable views. i have taken note of the points raised during this debate. this plan is tailored to the specificities of the western mediterranean fisheries, notably with the choice of an effort regime as opposed to catch limitations. this type of management system fits well the mixed fishery prevalent in the sea basin and is easier to control and monitor. with this plan we have struck a good and realistic balance between the conservation and socio-economic dimensions through a progressive reduction of the fishing effort to achieve maximum sustainable yield. this balance is also a factor of the additional measures provided for in the plan, chiefly the closure areas that contribute to reducing fishing mortality and improving selectivity of fishing. going forward, the commission services will work closely with the member states towards the implementation of the plan. in parallel, member states will have the opportunity to review the operational programmes under the fisheries fund and introduce measures to facilitate this implementation. allow me to say that, at a time when the commission mandate is coming to an end, we are very proud to be part of the adoption of the first eu multiannual plan in the mediterranean sea. we are confident that this will contribute to more sustainable fisheries and pave the way for a better management of mediterranean fisheries.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 april 2019.
the next item is the report by mr gérard depreza, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on enhancing the security of identity documents of union citizens and of residence documents issued to union citizens and their family members exercising their right of free movement (com ((2018) 0212 - c8-0153/2018 - 2018/0104cod)) (a8-0436/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, our right as european citizens to move freely within the union is one of the most important achievements of european integration. it requires that the documents we use when exercising this right are secure and reliable. a number of member states still issue id cards that do not meet international standards. some even issue paper id cards and many such id cards remain in circulation. weak id cards represent a serious security gap. they can easily be falsified and could be used by terrorists and other criminals to enter the eu. that is why the commission proposed a regulation to strengthen security features for id and residence documents in april 2018 as part of a wider package of security measures. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gérard deprez, for his excellent cooperation on this initiative. his efforts to find acceptable and workable solutions were tireless and, in the end, successful. let me also thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work and commitment. last but not least, let me thank the romanian and austrian presidencies for their efforts. i would like to stress that the regulation does not oblige member states to introduce id cards if they do not already issue such cards, nor does it make id cards mandatory in those cases where they are optional. in these situations citizens will continue to use a passport instead. also, the new rules on id cards cannot serve as a legal basis to introduce national databases containing citizens’ biometric data. regarding biometrics, i know there have been intensive discussions on whether id cards should contain a chip with the fingerprints of the holder and whether this should be compulsory for all member states that issue id cards. we have consistently argued that fingerprints are a necessary security feature. the inclusion of biometric identifiers, and particularly the inclusion of fingerprints, renders documents more reliable and secure, and having secure and reliable id cards is in the interest of citizens. fingerprints on id cards is also consistent with the approach for passports. many member states already include fingerprints in their id cards or may be planning to do so, but only an obligation at eu level can make sure there is no weak link in our area of free movement without internal border controls. at the same time, we agree with parliament that robust data protection and fundamental rights safeguards are essential. thanks to parliament’s efforts, the text makes clear that member states are fully responsible for the safe handling of citizens’ data. changes introduced by parliament will also make sure that the keys necessary to verify biometric data stored on the chip are exchanged between the member states. to summarise, the new common minimum standards will make sure that eu citizens can rely on secure and reliable documents. we fully support the compromise found by parliament and the council and look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions and again, many thanks to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs. i’d like to make a very short comment related to the mandatory fingerprints. they were included in the preferred option as it was decided to give more importance to the criterion aimed at improving security. at the same time, there are several very important safeguards introduced in the proposal. the safeguards in the text ensure the protection of citizens’ personal data. in response to the requests by parliament’s representatives, many recommendations by the fundamental rights agency have been included in the text. as suggested by the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor, the text makes it absolutely clear that it does not provide a legal basis for databases for the storage of biometric data. we fear that the opinion of the european data protection supervisor might have been based on some kind of misunderstanding of the encryption used for fingerprints on the chip of id cards. contrary to what is stated in the opinion, the fingerprints on the chip can only be accessed by authorities with the necessary certificates. we believe that the safeguards introduced in the text ensure the protection of citizens’ personal data, and we welcome parliament’s effort in this regard. i am convinced that this piece of legislation is a very important contribution to our overall efforts to strengthen the security of our citizens. therefore, i would like to encourage you to vote in favour of the compromise text. it will make the lives of the eu’s citizens easier when exercising their free movement rights and it will increase the level of security in our union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on eu-china relations (2019/2677 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! just a few generations ago, all the richest and most powerful countries in the world were here in europe, because they were guided by a basic economic sense. they were eager to accept products from areas where production and raw materials were cheap. europe was powerful and rich. now europe seems to be protecting against the influx of cheap manufacturing and even encouraging the increase in the cost of production in our country. so the european union is the slowest growing part of the world, and china is one of the fastest growing parts of the world. and interestingly, the chinese don't need europe for anything. they'll be fine without us. our problem in our economic relations with china is not china's behaviour but the behaviour of the european union, which with its regulations paralyses the economy and increases the cost of production in europe. and that is the greatest misfortune.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for the very good debate. even though there have been some differences in views, i would say that that we have a relatively unified position which is attitude-free. by saying this, i mean that it’s not wise to have any particular negative attitude in our relationship with china; what is needed is an honest assessment of the current state of play. that’s why our communication is based on the assumption that our future relationship with china must be based on fairness, multilateralism and reciprocity. it’s supposed to be very easy to defend by everyone. as i said before, and as everybody should know, china and the eu are strategic partners. we have cooperated, and will cooperate, and want to cooperate with china very closely on various foreign policy-related issues – and also in security-related issues – upholding and enhancing multilateralism on trade. it’s also worth acknowledging that chinese companies are sometimes better than our companies. they can compete with our companies even without state subsidies. but it’s equally important to acknowledge that this is not always the case. we have to make sure that europe can improve its competitiveness, as china will be a major player in the global economy in the coming years, and we have to make sure that our economies can develop so that we can compete on an equal footing when there is a level playing field. even without china, we have to improve our competitiveness when it comes to innovations and other dimensions of competitiveness. china wants to be seen as a developing country. to a certain extent, it is a developing country. when looking at the number of poor people or at democracy or other dimensions of the society, there are features which we can acknowledge as features of a developing country. but, at the same time, it’s fair to say – and honest to say – that china is a military superpower, it’s a political superpower, it’s a technology leader, and it’s a market leader in some areas. that’s why we have to treat china as a normal competitor and strategic partner and cooperating partner. there’s nothing bad and unfair about expecting reciprocity. strategic partners are supposed to provide and base their cooperation on a reciprocal way to cooperate. multilateralism and rules-based systems are very often mentioned by chinese leaders, and when i have had a chance to cooperate with many chinese authorities and leaders, i generally believe that they believe that multilateralism is a good basis for international cooperation. having said this, it’s also honest to acknowledge that sometimes china is using multilateralism and a rules-based world order rather selectively. again, we as strategic cooperating partners must agree that multilateralism means multilateralism, a rules-based system means a rules-based system, and we have to make sure that reciprocity is respected. our relationship with china is very active, and we are willing to deepen this relationship in various fields. but, at the same time, whilst technology, the market and china have developed positively, there are new challenges in our relationship and we want to solve those challenges. we have not chosen the same way as the united states to deal with china. we want to be constructive but fair, and expect reciprocity.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this has been a useful debate and i would like to thank you for the parliament’s continuous engagement and interest in this topic. to conclude, china brings immense opportunities but also important challenges for the eu. addressing this, we require a long-term engagement, both bilaterally and multilaterally. without losing sight of the areas of positive cooperation, it is clear that we need to reflect on how to engage china to undertake market reforms, how to ensure a level playing field, and how to tackle systemic challenges linked to the wto reform process. also, it is of utmost importance that our cooperation with china is based on agreed principles and that it fully respects eu values. this is why human rights are one of the issues to be addressed in our forthcoming summit with china. finally, maintaining eu unity both the within the eu institutions and among the member states is of crucial importance. speaking with one voice is the only way that we can respond successfully to the challenges that trade relations with china present while seizing the opportunities that china provides.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by maria grapini, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of 'customs' cooperation in the field of customs (com ((2018) 0442 - c8-0261/2018 - 2018/0232 ((cod)) (a8-0464/2018)) and the report by jiří pospíšil, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing, under the integrated border management fund, financial support instruments for control purposes (com ((2018) 0474 - c278/2018 - 2018/0253 - 2018/08d (cod)) (a8-0604/2018).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will follow up what the honourable member, mrs grapini, has said. yes, indeed, we are discussing today a very important report on the creation of a new financial instrument to finance the equipment of individual customs offices and thus strengthen the real foundations of the customs union. in short, there are now over 2 000 customs offices at the eu's external borders, with very different equipment, which in turn determines the quality of the checks carried out by these offices. this financial instrument, which would apply, as stated, to the next financial period from 2021 to 2027, is therefore intended to contribute to the standardisation of customs equipment in the future and thus to ensure that the controls carried out at the various points of the external border are the same, are in some way equally detailed and also guarantee a rapid control which does not interfere with the passage of goods across the border. it will not therefore affect international trade at the external border. this instrument, which seems perfectly logical in the light of the customs union, which is a european issue and not just a national issue, has to be said to have been proposed directly by the member states, the member states which are in charge of the external border. however, it should be noted that the draft regulation itself envisages that the funds would be drawn not only from the states at the external border but also from all the states which simply carry out controls on goods entering the eu. i am therefore, as rapporteur, very pleased that this instrument has been adopted and is being implemented, and i am convinced that it will eliminate the imbalance that exists today between the various customs controls, and the only chance is to have the same equipment and the same methodology of controls as those carried out at customs offices. it should be said that the commission's proposal for customs equipment is for eur 1.3 billion, which is a large sum at first sight, but when we consider that a scanner like this costs around eur 4 million, one such device, and when we consider that this is a multiannual financial framework, the amount itself is not that large. we have had a detailed debate on this in the imco committee and our message is not to reduce this amount but to try to increase it in the future. as mrs grapini has already said, the first reading did not include the classic trilogue and there was no political agreement, mainly because the current presidency is not authorised to negotiate the specific form of the financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027. the basis of political agreement on this financial instrument is to know how much money will be redistributed. if we do not know this, we are not able to reach a political agreement at the first reading. this was the view of the majority of the representatives of the political groups in the imco committee, and i eventually came to agree with this view, and therefore there is no political agreement in the trilogue. once it is clear in the autumn what the amount is for this programme, it will be possible to complete the discussion of the whole regulation and move on to the final stage. the benefits are clear, but it's important to know what money will be allocated to this program.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am pleased to participate in this debate today on the two customs proposals: the customs programme and the new customs control equipment instrument. i am replacing commissioner moscovici, who was not able to join us for the debate, so please accept his apologies. on his behalf, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, ms grapini and mr pospíšil, for their outstanding work on these files. the customs union celebrated its 50th anniversary last year. it is the foundation of our single market in which goods can circulate freely. customs help to safeguard the financial interests of the union and its member states while protecting them against terrorism, health, environmental and other threats. this can only be achieved through a deep and operational cooperation between the national customs authorities. these authorities are constantly faced with new challenges arising from rapidly changing technologies, increasing volumes of trade, and persistent transnational crime and security threats. we are here today to discuss the two commission customs proposals that will support customs authorities to answer these challenges. these programmes represent the main eu instruments to achieve the objectives of the customs union. the proposed customs programme is indispensable for the work of the customs authorities. it supports their cooperation, capacity—building, networking and modernisation via information technology development. the programme is the natural continuation of the existing customs 2020 programme and its predecessors which have proven their added value and have been highly appreciated by member states. the proposal for a customs control equipment instrument is a brand new initiative. it addresses the long—standing calls of the member states for support to finance adequate and modern soft detection equipment to control goods crossing the eu’s external borders. it also aims to improve and harmonise the quality of customs controls throughout the eu and contributes as such to the different customs services functioning as one entity. we should not forget that the customs union is as strong as its weakest entry point. the commission therefore welcomes the support of parliament for the two proposals and is grateful for the quality of the reports that offer numerous constructive and valuable adaptations to its text. we are pleased that parliament quickly took action following the adoption of the negotiation mandate of the two co-legislators at the beginning of the year and that intensive and constructive work between the three institutions took place. we regret that these efforts were not able to materialise in an agreement despite the significant progress made and, while an agreement was within reach, the negotiations could not be finalised. today’s joint debate gives us an opportunity to have further discussion and hopefully ensure that we will equip the european union with the programmes of the highest quality. i’m looking forward to the debate.
mr. chairman, please! i admit that i am not very able to understand the logic you are following, because either tariffs are a good thing, in which case they should also be applied between our countries, or even within countries (whatever the harm, never too much good), or tariffs are something bad and harmful, but in that case they are just as harmful between poland and germany as between poland and ukraine, for example. if these tighter controls are more effective, well, it's just that citizens will pay more for goods, we'll have less trade, less competition and higher prices. and all this so that you have more money to waste on other, mostly meaningless, unfortunately, projects. and we're going to spend some of that money right away on that customs inspection equipment that we're talking about. one effective customs check that detects some irregularity - we must not forget this - means many idle checks during which nothing is detected, only citizens waste time in meaningless queues, just because the government is looking in the trunks of cars for extra cigarette packs that it can tax.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am going to follow up on what the honourable rapporteur and the commissioner have said. the debate that took place here clearly showed that there is a general agreement among the key political groups represented here in parliament to allocate funds for the purchase of equipment and better equipping of customs offices at the external borders. that's the basic thing. i am also sorry that the trialogue itself did not take place and that it is not a final conclusion, on the other hand, this is the financial framework from 2021 and there is no problem for the new parliament to complete the negotiations that we have prepared in this way in the autumn, and more or less from 2021 there has been an amount for the equipment of customs offices. i repeat what is important, not only speed, but also that there should be a meaningful amount at the end, that the amount for the technical equipment of the facility, which is now estimated at eur 1.3 billion, should not be reduced, because it is already clear that the interest of individual member states will probably be higher than the amount allocated, and if we were to reduce this amount significantly, it would be more a symbolic support than a real effort to ensure uniform and effective control of goods entering the eu from third countries. i repeat, we are building a customs union within the eu, we are building schengen, but that cannot lead us to be unwary of external border controls, to be unwary of what goods enter the eu, because it is not just about customs, as the honourable member has said, but it is also about protecting the health, life and rights of eu citizens, the rights of consumers to know what goods from third countries are being sold on our market, what goods are entering our market, and we should ensure that these goods are safe and of good quality. so this proposal is clearly in the interests of europeans.
in writing. to deliver effectively on the priorities of the european union, the multiannual financial framework (mff) must both create new instruments and modernise existing ones. with this in mind, the european commission has proposed the creation of new programmes based on previous proposals from member states based on their needs for better management of external and internal borders. in may 2018, the european commission adopted the 2021-2027 mff package, in which it proposed a new integrated border management fund (ibmf), consisting of a financial support instrument for border and visa management and a financial support instrument for customs control equipment. the customs control equipment support facility aims to strengthen controls on goods imported into and exported from the eu by providing financial resources for the purchase, maintenance and modernisation of customs control equipment (scanners, automatic identification systems for registration numbers, portable laboratories for the analysis of samples). i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to clarify the issue of the use of customs control equipment by other entities for additional purposes, so that there is no abuse that hinders the achievement of the objectives of the instrument.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of the femm committee, i'm pleased to see the completion of this groundbreaking and highly anticipated project on work-life balance. i congratulate david cassie on running this file, and all the counter-reporters, experts, organizations that have accompanied us on this journey, thank you for your constructive approach to this project. david cass's report was also considered in our committee, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, because the imbalance between work and home is a problem mainly for women. when faced with a clash between family and professional responsibilities, women are more likely to put their family first. it's mothers who take maternity leave, stay home with their kids when they're sick, and pay the price. it's no accident that we say women sacrifice for the family. career interruptions, slower promotions, lower wages result in an average of 40 percent lower retirement. employers associate women mothers with potential absenteeism and see women as high-risk employees, so they hire them less, pay them less, fire them more quickly. it's not fair. the new law encourages a more flexible approach to workers, flexible work arrangements for parents and a more equal distribution of family responsibilities between both parents, strengthening the parental rights of fathers and the position of working mothers in the labour market. it gives the right to care for the child at home, which is a very valuable part of this offer, because it cements the family and gives parents and children a chance to spend time together. let's remember: a minimum of two months of paid, non-transferable parental leave plus two weeks of paternity leave is an offer that's good for mothers, good for fathers, good for children. that is why i call on all political groups to vote today in favour of this extremely important project. let's be on the side of the parents, let's be on the side of the children, let's be on the side of the family!
madam president, confucius said, "choose a job you love, and you won't have to work for the rest of your life". on the other hand, only a person who is fulfilled and happy in his personal life is maximally productive and engaged in the professional sphere. it would be great if we could keep the balance between these two spheres. the eu directive on this balance is well-intentioned and desirable. after all, strengthening the family's potential and its role in the education and care of children and the elderly is a generational investment and a desirable axiological dimension. the polish constitution explicitly states that the family, parenting and care of the elderly are under special protection of the state. however, it should be noted that these issues are a highly sensitive matter, which member states may regard as excessive interference by the union in matters of family life organisation, care and education of offspring, or even as a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. some internal rules are compatible with eu proposals, for example, in poland, 14 days of paid paternity leave is available for the birth of a child, the union proposes at least 10 days, or flexibility in the organisation of work. however, there is a controversy over the non-transferability of two months' parental leave to the other parent.
mr. chairman, please! work-life balance is very important, very important for all parties involved, for the parents of the child, and for the child. and finding solutions that bring us closer to that state is really very important and very important. let's look at the european parliament and see what this work-life balance looks like for the european parliament's staff, who come to the parliament before 9am and very often leave at almost evening hours. their children are in day care, preschool, very little contact with their parents. i, when my assistant was pregnant, i was trying to look at what flexible working hours were like, what the home office was like for assistants. it turns out that our regulations are actually fiction.
mr. chairman, please! it's not about time, it's about getting good law out of this room. what we have on the ballot today is against the rules of the european union, because it is blocked not by articles but by the names of the people who made the amendment. the house will pass legislation that will not serve consumers or the small and mediumsized enterprises that create jobs in europe, and we in parliament will simply laugh at it. we have tabled it in order to prepare the lists for the vote in a calm manner - i will remind you, nearly 1 400 amendments - in a calm manner for the strasbourg session. that is what we are proposing and i ask all members who care about respect for the electorate and about good law coming out of this house to support this proposal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the ecr group, i ask for a postponement of this vote, as the proposed order of amendment blocks is in breach of rule 174 (2). the blocs are also breaking rule 174 (8) by grouping together the opposing scenarios. we find identical amendments in several different blocks and vote on them separately and in violation of rule 174 (9) of the rules of procedure. we've identified almost a hundred cases of this. the blocks are built based on who made the amendment, not what the amendment contains. this is a vote which has never been taken before and which is completely contrary to the legislative procedure. the european parliament is thus facing a possible infringement of its own rules of procedure and a possible appeal to the court of justice for voting manipulation for the third time in its current term of office. in addition, two of the three projects in question were rejected by the transport committee. therefore, i appeal to you to support our motion to postpone this vote until... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i'm referring to the fact that i'm not able to vote that way because i vote differently on amendments in a given block. and i can't vote for them together, or against them, or for them. this is a disqualification for me at this point, i'm not in a position to vote. you're taking away my right to vote at this time.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the block vote, but if we decided that, if there are roll calls, name votes in the block, then the whole block should be voted by name. it's obvious. i am not saying that we should ignore the roll call requests that are there and vote anonymously when we have obliged parliament to vote by name.
mr. chairman, please! maybe mrs. danuta jazlowiecka has a formal request, or maybe she has some kind of justification. i don't want to interfere with this problem that's arisen, but perhaps a brief voice-over to justify or to make this conclusion would be appropriate. no, i'm not going. i have been working on security issues for almost five years, and i know how important energy systems are, the sovereignty of these systems, legal consistency, and i am very happy to say that these 142 amendments have been replaced by 15 good compromises. this has resolved issues concerning new energy networks in the european union, old networks in the european union, but also old and possibly new ones being created outside the european union. this has allowed us to define in a clear, coherent way all the matters concerning gas transfers. also by separating, which is very important, the ownership of the networks themselves from the supplies that are made within the european union. the last point i want to make is the territorial application of the directive. i think it's done the right thing, and the few exceptions that have been made could slow down the whole system.
mr. chairman, i also endorsed this material. like my predecessor, i feel that in building the energy union we must take into account geopolitical interests and a certain independence from suppliers in addition to economic benefits, and at a time when we see russia as a threat to the eu, to the democratic world, i consider the strengthening of energy dependence on this country to be a major problem. it is therefore good that this resolution has been adopted, this proposal, which extends the rules to gas infrastructure and will touch on the controversial nord stream 2 project in my view. it is good that these are the rules that will make certain russian companies, first of all gazprom, of course, unable to abuse their dominant position and that there will be rules that will be able to regulate their activities.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against it. all you have to do is look at point 42a to see that we've drifted back into the abyss of absurdity. we are here to urge that the gender balance in the fisheries sector be restored or established. i'd like to ask you if you're serious. whether it will be just a blank vote or whether the women who voted for it will, after this term is over - i hope - strengthen the ranks of sailors, fishermen, and those who work on boats. because so far, women don't want to work there, so i hope that if we're asking for it, it's not just a bunch of empty words. moreover, a text as long and boring as this should be rejected for its length and tedium alone, so i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! it is extraordinary that in the european union today we have almost a hundred different kinds, i emphasize the different kinds of identity documents and even more, because there are over two hundred different kinds of documents to prove a certain residence. that's several times more than we have in the united states. it is a good thing that an agreement has been reached at libe, in order to achieve at least some uniformity in the elements that are important from the point of view of security, the security of these documents and the way in which biometric data are collected, so that the reliability and substance of these documents are not in doubt. i voted for this agreement, especially since certain elements of uniformity, of validity were well formulated. i would remind you that in some cases we have a limit of 5 years for young people and 10 years for other eu citizens. in view of the enormous mobility, i think that documents and their weight should indeed be given special treatment, especially since some countries do not consider documents to be necessary or necessary at all.
mr. chairman, please! i am a little different from my predecessor and i must say that i regard this report and the compromises reached as positive. two in particular meet my criteria for validity of this type of document. first, consumers were given the right to buy products cross-border and the obligation for suppliers to offer domestic sub-accounts was abolished. i think it is a move in the right direction and it is good that it has been supported so unanimously by the house. the second thing is to lower the change-over cost limits from 1.5 to 0.5 percent. it's very important that it refers to balances, and it immediately makes the entire market of these retirement services more flexible. i think this report is going in the right direction. and the three-year implementation period gives us a guarantee that it will be implemented well.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i want to say that i have great respect for you and i greatly appreciate your work here in parliament. i volunteered because i wanted to apologize for my absence when there was time for me to speak. and that's because he's been outsourcing for seven years. the press has been asking me for a comment and they've asked me to do it now, which is totally normal. i apologize again for my absence and thank you for allowing me to speak on this matter. i understand that i can. the mobility package that the european parliament adopted today is not sufficiently discussed and is not ready for a vote. they were driven by emotion, by populism, by protectionism, without taking into account data, without taking into account experts, practitioners, analyses, not even taking into account the arguments of the drivers themselves or the transport companies. the end of the mandate and the start of the european parliament election campaign brought emotions to a head. for this reason, the mobility package is the worst document that the european parliament has adopted in this term, a document that will destroy in europe in all member states, i emphasize in all member states, international transport. and the cost of this destruction will be very high for the citizens of the european union. i was ashamed to be part of this procedure. i voted against the bubble that is the mobility package that was passed today.
madam president! commissioner jourová said that if the situation in romania did not change, the commission would take the necessary action. fortunately, this commission will not take any action, it has already taken enough harmful action in this term. at most he can make electoral gestures and mr timmermans, who was asked about, will probably make many more political gestures using his position. but as far as romania is concerned, the situation in romania is difficult, no less complicated than in the uk. i don't like the tolerance of the authorities for so-called petty corruption, because corruption is always evil, and widespread corruption is a universal evil, but i also don't like the permanent, long-term surveillance of politicians, because a surveillance society will never be free. nor will a nation be free if it makes it a policy to turn to foreigners as arbiters of its own problems. this is a problem that the romanians themselves must solve in the interests of europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, the european system of financial supervision has built upon a very specific institutional structure, which draws on a very broad membership, including national central banks, supervisors and eu institutions. in my view, it has also proven to be an efficient coordination platform and also an information hub for the monitoring of the risk from a eu-wide perspective, but there was a clear need to review the regulation in order to take into account the evolving context as well as recent institutional changes, in particular related to the banking union and the building up of the capital markets union. i agree with commissioner dombrovskis that we could have gone further with the change, but we have made, i think, true progress when it comes to enhanced scrutiny tools, democratic accountability, enhanced transparency and independence. they have been addressed during the negotiations as they eventually increased the impact of the esrb actions.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you for organizing the debate today to speak about digital taxation and in particular the fate of the digital services tax, where a council agreement has not been possible. on digital taxation, i know you have been vocally supporting our proposal and i would like to thank you for this. let me start my intervention by briefly recalling why the commission presented an initiative on this issue on 21 march 2018. we did it because the underlying reasons remain valid and the problems that we are trying to fix remain unsolved. this has to be kept in mind while working on this issue during the upcoming months. after all it’s simple, international corporate tax rules are no longer adapted to realities of the modern global economy. they do not capture the benefits derived from digital services when there is no physical presence in the country. the consequence of this inability to apply our current tax rules to these new realities is clear. today profits from certain digital activities are barely taxed in the eu and this is unacceptable. it threatens the long-term sustainability of our public finances. it disrupts the conditions of competition for businesses in our single market and it undermines the fundamental principles of tax fairness. this is why we have proposed two ways to ensure fair and equitable taxation of the digital economy. firstly, a structural proposal to reform the rules on corporate taxation so that profits are recorded and taxed where companies interact significantly with users via digital channels. this is a comprehensive solution. secondly, a more targeted proposal that responds to requests from several member states for a provisional tax on the main digital activities that currently escape any form of taxation in the eu – the digital services tax. this is an interim solution to apply until the comprehensive solution is agreed. as you know, council discussions have mainly focused on this interim solution and we are obviously disappointed that member states have not been able to reach a unanimous agreement on a proposal for the digital services tax, despite the fact that there was a large majority of member states in favour. the failure to reach unanimous agreement on this file is largely explained by unanimity rule, according to which council must decide unanimously on proposals in the area of taxation. as explained in this year’s communication on qualified majority voting, this is just another example of many tax initiatives where the unanimity requirement has hampered the progress needed to strengthen the single market and avoid its fragmentation. in today’s larger, modern and more integrated eu, a purely national approach to taxation no longer works and unanimity is not an effective way of decision-making. this is why we have launched the debate around this topic. in any event, i believe that the complex work that has led us to the near compromise on the digital services tax has not been in vain. firstly, it will provide a framework for our member states which decide to move forward by adopting an interim solution at national level. secondly, we will be able to examine the proposal on the table of the council if the g20 and the oecd on the reform on the corporate tax system have reached no international agreement in 2020. moreover, the proposed digital services tax has the merit of having accelerated international discussion within the oecd and the g20 on the comprehensive solution. as you know, in march 2018 the oecd delivered an interim report in which it committed to reach a long-term consensus—based solution on the tax challenges arising from that digitalisation of the economy and the remaining [inaudible passage]. we strongly believe that the solution to tax and the digital economy must ultimately be a global one. we have to keep up the momentum for the g20 finance ministers discussions last year. i will continue to work and engage with the international community and it will be important to coordinate the european efforts in the oecd. speaking with one voice will allow the eu to put more pressure on the discussions and better defend our interests. it will be important that in our efforts to modernise corporate tax rules, we avoid repeating mistakes from the past, creating new layers of complexity cannot be a way forward. we need to think of a system that is simple and future-proved. this should not patch the system but really reform it.
madam president! i'm very glad that this whole bad idea of another tax has fallen through. this is a taxpayer victory. every penny taken from you, who squander taxpayers' money, live off it and spread it around the world, is a victory for the taxpayers. the only fair system is one where people who have earned an income keep that income for themselves, not one where others take it away from them by force. and it's also the best thing for the economy that money stays with the people who made it, because they know how to make it. if i hear again that you want more money for hospitals, for schools, etc., you lack money for hospitals and schools, cancel meaningless programs like erasmus+, then you will have more money for hospitals and schools. cut off the funding programs for ngos all over the world, in africa, in asia, etc., and you have money for schools for european taxpayers. you take down stupid programs, and then you go deeper into the taxpayers' pockets.
madam president! the european parliament's biggest sickness is its legislative diarrhoea. we release over 500 documents from this chamber every year, that's more than one a day. no one in this house is able to read all that, and certainly no one outside parliament is able to read all that, because people still have to earn their bread and butter, not read everything that the european parliament writes. another effect of this disease is that we vote in an incredibly hasty, sloppy way. voting is sometimes done in less than two seconds per amendment. in practice, the chairman of the meeting admits that he does not look at the whole room, but only at the leaders who sit in the front. so, in effect, the vote is taken on behalf of other members, which is unacceptable because the member's mandate is non-transferable. you cannot pass your vote on to others or assume that everyone votes as the group as a whole. in view of all these irregularities, i have asked experts to prepare a report on the abuse of the rule of law in this parliament. once it's translated into english, i'll send it to all the mps. i hope that in the next term they will be corrected.
madam president! the sight of the burning notre-dame cathedral was a moving sight. at the same time, we have shown that we are a community that wants to live. a community that ortega y gasset wrote about, that lives under the skin, and in moments of emergency, expresses the will of its existence. i would like to thank the european council and its president for their rational decisions on the extension of the deadline. it prevents shock and catastrophic effects. only someone who wishes the uk and europe ill can fail to understand these decisions. i am not surprised by mr farage, because he is taking a firm, selfish line on this, but i am very surprised by mr verhofstadt, who is opposed to this decision and acts as if he wants to push the british out of the european union. once again, dogmatic federalism is working with euroscepticism. this farage-verhofstadt alliance is not a coincidence. the future of the european union is based on confidence in european integration and pragmatic cooperation. i believe that the next eu government will follow this path.
madam president, for the european leaders the new brexit deadline was a difficult choice to make, but openness and constructiveness have won. now it’s up to the british side to use this additional time in a constructive way, and i would like to assure mr farage that we don’t count on him. unfortunately – and it has been disappointing for all of us here – over the last week we have heard comments and read tweets from anti-european english politicians about how they are going to sabotage our work in the months to come. those politicians deserve to be told that we will not allow for that. we will protect the european union and its citizens. the eu will continue to be the source of stability, also for this absurd and sad process of brexit. unfortunately, on the british side there is no sign that a cross-party breakthrough is near. however, what is absolutely clear now is that the real problem is not the backstop. the real problem is the future. so maybe a solution is around the corner. what is needed, however, from uk politics is to define what it really wants.
madam president! the eu directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the european union is an interesting dossier. promoting and building safer and more predictable employment, while ensuring labour market adaptability and improving the living and working conditions of all workers, is the foundation of employee ownership. the feeling of security on the labour market and the legal protection of the employee, including employees on non-standard contracts, is the key to his satisfaction, and a satisfied employee is the best business card and pr of the company, thus a mutual benefit and giving a prospect of development and satisfaction to both parties. but are these principles provided for in this document? well, not exactly. in practice, therefore, care should be taken to ensure that these solutions are prudent, rational and proportionate, that they preserve the adaptability and innovation of the labour market and that they avoid imposing excessive burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular micro-enterprises.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to congratulate the european commission, with the help of commissioner thyssen, on the consistency with which it is introducing the new regulations that are the basis for the european pillar of social rights. the new directive on transparent and predictable working conditions is important for all workers in the european union, but especially for those who take up work on the basis of so-called non-standard or atypical contracts. it's about odd jobs, on demand, on commission, in the check system, through online platforms and so on. one quarter of european union citizens are already working in this way, and half of the new jobs created in recent years are of this type. these workers are not subject to the current directive on the obligation to inform workers of the terms and conditions of employment. the new directive is therefore very important and gives workers additional rights, i.e. they are to receive more information, more precise information and they are to receive it more quickly. but above all, this directive will cover a very large proportion of the growing number of workers on these unusual, non-standard contracts. only those who work less than 12 hours a month will not be covered by the directive. this is a revolution that will benefit women in particular, because they are the ones who are paying the price for the precarious jobs in the labour market. commissioner, we need a smart combination of flexibility of employment with predictability of work, because only predictability gives workers a sense of some minimal security.
madam president! we live in a time of rapid change in the job market. new jobs, new skills and new forms of employment are emerging all the time. flexibility in the labour market is incredibly important for both the employee and the employer. flexible forms of employment help workers to combine work and family life, and employers to adapt to changing market demands. it is our duty to ensure that workers, whatever their form of employment, are guaranteed at least minimum rights at european level. after a difficult process in the employment committee and difficult negotiations with the council, it was possible to develop a directive that, on the one hand, increases the protection of workers and, on the other, does not impose excessive burdens and requirements on employers, while respecting the different models of labour law in the member states. i would like to draw attention to the introduction in the directive of common requirements for the provision of written information to workers on the terms and conditions of employment, basic information within seven days of starting work and extended information within 30 days. a common maximum probationary period of six months is also likely to improve the situation of workers in many countries.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! mobility is one of the fundamental rights of european union citizens. we have posted workers, cross-border workers and millions of people who simply work for years, sometimes for years, in a country other than their own. during this term, the european commission, parliament and the council have held several discussions on the rights of mobile workers. we also talked about the mobility package, the directive on posted workers, the rules on the coordination of social security systems, and we even set up a platform for cooperation between member states to combat undeclared work. these discussions were often controversial -- sometimes very controversial -- and we had a lot of doubts, because this law is very complicated at times. so the idea of having a labour office that informs, helps, supports, helps to understand and apply this law is obviously very good. this office is very much needed. in these debates, however, ideas were put forward to equip the agency with strong oversight powers. and i would like to make it very clear that while i support supporting, informative functions, i am opposed to these control functions, because at the stage of introducing a new law we should help companies understand the law and apply it - this is especially important for small businesses - and not introduce such control functions right away.
madam president! the tasks of the new agency give it a great potential to influence the reality of mobility in the european union. the commissioner highlighted some of them: emphasis on information on mobility rights and obligations, data collection, analysis, assessment of the situation in the internal market, support for cooperation between member states' control authorities. this is just one of the tasks of the new agency, which has the chance to combat the misperception of mobility in europe or the desire to use protectionism. but whether that potential is realized depends on the people who run it, who work in it. this will depend on the actions of both the executive director and the management board and the broad representation of the stakeholder group. i expect the nationality of those in the highest positions to be of some importance. we'll be watching both the process of selecting the headquarters and the selection of candidates for the top positions. it is in the interest of the union as a whole that they should not be questionable and give the impression of condoning protectionism or other obstacles to the internal market. this stage of the creation of the agency itself is therefore crucial for the image of europe and the future of mobility as the engine of growth for the whole european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i'm not saying goodbye. i'm not saying goodbye. i am still fighting for a very strong european union. i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of this regulation which is before us, because it will help to save thousands of europeans from dying in road accidents. it'll save thousands more from serious injury. with these new systems - thank you very much for the support - that we have negotiated, and which will be installed in newly produced vehicles, our european roads will be safer, not only for drivers and passengers, but above all for all vulnerable road users. i'm thinking about pedestrians, cyclists and so on. and finally, the last sentence. road safety is just one of many examples of how the european union is helping to save our lives, to improve our common safety on our roads in a very concrete way, to make europeans safer in our daily lives. and those who want to leave the european union will only understand this after the damage has been done. we speak loudly and proudly of all that we are able to accomplish. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i wouldn't be speaking today if it wasn't for yesterday's debate. two things in particular disturbed me. the first is the actual disregard for this directive, this proposal, by extreme forces who, in short, want to bring about a situation in which many actors in public life are, in short, impunity. but the second element was even more important. well, i'm not just talking about protecting whistleblowers, but also fighting those who are false whistleblowers. i think we have to pay attention to the fact that there are those among whistleblowers who unreasonably, i emphasize, unreasonably often attack businesses or individuals, leading to their destruction either financially or also psychologically. i am pointing out the need for this balance, the right balance. otherwise, the harm may outweigh the benefit.
mr. chairman, please! i have often stressed the great delay of the parliamentary bureaucracy, but also of the commission, in the matters which it deals with. this time it's even stronger. it should be remembered that we are referring to a directive which dates from 1991. that's a very long time to wait to respond to a changing job market. but on this occasion, speaking of work, i want to thank two groups. first of all, i wanted to thank the translators. it wasn't an easy term for them. i have great respect and admiration for their work. thank you very much. thank you. and the second group, that's the group you represent today, the photojournalists. they work under the same conditions, the same conditions, the same conditions, with artificial light. they're a visible group, but too often they're underestimated. and thank you to the photojournalist group. photoservice, thank you very much. good work, man.
mr. chairman, please! we talked about increased mobility at the european labour office. this mobility has almost doubled during our term. it sounds like a compliment, but it's not a compliment, because it's connected to a huge number of problems that have been building up during this term, and we, in short, have not kept up with them. i'm noticing that. but i would like to take this opportunity to thank my political group, the ppe, for their cooperation over the last five years. it was not only easy to work with, but it was rewarding. and i wanted to thank my colleagues in brussels: justyna szczepańska and kamil maj for their very good work, as well as those who worked in wrocław: agata marzanowicz, bartko, also janusz dzikowski, ani mądry. i want it to be heard right here in this room, because they've really done the work that's helped me to serve this mandate properly.
madam president, the crisis in libya is escalating quickly, and we may face yet another proxy war in the making. i call for the immediate cessation of hostilities and a return to the negotiation table, and also an end to general haftar’s aggression. if tripoli falls, we may have to cope with yet another wave of migration – a really big one this time. we support the un-led peace process, the efforts of un special envoys, and also your efforts, madame vice-president/high representative.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! in the case of the libyan tragedy, we are dealing with another episode of this great drama that began in our immediate neighborhood with the arab spring. this is a great tragic lesson for the next european commission and for the people who will take responsibility in this parliament too. our attitude towards our partners in the world outside europe should be judged on the basis of objective criteria, comparing their policies with those that can be proposed as alternatives, but not on the basis of our wishes or our ideology. we see this tragedy in syria. now we see it even more strongly as the fight for democracy in libya escalates to the last syrian or libyan. it's time to really think in terms of responsibility to people.
madam president! i would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the efforts of the high representative and the un representatives. i think the parties representing this civilized world are doing everything possible. but i want to remind you of one thing: knowledge, better, more precise knowledge. unfortunately, the lack of information is what surprises us, sometimes disappoints us. we also suffer financial losses from time to time. most of the time, we're just more helpless. i think that the services that are being set up at the moment should have better quality knowledge, above all so that we can operate in the long term, be more consistent, in short, more efficient. i've spoken on many occasions on many issues, on foreign policy, on conflicts in africa, in the middle east, and what i find unacceptable is this element of surprise, this element of negative surprise, this great drama. so my point is, let's get better, more accurate knowledge.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me restate clearly what i think i’ve already stated several times in this hemicycle. the european union sees israel and the israelis as partners and friends, it sees the palestinians and the palestinian authority as our partners and friends, and we also continue to see our american friends in the united states as our partners and friends. this doesn’t mean that our positions or our policies are determined elsewhere. our positions are determined on the basis of the conviction of what we believe is in the best interest of peace and stability in the region – which is also our european region – and on respect for international principles and international laws, and this doesn’t change. reaffirming clearly and in a united manner, as you mentioned, our position doesn’t mean being hostile to interlocutors or partners that, in the meantime, might change their position. it means being self-confident about the fact that we’ve always believed – and we continue to believe – that, first, ‘might makes right’ is not a good principle on which to base foreign policy. the idea that you can change borders with the use of military force is a dangerous one – in europe, in the middle east and elsewhere. this is why our position on the golan heights has been so clear, because we believe that international rules, international law and international standards must be upheld, and that this is a principle that it is in the interest of everybody to uphold in a very consistent and coherent manner. if you think of the situation in the middle east, but also if you think of the situation in europe or elsewhere, international law affirms it very clearly: borders cannot be changed by military force and this is a principle behind which the european union will continue to firmly stand in a united manner. i think this unity and this clarity together have made us relevant in upholding a principle and a situation in very difficult circumstances. the image i have in my mind at this moment when i think of the middle east, where you actually do not have a process at all – it’s not that the process is stuck, you do not have a peace process currently – the image i have in my mind is that of – i don’t know if this is an english expression, but in italian we say ‘put your foot in the door to avoid it banging’. it doesn’t mean opening the door wide and it doesn’t mean being able to restart a peace process. to tell you the truth, to start a peace process that is consistent today we would need to have an international and regional consensus on the parameters – on the need to have a two-state solution – and you would need to have political will on the two sides and also in washington. on the european side, it’s full and it’s clear. what we have to avoid today, together with our partners in the region, starting with the arab countries – and i think in particular of egypt that has such an important role both in the arab league but also on gaza, and of jordan that has such an important role on the holy places – what we have to avoid is that this trend continues, consolidates and becomes irreversible to a point where, as elena valenciano mentioned, the two—state solution becomes impossible, and avoid that the dismantling of the two—state solution gets to the impossibility of achieving it whenever the political will is there. i know that this is a minimal approach, but you have to be pragmatic and realistic when dealing with foreign policy. i remember that very well. when i started my mandate, my first visit was to israel and palestine. i said back then – almost five years ago, four—and-a—half years ago – that it is possible to solve this conflict, and it is true. i still believe it because the international parameters are clear, but without the political will of the parties and without international consensus – which we don’t have at the moment – on those international parameters, i do not see this process producing an outcome in terms of a two-state solution. we europeans know very well that if it’s not going to be a two-state solution, it’s not going to be a solution. i believe that the israelis know that perfectly well, the palestinians know it perfectly well and the region knows it perfectly well. so i believe that, as friends of israel, as friends of palestine, and as friends of the region – let me also refer to the arab peace initiative that i still consider a good basis for negotiations – the european union is convinced, and will continue to be united and clear on this conviction, that it is in the interest of the israelis, the palestinians and the region to continue to have in mind a two—state objective and a two—state solution. that is also vital. i would like to say this very clearly for those in the hemicycle who have raised this. it is also vital for the security of israelis and of israel as such. i think i will stop here on this point. i am looking forward to the continuation of our debates on the next points.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy , federica mogherini , on the situation in sudan (2019/2703 ((rsp))
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues for their very clear support for the position we have taken in the work we are doing. i would maybe answer a specific question that was raised about what kind of strategy and what kind of alliances we plan to put in place. we are already building to try and achieve this transition towards a civilian government and free, fair and democratic elections. as i said in my opening remarks, as always whenever our positions converge – which happens often – our first interlocutor here is the african union. i refer to the very clear position that the african union has taken in these days, which i believe has been extremely important, also considering what some other colleagues were mentioning: the fact that these changes in sudan are part of a bigger shift, that is a mix of hope and challenges in the broader region around the horn of africa, with some winds of change that are blowing also in other countries. by that, i mean the opportunities that the opening of talks between ethiopia and eritrea is bringing, but also the very severe challenges both from a security perspective and from a humanitarian perspective that the region is still facing. our role, i think, with the full support of this house – and i know i can speak here for the commission but also for the council – is that of accompanying this democratic transition, bringing it hopefully to a civilian outcome, and working hand—in—hand with the african union and the countries in the region to try and make sure that this happens and that, in particular, the women and the young people of sudan find their aspirations met in this transition. but, as with all transitions, it is difficult; there are some opportunities, but also some risks and some challenges. i would also personally like to thank the colleagues that have taken the opportunity in their last interventions in this last part-session of the plenary to thank me, and i want also to reciprocate and say that it has been a pleasure for me to work with this parliament, and in particular with those colleagues that are most involved in foreign and security policy issues. i will be with you until thursday, until the votes at the very last sitting, so i guess that we will have other opportunities to say goodbye and thank each other for the good cooperation we have had during these five years. (applause)
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the council and commission statements on protecting the integrity of european elections, with particular reference to international cybersecurity threats (2019/2696 ((rsp))
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would also like to thank both the council and the commission for the strong commitment visible here in what they said to us. for us, elections are an important element of democracy. compromised cybersecurity in elections can lead to the loss of confidence in the electoral system, in democratic processes and in leadership. europeans are increasingly aware and worried about all aspects of electoral security. a recent eurobarometer survey showed that 61% were concerned about possible manipulation of the european elections via cyber—operations. to fight against cyber—threats and ensure that the cyber—environment is safe we need a society—wide approach as well as international cooperation. in this context, amending european regulations on the statute and financing of european political parties and foundations, aiming at protecting the electoral process from online disinformation campaigns based on misuse of voters’ personal data, introducing financial sanctions on european political parties or foundations that infringe data protection rules deliberately to influence or attempt to influence the outcome of european elections, as well as the commission’s actions to build strong cybersecurity in europe, support and awareness at the level of the member states, all that can help citizens to make their political choices in fair, secure and transparent elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, information techniques, technology and influence operations have been used by russia against the west for quite a long time already, including in elections. what for? to undermine faith and confidence in democracy, to exacerbate existing divisions, to confuse truth and to amplify narratives that are friendly to russia. now, today, the third reading was completed in the state duma of the legal act isolating the russian internet from the rest of the world. what for? we have to learn as soon as possible for our security as well as for the security of the russian people.
i would like to thank mr le pen. to be honest, it wasn't exactly about the debate we're having. but thank you very much.
mr president, commissioner, this is indeed a timely debate, as many speakers have said. i think that we have a lot of evidence, a lot of signals, of hostile interference in different instances in the european elections and also outside of europe by russian trolls and russian vote participants – unwelcome participants in these elections. i am sure that this is something we have to confront very seriously, because this is indeed a practice that undermines the trust of european citizens in the european union. we cannot just stay idle in front of these practices. i would like to tell you, commissioner, that i think that the exchange of information or exchanging good practices is ok, but still, this is not sufficient. it is not enough. i think we should be much more determined in confronting these practices, and i welcome the announcement that the task force devoted to this task will be strengthened. i think we all should take it very seriously, because otherwise this is going to be a threat to the unity and integrity of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i spent two years on the terrorism committee. there, the issue of network security was raised very often. cybersecurity was identified as one of the most important issues. i want to make it clear that the information that is coming out is that terrorists are operating in ways that are not limited to the detonation of specific explosives. they can also blow up election systems with fake news. but i want to highlight one more very important element. and indeed, today, in talking about whistleblowers, we talked about two things at once: the need to protect those who are checking out false information, who are reporting truthful information about the state of public institutions. but it is also important, in short, to fight those who build false messages, false accusations, fake news, as well as accusations against specific political parties or individuals. if europe is to be secure, then europe's electoral system must also be secure. the inevitability of the consequences of the detection of certain irregularities is important. the reactivity of the european institutions, but also of the governmental institutions, to external interference in electoral processes is important. but it's also important to educate the voters themselves, to make them aware of all this.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commissioner is right. we talked about doing this program in an ambitious way, the best way possible, and fast. but why is that important? that speed. we want money, for example, for social innovation, for elderly care, telemedicine, etc., to flow as quickly as possible to our universities, our industry, our small and medium-sized enterprises. this framework programme introduced missions. it's a very new and good approach. i congratulate the commissioner. because it's going to help people understand what it means to be a zero-emission city, to fight cancer. all these ideas are understandable to people, and that's what we wanted. it is important that the european innovation council, which this programme is introducing, will be as successful as the european institute of innovation and technology in the future. because we don't forget the old ways, which we should continue. and finally, it's important that we extend this program wherever possible through special funding to countries that are not currently benefiting from this program as much, countries like poland. it is important to use the full potential of the european union. i therefore congratulate the commissioner, the romanian presidency and my colleagues in the european parliament. really great work, ladies and gentlemen.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on the agreement reached on the horizon programme. it is all the more commendable that the positions of parliament and the council were so far apart in the beginning. i do not deny, however, that i liked the text of parliament much better. the rapporteur, mr nica, was quite right to stress the importance of closing the research and innovation gap in europe. and i have the impression that the widening measures proposed, the extension of the forms of cooperation and the advancing europe package are not enough. i'm afraid that in reality, this will not translate directly into participation in collaborative projects, missions and partnerships, because there is no bridge between the widening and the horizontal activities. that's why it's necessary to think ahead. it's about the exit plan for the countries in this widening package. well, one such solution would be to enter a percentage of the policy objective in the budget of the horizon europe programmes for those countries which participate in this enlargement programme. this is the case for smes in many programmes. this would ensure that the european commission would have to activate the mechanisms to achieve this objective in the implementation of the programme.
mr. chairman, please! in these difficult times, it is science that must have a strong voice. it must build bridges across the divides, stand for a europe of solidarity, cohesion and wisdom. a europe that builds its strength on knowledge, not on stereotypes and populism. i believe that horizon europe gives us that strength. in the eu's scientific programmes so far, the rift on the map of europe has been very deep. the so-called old member states received 90% of the budget, the new eu-13 less than 5%. horizon europe offers a historic opportunity to close this gap. no, we don't have to be condemned to a europe of many innovative speeds. in the new programme, we are doubling the budget to promote scientific excellence in countries and regions where it is lacking. we're creating new tools that will allow us to support the most talented scientists, regardless of their country of origin. we offer fairer pay, but above all we send a political signal that european science is only strong if all of europe works together. this is a big step. when we were in the 7th framework programme, the idea of opening up to talent from central and eastern europe was new, incomprehensible. while the idea of 'spreading excellence' was developed in the work on 'horizon 2020', little was achieved with a budget of less than 1%. only horizon europe will give a real chance to the best scholars from central and eastern europe to stay in their own countries. we finally have the tools to stop this drainage. i thank the commissioner and the rapporteurs of both projects and the romanian presidency for this. but nothing happens by itself. i say to the politicians and representatives of the new eu 13: do not wait for reforms, modernise the universities, use these two years to prepare well to compete for european grants in a new perspective, do not let europe escape you! it needs you!
mr president, commissioner, the rapporteur and the members of the committee. congratulations on this program. with the scale of horizon europe, science can for the first time play a real role in building europe's competitive advantage. the programme's activities must be used to strengthen the union's scientific and technological base, to meet global challenges, to increase the modern strength of european industry, while ensuring a combination of union expenditure and private business resources. the inclusion of the less-performing member states in the programme should be a priority. it is not just cohesion policy that decides to avoid a two-speed europe. the convergence of knowledge is fundamental for equitable development. the key is to be more open. it is necessary to increase cross-sectoral, interdisciplinary, cross-border cooperation and to create new research and innovation networks. such conditions could increase the investment in scientific capacity of countries that are currently lagging behind europe's innovation leaders by a factor of six. there will be no innovative europe without a boost in research into health, environmental protection, safety, food quality, energy efficiency, support for the development of artificial intelligence for the benefit of man. all horizon europe actions should be in synergy with other funds, the european regional development fund, cohesion policy, the european social fund plus and in line with regional smart specialisation strategies. poland wants to do that. this multiplies the effect and horizon europe will then become a lever for growth on an unprecedented scale for all.
in writing. in congratulating the rapporteurs on reaching agreement on the framework programme horizon europe, i would like to point out that for me, as a representative of central and eastern europe and as a representative of academia, the parliament's text contained better solutions to the problem of closing the research and innovation gap in europe. we have widening activities and activities under the advancing europe package. but we need solutions that will get countries out of this widening package. we need a bridge to lead them towards greater participation in collaborative projects, missions and partnerships. otherwise, in 20 years we will be debating the same widening measures for the same countries! as a result of the negotiations, it was possible to introduce a provision in the programme referring to the criterion of 'geographical diversity' as a specific evaluation criterion. however, a direct provision on 'widening countries' rather than on general geographical diversity would be much more effective. this would ensure that the so-called eu-13 entities are really included in the closed cooperation clubs we have seen for years.
mr. chairman, please! reporting, new standards, regulations, red tape, more controls, new supervisory bodies, penalties, obstacles, complications, increased surveillance - all of this is contained in this new report on market surveillance and product harmonisation. i don't have the heart to explain to you again why this is a bad idea, why it won't work, so i thought i'd look for some positives. what good can be done with this report? and i made a pigeon, which i recommend to all of you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. the directive does indeed provide some good solutions for consumers, but it does not solve the basic problem of the different quality of products packaged in the same way. we have here an open list of justified exceptions, as the commissioner herself has said, so that this directive does not in fact prohibit unfair practices. i'd like some examples of almette cheese. this almette i bought at kehl's is made from curd and is 100% natural, and this almette from the store in krakow is made from curd and milk powder and contains e330 citric acid. i also bought some philadelphia cheese. the one you bought in krakow contains the e410 stabilizer, which the one you bought in kehl doesn't. another example: tea, which also looks the same: the one you buy in krakow has 0.1% peach juice, and the one you buy here in strasbourg has 50 times more. that is why over a hundred colleagues have signed an amendment which absolutely prohibits such unfair practices, and i ask you to support it, because in the european union we do not have better or worse consumers. the market is fair and it has to be fair to everyone equally.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i, of course, join in the thanks. this regulation is one of the few examples of how european law can also be friendly to polish entrepreneurs. in this term of office, similar proposals have rarely won a majority. fortunately, the situation was different with respect to supplementary protection certificates for medicinal products. we have managed to adopt and then negotiate with the council and the european commission a very good text which opens up new markets and broad prospects for european generic and biosimilar producers. the change in this regulation is also very good news for patients, it is faster access to modern and affordable medicines. i am sure that the polish pharmaceutical companies will take full advantage of the opportunities that this project opens up for them. this is a huge opportunity for new investment and jobs in a very innovative sector of the economy. of course, our group will support the project tomorrow.
in writing. europe is and should remain at the forefront of pharmaceutical research and development, and the spc also supports europe's pioneering role in pharmaceutical research and development. these rules foster creativity and allow the pharmaceutical industry to maintain its world-class innovation potential. i therefore fully support the proposed exception for the protection of spcs as a way to remove the unintended legal obstacle that has prevented eu-based generic and biosimilar manufacturers from competing in export markets where competition is known to be fierce and to restore a level playing field for eu and non-eu manufacturing. supplementary protection certificates (spcs) extend the patent protection of medicinal products which must undergo long-term tests and clinical trials before they can be marketed. the exemption will allow eu-based companies to produce a generic or biosimilar version of a protected medicinal product in the future during the period of validity of the protection certificate, if this is done solely for export to a market outside the eu where protection has expired or never existed.
in writing. the aim of the new rules is to level the playing field on the world market for small and medium-sized eu pharmaceutical manufacturers, while maintaining the protection of manufacturers of generic medicines. these are very important changes for polish pharmaceutical manufacturers. until now, spc protection has covered both the sale and manufacture of a generic medicine throughout the eu. however, pharmaceutical companies located outside the eu can manufacture and sell a medicine worldwide outside the eu after 20 years of patent protection, and can also enter the eu market with a generic once the five-year protection period has expired. this puts smaller eu companies at a disadvantage. the leveling of opportunities in third markets will allow eu small and medium-sized pharmaceutical companies to raise capital to not only produce in the generics and biosimilars sector but also to build their own r&d facilities for the production of new medicines. in addition, they will not be forced to move production outside the eu, which will of course create new jobs for highly qualified staff. the changes are also intended to ensure that patients have faster and wider access to safe generic medicines produced in the eu once the spc protection has ended.
mr. chairman, please! any situation where you take money from one to give to another, where you take money from those who work and give it to those who don't work, is immoral and stupid. and now those who do more of these stupid things demand solidarity in stupidity from those who do less of these stupid things. a glance at these detailed regulations reveals the bureaucracy involved. if a country needs a definition of business travel, it's a sick country. please don't take liberty of movement and freedom to the teeth when you simultaneously demand permission, control, reporting, limiting the time of delegations. and if you think that the right to benefits is preventing people from moving, then i have a simple idea: abolish benefits and we'll have peace. you say it's a way to cheat. who knew that could be a recipe for fraud? we'll take away the benefits. there'll be no cheating. to throw in controversial projects like this at the last minute by the declining left when you already know that the people are fed up with you and when it comes out in the polls, is a manifestation of hypocrisy, as is to invoke democracy at the same time because the people don't want your further socialist experiments. socialism is bankrupt, and we thank you.
madam president! as the new parliament will be in charge of the negotiations, i would like to appeal to the new members to exercise caution and prudence. first, we must guarantee equal treatment for migrant workers. persons who decide to move to another member state to take up employment there should be placed under the social security system of the host state as soon as possible. it is also important for migrant workers to extend the period during which they can export their acquired unemployment benefits from three to six months. specific arrangements for frontier workers are also needed. there can be no question of indexing family benefits. in the case of posted workers, we should avoid making any significant changes. companies providing services abroad are facing huge administrative burdens and new regulations resulting from the new posting of workers directive. provisions which would lead to the fragmentation of social security should be avoided. the employee must be sure where he pays his contributions and where he and his family are insured. it is therefore necessary to maintain a period of 24 months during which the contributions are paid in the country of dispatch. article 13 of regulation (ec) no 987/2009 should also be maintained in its current form, which concerns persons working in two or more member states, i.e. drivers. these persons should be insured in the country of their residence. the new european parliament faces a difficult task, but i trust that the new members will show good sense and discretion.
mr president, many of my colleagues have asked me why i distribute those yellow daffodils. tomorrow they will also be distributed in the corridors. many of you have got them already. please listen for a second. 19 april is the anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising. in warsaw we always commemorate this day with those daffodils. thousands of people in warsaw wear those daffodils or carry fresh ones. on the last day of this mandate, let us give a very clear signal that we remember together and that we are here in order not to allow such horrors to happen ever again. never again. (applause)
on behalf of more than 38 members. – mr president, unfortunately this directive does not solve the burning issue of the dual quality of products, and i come to it again. it contains an open list of exemptions, which allow to sell products of different quality in seemingly identical packaging, and it obliges the consumer to prove every time that he or she was treated unfairly. so in the name of over 100 members from 25 member states who signed the amendment which prohibits this unfair practice, i ask you all to vote on the submitted amendments individually. (applause)
mr president, horizon europe is a wonderful name, because it reflects the goals we have set ourselves: europe, a united europe, but a modern europe, a europe competitive on world markets, an innovative europe. that is why this programme deserves our support, and not only in terms of the amounts proposed by the european commission (more than eur 84 billion), but also in terms of the budget proposed by us, the european parliament, which is eur 120 billion. i would like to point out two advantages of this program, although there are many. first, a very strong emphasis on the role of smes, for example by allocating up to 70% of the european innovation council budget to smes. and second, to close the research gap. what's very hard to accept in the european union is that there are countries that have huge money for innovation and research and development, and there are countries that have a problem with that. now we can eliminate that gap.
mr president, i have finally supported this proposal after much hesitation, which unfortunately does not fully combat the dual quality of food. the amendment i co-signed, which unfortunately did not pass, clearly fought against dual quality of food and products and classified these practices as unfair commercial practices. unfortunately, this motion put forward by my colleagues has not been passed, i'm sorry. i therefore regard the written compromise as a kind of half-way step, a step towards having food of the same quality as in western europe under the same names in the czech republic and the new member states of the european union in the future, but i must say, in all fairness, that this compromise agreement is not, in my view, sufficient. i hope that in the future the new european parliament, the european commission, will deal with this issue and if my view that this compromise option is not sufficient is confirmed, then what we originally proposed here as members will be accepted in the future.
mr. chairman, please! the only reason to have a product safety certification is if the certification body is responsible for the certificates it issues, which is to say, if they are private institutions that can be sued if they do something wrong. nobody has ever heard of the european union authorities being sued by consumers for errors in risk assessment, and so that assessment is really worthless. it's just making chairs where people sit comfortably, doing some research that doesn't get much done, instructing others on what to eat and what not to eat. besides, this report, this directive is so general, in many places we only write that everything should be good, it should be correct, on time, adequate, correct and so on. this is completely meaningless, it is not a sensible regulation. that's why i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! i too have served my country in this house for five years, but i have also served the law and the cooperation of the peoples of europe. and it's symbolic to me that we're finally talking about borders, because borders are the essence of states. the borders can of course be open, and it is good if they are open, but the control of them, the right of residence, the exercise of sovereignty over national territory must always be decided by the states in the end. we've seen the role of states in working on this visa code. it was used to try to smuggle in the term "illegal immigration" to replace the categorical statement that something is legal or illegal. we can't talk about the rule of law if we call breaking the law "unregulated activity". europe will exist as long as it has its states, and only the states, by guarding the borders of the states, will guard the borders of europe.
mr. chairman, please! there are no zero-emission vehicles, so stop repeating that lie in your next paper. there is no such thing, and there certainly won't be for the foreseeable future. it's just a marketing ploy by electric car manufacturers. so-called zero-emission vehicles emit the most pollution, just not in the place where they're driving. they're emitting pollutants from the power plant, so stop lying to me. mrs. delli can shout all she wants. i can see she's told what she knows, shouted what she wanted, and walked out. that's the debate. she can shout all she wants that she wants to reduce, because we young people here want to, but if there is no technology that allows us to reduce such emissions, then it will just be hidden, it will be moved from one place to another with some technological tricks, and often it will cause global emissions to increase, so this report is simply irresponsible.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you said that we have done so much for the climate, so please tell me what we have done for the climate, because all i see are the printed sheets of paper that parliament is making out, and the climate is what it was. tell me, what have we done for the climate?
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this debate. i would like to start by answering a direct question that was raised by mr sośnierz. he raised a question about what this parliament has done for climate change. my answer is: quite a lot. what has the european union done for climate change? quite a lot. before 2020, we established ambitious targets and, in 2017, we reduced our emissions by more than 22%, compared with 1990, while gdp grew by 58%. we have reduced emissions, we have developed renewables and we have increased energy efficiency. but this parliament, in five years, has delivered a formidable legislative framework on energy and climate. i have been in politics for 38 years, and i have served in regional, national and european parliaments. in any period in my life, i don’t recall such intense legislative activity as we have seen in these years, and i have to thank the chairmen and chairwomen of the committees – jerzy buzek, adina vălean, giovanni la via – and all the rapporteurs, starting with my friend, bas eickhout, who did impressive work, not only here, but also making my life difficult in the renewables directive. it’s really true, because what have we done? we have established a substantial number of pieces of legislation, which will deliver a reduction of emissions in 2030 of 45% and, if they are unchanged (but they will be changed), in 2050 will deliver a 60% reduction of emissions. so we have a substantial package. one of the most important things is the average level of political support for these proposals. in the energy package, 80% of the votes in each package were in favour, and on climate, without taking account of tomorrow’s vote, 76%. there has been substantial political support for the legislation we have implemented for 2050, and in this house that is not so frequent. that means there has been dialogue and understanding. we have given up positions, we have negotiated and, for me, i can say it has been a formidable experience. i have participated in 71 trilogues and i have spent more than 350 hours of my life in difficult dialogues. it has been a formidable experience, and i want to thank all of you, because this has been a wonderful job that, without the involvement of the members of this parliament, would have been impossible, because the parliament has raised the level of ambition of the commission proposals. i am happy about that. this is the gain. this is the institutional way of going forward. i think that we have a cumbersome procedure, but it has the fundamental value that the legislation will be applied in the next ten years, and we will have review clauses to increase ambition over time. and the next parliament will have to take the responsibility and increase ambition. but this parliament has not finished its work. in the last opinion poll, published last wednesday, i saw that 77% of potential voters identified global warming as an important criterion when deciding who to vote for in the may european elections, and that’s a very important issue. i think when we have the european elections, climate change policy has been one of the main factors to be discussed within them. i encourage all of you to do two things. first, i want you to explain to the european people what we have done during these five years and also to say what you want to do in the next five years. i think that will bring more people to the polling stations and will give bigger support to the next parliament. we will have the position that, in the next five years, we will complete this package, we will make further progress and we will work together towards making the european union the first major economy to become climate neutral in 2050.
in writing. the regulation on co2 emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles is part of the european union's integrated approach to decarbonising the transport sector. these regulations will undoubtedly pose a problem for both vehicle manufacturers and fuel dealers in the long run. the calculation methodology shall assign the co2 emission value of the vehicle to the vehicle based on the measured amount of co2 emitted from the vehicle's exhaust pipe. however, this does not include the total co2 emissions including those from the previous energy-intensive processing of crude oil as a primary energy source or from the production of renewable fuels, including biogas. the issue of reducing emissions from the use of biofuels and alternative fuels should also be addressed. the energy efficiency of the propulsion units is an important issue, as an increase of one percent reduces co2 emissions by up to several percent. however, the increased efficiency of diesel engines may result in an increase in nox emissions. in view of all this, the european commission should develop a better methodology for an objective and comprehensive way of calculating co2 emissions and avoiding nox emissions. the new methodology for advanced and renewable fuels should allow for further, substantial co2 emissions reductions. it will also allow companies specialising in the manufacture of heavy-duty vehicles to make bold use of new, lighter-weight materials and promising and competitive design solutions.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. today we are summing up the extra-judicial work on the directive on the promotion of clean, low-emission vehicles. the question of why we need this directive is justified by the initiative of the european commission, because nearly 60% - some say as much as two thirds - of the emissions that cause smog come from road transport. and the public sector needs clean, energy-efficient buses, trucks, vans, but also specialized equipment that gives them a chance to deliver good public services. the european industry needs a long-term stimulus to introduce new public procurement regulations and respond to these challenges. we are adopting a set of ambitious targets today, and in the work we had to make sure that the height of these targets was achievable by future contractors, i.e. mainly local governments, and at the same time did not affect the limitation in terms of public communication. that is why it is so important that the directive be supported by the eu budget and the european financial institutions, especially for the purchase of this transport, which will meet the objectives of this directive. the targets in the directive are tailored to the economic capabilities of individual member states, although we hope that as clean technologies are introduced more widely, many member states will exceed these targets. however, they do not cover 100% of purchases, leaving room for other, more traditional technologies, e.g. hybrid vehicles, as only plug-in hybrids will meet the clean vehicle standard. local governments have told us that hybrid solutions are a good bridge from traditional to low and zero-emission solutions, which allows, among other things, to train staff, to acquire the necessary know-how for further changes, to build infrastructure. as part of these objectives, we have taken care to ensure as much flexibility as possible in the use of low-carbon technologies. linking the definition of 'clean vehicle' to the alternative fuels infrastructure directive, because that is the existing legislation. i thank the commissioner for her frankness in introducing this definition. the targets in the directive apply to both heavy and light vehicles. we are aware that the main effect of the directive will be on the bus market and its use in public transport. the vast majority of purchases are public tenders and will therefore be covered by the directive. and it is the buses that have the highest purchase targets imposed by the directive, but at the same time it is the bus manufacturers that have the most advanced low-emission technologies. and in the union too, we have champion manufacturers who have developed technologies and are successfully competing with their products on the european and world markets. for example, solaris, a company in the greater poland region where i come from, produces both zero-emission electric buses and hydrogen buses, which find buyers in europe and beyond. we hope that the use of low-emission technologies, including gas mobility, including natural gas, biomethane and liquefied gas, will allow for a rapid reduction in emissions from public transport through the emission of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides. it will also make better use of, for example, biogas, which we will be able to obtain in large quantities from organic waste in the future, as we have written among others after my proposal in the european circular economy. we know that the future of transportation is zero-emission, battery-powered, hydrogen-powered, we know that these technologies will be perfected. but new technologies also pose not only technical challenges, but also social and environmental ones. we must remember that battery production also has an environmental impact and leads to negative impacts also where we obtain minerals for their production. so we need to accelerate the development of sustainable battery production and batteries that can be used more widely, reused first by extending their life, and then recycled. batteries that use fewer critical raw materials, including rare earth elements the directive is intended to provide a long-term impetus for the development of the european industry, particularly in the field of battery technologies, including clean batteries. the union must develop technologies so that our industry can offer vehicles that are competitive in price and technology in the world, so that jobs, research and technology remain in europe, and so that public money is spent to support the development of european industry. i thank all my colleagues and counter-rapporteurs, with whom we have often had differences in the course of our work, but we seem to have managed to reach a good agreement. i would like to thank the european commission, which helped to reach a good compromise at crucial moments, and also the romanian presidency, whose decision has made it possible to bring this regulation to an end during the current term of office.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate and i’m really happy to note continued, strong support in the european parliament for this proposal. i would like to once again thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for what has been a very constructive negotiation. this has allowed us to complete the process in time for this parliament to adopt the text before the recess. together with other elements of the mobility package 1, 2 and 3, the revised directive will play an important role in helping us achieve the substantive emission reductions in the transport sector that are required in order to comply with our obligations under the paris cop 21 agreement and beyond. adopting it under this parliament will ensure a timely contribution to these objectives by as early as 2025. but before i conclude, allow me a couple of comments based on your comments. first regarding the level of ambitions. yes, this package, this proposal is an ambitious one. that’s exactly what we need. at the same time it is a very realistic one and it is in line with the market forecasts. i think it is important to recall that major city networks, police, eurocity, then local governments for sustainability, the council of european municipalities and regions, have recently written to the european parliament and to the romanian presidency expressing full support for the commission’s proposal. so yes, local levels are ready to engage. the purchase cost of zero-emission electric vehicles, whether with batteries or fuel cells, is currently high, that is true as well. but total lifecycle costs are already close to those of conventional vehicles and are expected to become even lower within the time frame of the proposal’s targets and with the growing demand. economies of volumes and scale will bring the costs down. where financial support is needed we are ready to use existing instruments such as efsi, esif, cef, as well as similar future instruments to help facilitate the transition to low- and zero-emission mobility. let me just recall the instrument for electrical buses that is being used by many of the european cities already. so having clear targets on public procurement in clean vehicles will really facilitate this. just a quick note also on some additional information regarding the industry. last june, in 2018, a group of leading industry representatives, abb, alstom, edf, skoda, solaris, ursus and others, sent an open letter to the council asking for higher ambition than that proposed by the commission, and confirming that they are ready to deliver. so we have encouragement on both sides: on the demand and on the supply side. last but not least, let me just confirm what was also mentioned by you. many leading cities are indeed already going beyond the requirements and many have committed to using only zero-emission buses already in the next five to ten years. the aim of the directive is to encourage other cities to follow this example, while recognising that many small and medium-sized cities might not yet have the resources and expertise of amsterdam or paris. but we are ready to engage and pool orders, and they can then together negotiate a better price with the industry. therefore i am very much looking forward to the adoption of mr grzyb’s report in plenary tomorrow. i think that this file again proves that if we recognise a clear need and join our forces, we can deliver very concrete benefits for european citizens.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. we all know that electric propulsion is one of the most efficient propulsion systems when it comes to vehicles. primary energy use is much higher here. secondly, we also know very well that supporting the development of this sector, as we say, of clean, low-emission vehicles, is also creating a certain movement in the manufacturing sector itself, and on the other hand it is helping these cities, and we have many of them in europe, who are struggling with clean air, with air quality, with reducing emissions. this transport can help them to get better results in this area, and this is what the citizens, the residents, are demanding. i have an example, just one, that one of the professors who likes to run in one of the polish cities, after several years of running in the green areas of this city, said, "now i know that i did wrong, because i got a lung disease. i think that the figures which tell us how many citizens of our member states suffer from respiratory diseases, how many also die prematurely, should also make us think about what we should do about this. there are more and more cities where the decision of the city councils, presidents, mayors, to restrict the entry of combustion vehicles into their centers, allowing only vehicles that are powered by electricity to enter. of course, i am aware of what mr pieper said, that this is the imposition of obligations by the member state implementing the directive mainly on local governments, but it seems to me that after numerous contacts and discussions with these local governments, both with cities, counties and regions, during the consultation preceding our final work, i noticed that they are able to accept the fact that we have expanded the definition of zero and low-emission vehicles, namely hydrogen, gaseous fuels, biomethane, as well as the possibility of retrofitting or converting currently functioning vehicles. i think these are very important elements that we have obtained during the public consultation with both the manufacturers of these vehicles and the stakeholders, mainly local governments, who have told us what they would expect for this regulation to be acceptable. we are aware that this is only the result of a compromise between the three institutions, the parliament, the council, which has expressed its opinion (general approach), and the european commission. i'd like to thank you again very much. i think the important message is that the european funds after 2020 are to support the objectives of this directive, and this is also a form of incentive for those stakeholders who want to join in the implementation of this directive. i would like to thank you very much for the work you have done together during this term, not only on this directive but also on everything, madam president, that we have been able to experience together in this chamber, sometimes arguing, but also, i think, with the conviction that we are doing this for a good cause, we are doing this for the citizens of europe.
in writing. transport today accounts for almost a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions and is the main cause of air pollution in cities. the aim of low-carbon mobility is therefore justified, as it is a prerequisite for the transition to a low-carbon economy that promotes environmental improvements. the transport system needs to be optimised and made more efficient, including through the promotion of multimodal transport and advanced biofuels. however, it is important to remember that the quality of infrastructure and the development of transport systems such as public transport, rail and inland transport are important. the commission is also proposing a new definition of clean vehicles and a transition period until 2025, after which much stricter requirements will be enforced on vehicles in the european union. the lack of financial support is a barrier to transport modernisation. it seems that the european commission should provide much more financial support for clean vehicles under the structural funds and the ce programme. it is the only way to improve the state of the environment in europe.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you so much for giving me a voice. i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are already feeling the end of the mandate and we are still to adopt extremely important documents, documents that the european market and european businesses are really looking forward to. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner jourová very warmly and, on her behalf, thanking the whole team who have drawn up an excellent draft directive, which has considerably reduced working time in both parliament and the council and has enabled the negotiations to proceed in a truly calm manner during the trialogue. i also wish to thank all my shadow rapporteurs and colleagues who have been actively involved in the project. what's it about? we're talking about company law, which is almost insanely important if we're talking about the functioning of the european single market and something that is the essence of modernity, which is digitization. in fact, this directive opens up new possibilities for the registration of companies by using digital technology and the internet. it is astonishing that it is only at the end of this term, a term that is really marked by digitalisation, its various aspects and the information society, that we arrive at the regulation that entrepreneurs and european companies are waiting for. ladies and gentlemen! i want to make it very clear that the aim we set ourselves was to improve and facilitate the functioning of entrepreneurs and companies in the modest context of company registration. the lack of such rules on registration, publication of documents or the lack of coordination between the different systems in some member states where this possibility already existed has led to increased costs, increased time for these procedures, and also a certain legal uncertainty when it comes to registration in another member state, which has sometimes led to a loss of market opportunities. at that time, such a company may not have been established or may have had to abandon various types of contracts because of the length of time required to register. the document before us will shorten that time considerably. this means that it will be possible to make such a digital registration within five to a maximum of ten working days. of course, this is subject to the requirements of the country of registration: all the required documents must be submitted and the conditions laid down in the directive must be met, which are intended to combat or even prevent possible fraud. this is a very important issue. ladies and gentlemen! how many companies could this be? well, according to the data i have, there are about 24 million companies in the european union, of which about 80% are limited companies, and almost all of them are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the companies that generate the most jobs. so it's our job to make it easier for these companies to operate by saving time, money, and personnel costs. we are doing that by submitting this report. as i said, for the time being the rules will apply to companies with share capital, but i hope - and here i am addressing commissioner jourová - that when the review which we have started in about six years is completed, once it has been completed, the rules will be extended to all types of companies. ladies and gentlemen! i would also like to emphasise one more element, namely the need for cooperation between member states in implementing certain aspects of the directive, for example, concerning the holding of management positions or the determination that a person can hold a management position in a company. because it's a very complicated issue, we've even extended the implementation time of this directive a little bit. it is true that it brings some complications, but in the end it can only bring benefits, and any member state that implements the rules in the way we expect will soon be able to see this, and our european businessmen will certainly see it. i therefore urge that we vote to close the first reading tomorrow.
member of the commission. – madam president, tomorrow we will move one step closer to bringing the digital single market to companies, and, indeed, as mr zwiefka has just said, it is the last moment for us to do that. the new rules will help entrepreneurs create and run companies more easily and cheaply. online procedures will now be available in all eu member states. companies will be able to fully use digital tools and processes not only at national level, but also cross-border. companies will save time and money when they launch a new business or branch and update information available on business registers. and all this with strong security standards. i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, and the council presidencies for the fast work on the proposal and for the excellent cooperation. the commission is pleased with the result. in particular, the political agreement on the directive on digital tools and processes further clarifies that member states can maintain their existing national systems, procedures and requirements, while making possible online procedures for formation of companies, registration of branches and filing of documents. as an important safeguard against fraud, the directive will specify in which exceptional cases member states can require physical presence in the procedures. i am also delighted that the co-legislators have agreed on the rules concerning the exchange of information about disqualified directors. it is a very important step towards a more transparent business environment and the prevention of fraud. finally, more information from business registers will be available for free to stakeholders, especially on who can legally represent a company. this will help to bring more trust to business transactions. the commission therefore fully supports the compromise reached by the co—legislators and is looking forward to tomorrow’s vote.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their speeches and, of course, at the same time, i’d like to encourage you all to vote in favour of the compromise text of the proposal. with this piece of legislation we are truly inviting european companies to the 21st century. this, i think, is a step in the right direction and we are doing something very useful. now we can also start concentrating our efforts on ensuring that the implementation will make online procedures available in practice as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. thank you, madam president! i thank the commissioner and my colleagues for these words summarising our cooperation and this legislative process. i would just like to say that it is obvious to the legislator, to us, to the european parliament, that the vast majority of european entrepreneurs are extremely honest people and we trust them, which is why we propose solutions that make it easier for them to live and function in our normal reality, and this reality is already a digital reality today. fraud also occurred in the traditional form of company registration, so it is difficult to assume that there will be much more, or even more, in the form of registration using the internet. i would like to thank once again all those who have worked so hard to produce this document. i call on the council to implement this directive without delay. european businesses are indeed looking forward to such modern regulations. i have every confidence that they will receive it as soon as possible.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament for 15 years, i have had the satisfaction of seeing our work on harmonising the different national laws translate into tangible economic effects and the integration of the eu market, and more recently the digital market. the rules adopted today will simplify procedures for setting up companies abroad, i.e. in other eu countries, and will significantly reduce the time it takes to register them, without requiring a personal visit to the offices. the internet registration and the possibility to submit the necessary documents electronically is now a necessity and guarantees a modern and transparent space for the development of eu companies. the proposed rules do not alter the conditions for registration in the member states, i.e. they will not have a negative impact on the prevention of financial fraud or the participation of notaries in the registration process. once all the necessary documents have been submitted, the whole procedure should take no more than 510 days, depending on the type of company and whether the applicant is a natural or legal person. the draft directive also provides for the application of the 'once-only' principle, which means that documents and information will be submitted by the trader only once. this is the last plenary session of the eighth term of the european parliament. i have attended all the plenary sessions over the past three terms and now, as i leave the european parliament, i am pleased to have been involved in many innovative solutions to make life easier for citizens and businesses in our community. thank you for working with me.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’d like to thank you for your speeches, for your positive comments, and for emphasising the rules needed for better mobility of companies within the eu and for better and stronger legal certainty for companies. indeed, this is what we wanted. we wanted to come up with enabling legislation combining safeguards against abuse with safeguards to guarantee the rights of employees and shareholders, and guaranteeing that no letter-box companies and no tax avoidance or tax evasion will be allowed by means of this legislation. this was complex work. it required a lot of our expertise and a lot of our, as i said at the beginning, political will. i also appreciate the fact that we not only worked together in a spirit of good compromise, but also worked under – let’s say – time pressure at the end of our terms and we managed. so thank you very much for the cooperation. i think that we are together presenting a very good and balanced proposal and i do hope that tomorrow it will be rubber-stamped by a positive vote in this house.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that we have reached a partial agreement together, after many hours of negotiations and three trilateral talks, which will be voted on tomorrow. it wasn't easy, there were a lot of concerns about this fund, concerns that seemed to me to be completely unfounded. these concerns and controversies are still being raised, which is a little surprising to me, because it is precisely the groups of colleagues whose demands i tried very diligently to take into account during the tripartite negotiations (the green party counter-rapporteurs, mr bütikofer, mr martin) and who seemed to me to be quite satisfied with the compromise reached and that we had achieved a great deal, who are today questioning it. there are two problems: firstly, the ethical issues and secondly, the delegated act issue, which i will talk about in a moment. on the other hand, there were and are concerns that the european defence fund would undermine our commitments and our transatlantic relations, our relations with nato, which is the fundamental defence alliance that guarantees our security. i think that the fears raised by the left, the centre and the right are unfounded, and i believe that the partial agreement reached, which has also been confirmed in writing by the council (the council feels obliged to what we have negotiated, which was also the demand of the socialists and the greens), confirms that both sides, and i hope the commission and the commissioner, are satisfied with the agreement reached. i can only summarise all the things we have achieved that were important to parliament: direct management of the fund by the european commission, then the inclusion of a separate budget for breakthrough technologies, no cap on indirect costing, preferential participation in the fund for smes and mid-caps. we have devoted a great deal of attention and time in the negotiations to the question of ethical control in project financing, and here the council has made far-reaching concessions, taking into account many of the demands of parliament, which can be compared with edidp. it is also important to me that a provision has appeared in the recitals excluding the participation of entities controlled by third countries subject to eu sanctions. this is extremely important in the situation we're in. it was also important that we had allayed the concerns of some colleagues about the promotion of trade in european defence products. many of the terms that might have led to such misconceptions were eliminated. the purpose of the fund is not to militarize the union or any other purpose, but to support joint european projects in the research and development phase. and the goal is not to produce weapons, but to do research and development. i think it'll avoid unnecessary duplication and the fund will work towards designing the highest quality defense technology and products. i think this is extremely important, and we have not been able - and i understand that this is controversial, of course, but it follows from the nature of this fund - to waive the delegated act, but there are also precedents: we have agreed to it because of the nature of the fund and the operational assumptions. a few things remain open, but - i'll finish, madam president - i think we have retained all those elements that were important to critics on both the left and the right of this fund.
madam president! we are committed to strengthening the defence pillar of the european union within the north atlantic alliance system, which is worth emphasising. and the defence industry is not only the key to security, but also to the development of industry throughout the european union. as chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am very pleased that we are developing defence capabilities, but above all our own strong and competitive industry. what's this fund about? three things, in my view: the widest possible participation of all european companies, large funds for defence research and an incentive for member states to develop jointly procurement, technological innovation, industry. these were among the conclusions of the conference on the future of the arms industry in siemianowice, silesia, in my region, and this was achieved today, thanks to the decision on the european defence fund. europe will soon benefit from the most advanced solutions designed and developed by our large, medium and small businesses. i wanted to congratulate commissioner bieńkowska on the proposal for a european defence fund. i would like to congratulate mr krasnodębski, our rapporteur, on the very good conduct of the negotiations, because they were very difficult negotiations. i congratulate all my colleagues and fellow shadow rapporteurs, as well as ms françoise grossetête, who was the rapporteur for the previous programme on a similar subject. thank you! it's a good step in the right direction.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are discussing a matter of vital importance to the security of europe. the market for public procurement for the development and purchase of new types of armaments is segmented across national borders in europe. only 16% of procurement and 7% of research and development expenditure go to projects carried out jointly by two or more member states. as a result, although the total defence expenditure of the european union is more than twice as high as that of the russian federation, for example, cooperation between the member states of the european union, particularly in the area of interoperability of our armies, leaves much to be desired. security is our priority and in the face of new challenges such as the aggressive policy of the russian federation or radical muslim fundamentalism, it requires us to strengthen europe's defence capabilities, and the european defence fund is the instrument to help us achieve this. cooperation between defence industries and research and development centres in the member states is crucial in this context. the european commission has proposed that the fund should have 13 billion euros at its disposal, and this is certainly an amount that will strengthen the development and research potential of our industry. however, i would like to stress that we should maintain a balance in the allocation of these funds so as to exploit the potential of all countries, including, for example, the large defence potential of the arms industry in poland, including the potential of the arms factories in radom and pionka.
mr. chairman, please! contrary to what professor krasnodębski says, this is another step towards building a european army and mr tarrand rightly said here, listen to what the members of the grossetête and riquet groups said, this is a step towards deeper integration. i understand what the germans are trying to achieve. germany, after losing the war, has fallen under american control and is trying to use the creation of a european army to escape that control and regain freedom of movement in europe. but i don't understand what poland's gain is. it's giving up sovereignty over our army, losing full control over our army. coordinating procurement, joint procurement, joint research means losing the ability to operate independently. this is a mortal threat to us. after all, last year the european commission explained to your government that we are no longer an independent country without a single soldier. what can they do if they have an army? you're just selling our independence and helping to build the fourth reich.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the members for all your comments and all of your observations. what i want to say is that by no means was this an easy file to be agreed upon by all of us, by all three european institutions, and again, i would like to thank all of you who really, with great devotion, tried to find a good solution to different, difficult aspects of this file. let me refer only to two of them. first, on cooperation, because many of you referred to the amount of money. let me say it again: the lack of cooperation in the defence industry sector has its cost, and this is something between eur 25 billion and 100 billion annually. this is the cost of no cooperation in the defence industrial sector. the second point concerns the export of weapons, because it was raised by some of you. the treaty here is very clear: we discussed it a lot. it is a very unique competence of the member states, and we will not change it in any way through this regulation. we are not increasing weapons exports; what we want and what our intention is, is to decrease our technological dependence on third countries, and the cooperation and this decreasing technological dependence are some of the most important features of the fund. i’m very sure that defence will become one of the engines of european integration. we are still talking about defence industrial cooperation – nothing more, nothing less than this – and again, i would like to stress that the commission very much welcomes the agreement reached during the trilogues. i hope for a positive vote tomorrow, and again, let me thank all of you – the rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs and the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), mr buzek (because i have not mentioned him before) – thank you very much for all your hard work on this file. again, i know it was not easy, but the agreement is, i think, satisfactory. (applause)
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you, fellas, for a very interesting discussion. it also showed that we are not in agreement even within the political groups, because clearly the two voices in the socialist group differed from each other, as did the green group. i think that this division of opinion reveals the difference between countries that have long since experienced no invasion, oppression or enslavement, and those that today, like the baltic countries or some countries in central and eastern europe, still feel threatened and know that all social programs are important, but if we do not defend our freedom, our well-being is also very much at risk. i would also like to thank the austrian presidency and especially the romanian presidency, which have shown great work and negotiating skills. i want to reassure all those who have expressed concern here about our relationship with nato. i think that all those who support this fund, especially from my region, are aware of what you have emphasized: nato is the guarantor of our security, nothing will change here. but we would like other countries, including france, to be even more involved in defending the eastern flank of nato, for example. i would like to say one more thing, namely the question was: what will poland (and i understand other countries in our region) get out of this? well, i think this is an opportunity to modernize our defense industry in cooperation with the leading companies in this field in europe and to develop research. i hope that this fund will also serve this purpose, i.e. the real exploitation of the potential of the whole of europe, not just parts of it. i ask you to vote for the text we have negotiated, i.e. to reject all the amendments in plenary. we must vote for paragraph 31 of the cp, reject paragraph 1 of the cp and all the amendments in the plenary, otherwise our agreement will fall apart. i'm asking for that kind of a position from all of us who care about this case. as i say, it is an opportunity for industry, for the whole of the union, to strengthen nato and our defence capabilities, which are important to protect our way of life or our civilization.
member of the commission. – madam president, (inaudible) covered bonds are a stable and cost effective source of financing. they fared well during the crisis, while other sources of funding dried up. they are very popular in some member states and in others they are barely news. so the commission proposal seeks to develop this market further by drawing on the high standards and good practices of national systems. it is a key building block of the capital markets union to encourage investment and lending in the eu. the new rules will establish a pan-european covered bond market that supports lending to the real economy without disturbing already established and well-functioning national markets. they will boost the issuance of covered bonds also in member states where markets are less developed. these rules will help banks access a broad range of safe and efficient funding tools which in turn will allow them to finance companies and households. we estimate that the potential saving for borrowers will be around eur 1.5 billion a year. the new rules also set out to harmonise prudential rules for these instruments in order to contribute to financial stability. the new framework is based on two pillars. so, first the directive provides a common definition of covered bonds. it outlines the features of the instruments and it identifies the high-quality assets that can be eligible to back a covered bond. the directive establishes sound supervision for covered bonds as well, and sets out the rules allowing the use of the ‘european covered bonds’ labels. and the second, a regulation, strengthens the conditions for granting preferential capital treatment to covered bonds purchased by banks. as promised during the trilogues and set out in the commission’s statement accompanying today’s acts, the commission is willing to amend the liquidity coverage ratio, delegated act, in order to cater for the specific situation of covered bonds. this amendment will address the overlap between the cover pool liquidity buffer set out in the directive and the liquidity buffer foreseen in a liquidity coverage ratio. for this purpose, a declaration from the commission will be transmitted to the parliament before voting tomorrow. i wish here to thank the parliament for this successful outcome, in particular the rapporteur, mr lucke, and all shadow rapporteurs. the objectives of the commission proposals are largely maintained thanks to the effective approach of the parliament negotiating team and the good cooperation with the council. the transposition and implementation of the new rules on covered bonds should now proceed rapidly. this will ensure that this important source of funding can be used in all member states, thereby promoting jobs and growth throughout the eu.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. we are debating two pieces of legislation today that establish the legal framework for the asset-backed securities market. for the sake of translation, i want to say that in polish terminology, these securities are called bank pledge notes. the market for bank-backed securities is an important element of the capital union we are building. i am glad that the negotiations between parliament and the council have resulted in a good compromise. the directive introduces a uniform definition of european asset-backed bonds, specifies the types of assets that can be used as collateral, lays down banking supervision obligations and the method for calculating the current value of assets. the directive also introduces two categories of bonds: european bonds, which meet the requirements of the directive, and european premium bonds, which additionally meet the requirements of the crr. the directive allows member states to determine the structure of the asset pool, including the size of the liquid assets holdings. in addition, in the regulation this was a very contentious point we reached a compromise of eight percent of the limit for collaterals in the form of third-tier credit quality assets. this framework harmonisation makes bank bonds a very safe, very high quality security, very attractive to potential investors. they are also a very convenient source of funding for banks. i congratulate mr bernd lucken on his excellent report and thank him for the cooperation we have had with him on this report. i thank the european commission and i thank the commissioner for her constructive contribution to the report and i appeal to all my colleagues to accept the report without amendments.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, thank you very much for all comments and interventions, which show that there is broad agreement about the new rules. investors both within and outside the eu will know that those financial instruments, which are labelled eu covered bonds or premium covered bonds, are subject to robust standards set out in eu law and to specific supervision. the new rules are based on a prudentially sound and balanced approach, with the possibility to review key provisions in the coming years. i count on the continued support of the parliament to ensure that covered bonds become an even more important source of funding for the european economy in the future. thank you very much to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2019.
the next item is the debate on: question for oral answer to the council by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the negotiations with the council and the commission on a legislative proposal concerning the european parliament's investigatory powers (o-000003/2019 - b8-0019/2019) (2019/2536(rsp)) and question for oral answer to the commission by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the negotiations with the council and the commission on a legislative proposal concerning the european parliament's investigatory powers (o-000004/2019 - b8-0020/2019) (2019/2536(rsp)).
author. – mr president, the right of inquiry is a fundamental weapon for any modern parliament to make the executive accountable for their actions. if we think about mad cow disease, tax fraud on cigarettes, dieselgate or the panama papers, we understand that it is fundamental that parliament has a solid and sharp power of inquiry. ramón jáuregui said that the council and the member states systematically refused to sit at the table and have a real discussion on the content of the european parliament’s proposal. their argument was that the proposal of the parliament did not take into consideration their fundamental concerns. but this actually means ignoring the nature of the special legislative procedure established by article 226 tfeu. this procedure implies that the institutions exchange views and search for a compromise acceptable for all of them. the council demanded that the initial proposal of the european parliament should already contain the text acceptable for the council. this is not the way the consent procedure functions. how would the council or the commission react if the european parliament refused even to discuss possible ways to reach an agreement on, let’s say, the mff, using the pretext that it does not like the proposal of the commission? moreover, this attitude is not compatible with the principle of sincere cooperation between the institutions that we all should respect and cherish. at stake here is a fundamental question of respect for the prerogatives of the parliament and for the institutional balance. it is fundamental that the council and the commission understand it. at the end of the day, we do not have an obligation to agree with each other, but we have the duty to try. sadly, member states have not lived up to their duty.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for all their comments and remarks. let me reiterate again that the commission attaches great importance to parliament’s role of scrutiny and political control, of which the ultimate aim is to guarantee that citizens’ concerns regarding the implementation of union law are properly addressed. the commission again recognises the work done by the institutions so far and acknowledges that the non-paper represents certain progress compared to the earlier proposals. at the same time, as i mentioned earlier, the commission still finds that the latest informal proposal contains a number of legal and institutional concerns, such as sanctions, investigative means and legal remedies. the commission acknowledges the need to have an adequate instrument which fully respects institutional prerogatives and the relevant legal frameworks of the member states. the commission is willing to engage in a constructive trilateral discussion with a view to finding appropriate solutions to the concerns that still exist. we hope that progress can be made on this politically sensitive, but very important, file.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude i would like to thank you all for this open and frank exchange of views. it has allowed us to clarify further our respective positions. let me assure you that both the austrian and the romanian presidencies and the preceding ones have been equally willing to engage in an open and constructive exchange of views with a view to sounding out whether an agreement can be reached between our institutions on this file. the file has been discussed in depth in so many meetings of the working party on general affairs. unfortunately, under the given circumstances it is clear that it is not possible anymore to conclude the file under this parliament legislator. but let me once again reaffirm the council’s willingness and commitment to engaging with the european parliament, be it in another setting, after the may elections. after all, it is in our common interest to have clear and up—to—date rules governing the exercise of the european parliament’s right of inquiry so that all actors know precisely what are their rights and obligations. let me also thank mr jáuregui atondo for the great work he has done as the rapporteur on the file and in trying to do his best in order to improve on what was the previous report on this so important file. thank you all so much once again for your attention. this is the last time the romanian presidency is going to intervene in the plenary and thank you all for all the good spirit of cooperation we had in these three months that we’ve been here and trying to ensure sincere cooperation between the institutions of europe.
it was a pleasure to work together with the romanian presidency.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, and roberto gualtierri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the investeu programme (com ((2018) 0439 - c8-0257/2018 - 2018/0229 ((cod)) (a8-0482/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this discussion. thank you very much for your positive comments on the programme. the main conclusion i’m drawing from this debate is the really overwhelming support expressed for the investeu programme, but i have also heard and taken good note of the very high expectations and the vigilant recommendations to the programme. i want to tell you that i will bring them back and ensure that they will fit into the programme’s preparation in the commission. thank you very much for your attention again. thank you very much to the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, and all of you, for your support.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
thank you very much. i hope that we will meet again under different circumstances, even if we have a different discussion in private, perhaps in another country.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i was asked in szczecin and świnoujście by shipowners and port representatives alike: what new things are you going to fund for us? i think we can say that we have proposed to you, dear porters, seafarers and fishermen, the following: a unified environmental monitoring system in both the port and maritime dimensions. secondly, we propose to integrate this across the european union. i would like to believe that we are saying that we can achieve a greater degree of cleanliness by filling in less paperwork and that in this way we can achieve a level that everyone will accept. yes, we want to protect, but it's going to be a little less bureaucratic. in order to be in the same vein as my colleagues, i would like to thank both wim van de campo, who is not here at the moment, gesine meissner and knut fleckenstein, and you, pavel, for our cooperation in the committee on transport and tourism. commissioner, thank you for five years together! i'll give you my regards.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not saying goodbye, i'm running for the european parliament from my country's capital, warsaw, and i'm optimistic, but today it's about more important things than my participation in the election. it's about the rights of christians and other religious minorities in the people's republic of china. this is a very important issue, and i'm glad that this is being raised. i am in favour of developing relations between the european union and china, of developing economic relations, and this should pay off, it does. but it can't be that the rights of the people of faith are being traded for the right to do business with beijing. i would like to make it very clear that europe's silence on this issue cannot be bought. i'll end with a reminder of the debate on the uighurs a few years ago, when the christian amendment was rejected. fortunately, that won't be the case today.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of christians in china is still dramatic, with the authorities using such drastic methods of persecution as hindering the religious education of children, which is a fundamental violation of family rights. churches are demolished, or, as in hebei province, bishops and priests are imprisoned. cardinal zen warned of this many months ago. what can we do about it? first of all, we can show that these are matters of fundamental importance to us. i know the role gestures play in diplomacy. and we should expect from the diplomats representing the european union signs of love, respect, attachment to christianity, contact with christian communities, and not approve of heartless neutrality or indifference. as for human rights policy and politics in general, china needs to know that its attitude towards christians will have repercussions on our bilateral relations.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of ethnic minorities in china, especially christians, uyghurs and kazakhs, is very worrying and is sometimes referred to by researchers as cultural genocide. in order to destroy the national identity of ethnic minorities, their constitutional rights to cultivate their traditions and beliefs, as well as freedom of speech and assembly, are violated. the situation of uighurs, who are placed in re-education camps and whose children are separated from their families and placed in orphanages, is particularly worrying. i have already mentioned this in this room six months ago, and unfortunately the situation in china has not changed in any way. i would therefore like to stress once again that the european union cannot accept these practices and must demand that the chinese government immediately close the camps, release those unjustly detained and stop violating the rights of ethnic minorities.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as some of you have mentioned, we have today, compared to five years ago, a new strategy with china, but most importantly, we have a new kind of relationship with china. i would say a more intense one, but also a more frank and open one, based on clear words, clear principles and also clear interests that we are not shying away from affirming in the clearest possible manner – trying to build some consistency in the approach the european union and all its institutions are taking towards china. let me here make an appeal to each of you. you are representing here european citizens, but you’re also representing political groups and national parties in political groups. many of you that have taken the floor today, saying very reasonable and very important words – most, probably, of you also belong to parties that have government responsibilities in your own member states. so i would like to hear those voices, those clear words also, in your addresses to your own governments whenever they meet their chinese counterparts, to be straightforward as the european institutions are – as, i have to say, during the last summit last week in brussels, we have been, both the commission, the council, myself – to the top leaders of the chinese authorities on human rights and passing the clear message that to europeans, human rights are not less important than economic interests. on the contrary, they are as important, if not more important, than our economic interests. i think this is a message that we have to, consistently and in a coherent manner as europeans, pass at all levels. the parliament (and i thank you for that), the commission, the council and single member states individually taken in their relations bilaterally with china. china has made some progress in the field of economic and social rights, but the general human rights situation, as you have mentioned, continues to deteriorate, particularly on civilian and political rights. human rights defenders and lawyers continue to be arrested and detained; fundamental freedoms continue to be violated. we’ve all seen the reports on the situation in xinjiang, with political re-education camps targeting uyghurs and other minorities; mass surveillance; restrictions on travel. and, as i said, we raise these issues, including some individual cases, with the chinese authorities, both in our bilateral contacts and in our human rights dialogues. we also (here i should move to the other side of the hemicycle – you will forgive me if i stay at this place), for the first time ever, invited to the foreign affairs council the foreign minister, state counsellor of china, mr yang jiechi, and i was proud to see that, united, the member states passed messages consistently at the level of foreign ministers on issues of relevance to our human rights dialogue. but we also raise these issues in the context, in the framework of our counter-terrorism policies, and i stress how important it is for us to be consistent and coherent across the institutions of the european union on these messages, because there might be the tendency in our interlocutors – not only when it comes to china, but also with others, when we talk about human rights – of thinking that it’s the european union institutions that raise human rights issues, and then member states or individual members of parliament do business. i think it is very important that we are consistent in the messages we pass, and i think that we are making, possibly, some progress in this consistency and this unity, so that our chinese interlocutors see that this is important for every single european, every single european member state, every single political family of this hemicycle. i’m taking here the opportunity again, publicly, to urge china to allow meaningful access to xinjiang for independent observers. some of you have mentioned that. let me add my voice once again on the call for independent observers, including for the un and the un high commissioner for human rights. likewise, freedom of religion, of belief, is often violated in tibet, and restrictions to access to the region are also in place. we have called on the chinese authorities to allow reciprocal access to tibet for european journalists, diplomats and families. we raise all these concerns at every occasion, as i said, at the highest level, including at our summit last week. publicly and privately, this was clearly underlined. we discussed the situation in xinjiang, in tibet, freedom of religion or belief and the rights of persons belonging to minorities. also, during our latest human rights dialogue, just a few weeks ago, we raised the issue of the shrinking space for civil society also in the framework of the legal reform, and we addressed the autonomy of hong kong. this exercise is often not an easy one – it is sometimes frustrating, and yet i believe this is the best tool we have to engage with our chinese partners, to be clear, to be united in the messages we pass, and to promote a change of course on human rights. our best tool is to keep engaging with china human rights in a respectful but extremely clear manner. no other global power is doing this in the world today. the global trend on human rights is not encouraging at all. we’ve discussed this in this hemicycle, many times. i believe this is exactly one more reason for us not to give up. we cannot afford, as europeans, i think, to stop engaging. we will continue to advocate for the respect of human rights, be it in china, in a very clear manner, but also all around the word. i’m looking forward to the next discussions on these issues. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on cameroon (2019/2691 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the question is: why are we concerned about cameroon, a country so far from europe? and that makes sense because first of all, it's a country that was once a colony of one of the european states, and so a certain state has been profiting from that for centuries, and so there's a moral obligation here. secondly, because we also send some humanitarian aid to that country, so we have a right to expect that we will have the comfort of sending that aid to a country that respects certain standards, human rights. i think that our voice, above all political divisions, should be very clear, strong, solidary, that's how it's done. only then will our voice be heard in cameroon, but also in other african countries that want to trade with us, and often do not remember the rights of the opposition, do not remember the rights of the people this cannot be.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, since the elections in cameroon last october, we have witnessed tensions in the country, particularly in the so-called anglophone regions; repression of demonstrations; and a narrowing of the political space. key opposition figures are under arrest – they face military trials. more than 100 protesters or sympathisers are facing prolonged detentions, and defence lawyers claim that cameroon’s own legal procedures are not being respected. a de facto ban has been imposed on marches and protests of the opposition, which is clearly not in line with the constitutional rights of cameroonian citizens. we have been following the situation closely, constantly, on behalf of all the 28 member states. we’ve asked for the release of detainees against whom hard evidence cannot be produced, and we have asked for an immediate halt to violence, to human rights violations and hate speech, and i insist on this message today. thank you for putting this important debate on the agenda on the last day of your mandate, to stress this message in a unified manner. regarding the situation in the english-speaking regions of the north-west and south-west, we have consistently called for dialogue as the only way to achieve a sustainable solution, in a non-violent and inclusive manner, respecting fundamental rights and the rule of law. regrettably, unlawful killings and atrocities continue to be reported regularly, allegedly involving both the security and defence forces and separatist groups. the humanitarian consequences of this situation are alarming, with about half a million internally-displaced people and over 32 000 refugees from cameroon registered in nigeria. we have raised our call for restraint and dialogue directly with the authorities of cameroon. in particular we are following closely the cases of the 47 anglophone leaders that are in jail, insisting on the need for a fair and transparent trial. these tensions add to the continuing attacks that some of you mentioned by boko haram in the far north, as well as in chad, niger and nigeria. we know that boko haram is not invincible and has suffered major setbacks, yet we are seeing civilian deaths and also losses by the security forces in cameroon. given that new refugees from nigeria have recently arrived in the far north region of cameroon, i wish to join the recent appeals from the unhcr that the universal principle of non-refoulement has to be respected fully. these are the reasons why we need to continue our humanitarian support as part of the international humanitarian response on the different and various fronts. if we consider both the internally-displaced people and the refugees that are coming from nigeria and the central african republic altogether, there are about one million people in need of help, and i believe we have a humanitarian duty we need to respond to. this is something, obviously, we cannot forget when assessing our future support to the people of cameroon. at the same time, we will continue to push for the respect of human rights in cameroon and to ask for light to be shed on human rights violations fully.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on brunei (2019/2692 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! and here you are again, a handful of deputies in an empty chamber, dangling their toe in their shoe, teaching the whole world how it should conduct its affairs. i ask myself every time what all the previous resolutions have given us, that we write the next one. they didn't give me anything. do you really think anyone reads this and cares? what would you do if you got a message from the sultan of brunei telling you, for example, that you should stop murdering your unborn children in europe or vote with a button, and not judge the majority by the eye and be wrong all the time? i think you'd be as concerned about that as the sultan of brunei would be about your lessons in this room. in this session of parliament we have already instructed libya, sudan, mozambique, malawi, zimbabwe, the usa, israel, romania, brunei, china and cameroon today. if we start to make a blacklist, i fear that only a few member states will be on that list, because probably not all. so i think it's a road to nowhere and we should just mind our own business and stop lecturing the whole world.
i would just like to point out that the sultan of brunei sent a letter to the european parliament yesterday, in which he tried to explain his position in advance.
mr president, i just wanted to respond to my polish colleague who has been questioning the value of the human rights debate. i come from czechoslovakia, now the czech republic, a country that was hit by communism. my dissident friends who fought against communism always told me how much they appreciated it when someone from a democratic western country stood up for them symbolically and expressed support. mr. speaker, do not question the importance of the human rights debate. human rights are universal, and for us to stand up for victims in third countries where human rights are denied makes a lot of sense to those people, it's moral support, and know that it helps those people in their next fight. the czech dissidents were helped by the fact that western politicians stood up for them, and everyone remembers what breakfast with then-president mitterrand meant to them. so what we're doing is good, and it's necessary for the sultan of brunei to step back from sharia law.
with this statement, we closed the history of this parliament's term of office with a 'catch-the-eye' speech by a member of parliament. (end of the line)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on 3 april brunei darussalam went on with the implementation of the 2013 penal code order. the court foresees, as you mentioned, punishments such as amputation, public flogging and death by stoning, which simply have no place in the world. also, there is a clear expansion in scope for the potential application of the death penalty, and you know our principled, clear, strong position against that penalty everywhere in the world. we believe there is no justification for these kinds of punishments – no crime justifies an amputation or torture, let alone the death penalty and, for sure, no person should be punished for loving someone. that can never be interpreted as a crime. these punishments – if applied – would constitute a violation of many of the international commitments undertaken by brunei darussalam. these acts are prohibited by the convention against torture and other cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment or punishment, which was signed by the country in 2015. they also go against the 2012 asean human rights declaration and they may also breach the country’s obligations as a party to the convention on the rights of the child and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. on the very day of the announcement, we reacted together with many of our international partners, starting with the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet. we expect now the government of brunei darussalam to make sure that the implementation of the penal court order will not infringe human rights and will be fully consistent with all international human rights obligations undertaken by the country. i think this debate is a very important opportunity to stress the expectations we have. we also expect the country to maintain its de facto moratorium on the use of the death penalty. let me add that we have been following this issue for years. it is not just a few weeks ago that we started to react. when the 2013 penal code was adopted, we suspended negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement with brunei, and since then we have raised the issue in all our meetings with the country’s authorities and in our annual reports on human rights and democracy in the country. it is now essential to prevent the application of such punishments. to this goal, we will first and foremost continue to put pressure bilaterally on the authorities of brunei, both directly and through the member states that are present in the country, and obviously the new eu special representative for human rights, eamon gilmore, will work on this. we will also continue to engage at the un human rights council, in particular within the ongoing universal periodic review, where brunei will be reviewed, and we will raise the issue with our asean partners, since this also represents a violation of a commitment taken by brunei in the asean framework. i will also have the possibility to raise this matter personally at our next annual european union-asean meeting next august. the ban on degrading punishments is not simply about european values. i want to underline this point that many of you have raised: these are universal values cherished by people of all backgrounds and of all faiths all around the world. these are rights that are not at the disposal of any authority or any country. they belong to all people and no state can take them away. this is about the dignity of each and every human being, and we, the european union, will continue to work for this dignity to be respected everywhere in the world, starting from europe. as this is the last debate of your mandate, i will maybe say a few words later, but let me thank each and every one of you for, in particular, the work we’ve done on human rights. i’ve appreciated this enormously. it has been incredibly helpful for the work of european union diplomacy around the world, and i can only share the views of those that mentioned the fact that we hope that in the next mandate, there will be a growing number of members of parliament that will engage on the promotion and the defence of human rights inside the european union and around the world. (applause)
your highness! i think the applause you received, partly standing, is proof that we value your cooperation very highly, that it has paid off. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report because i do not understand the logic that makes one vehicle count as two vehicles if it is a zero-emission vehicle, for example because there is no such thing as a zero-emission vehicle, because even a scooter emits some heat in the form of the heated muscles of the rider who rides it. so it is a fairy tale and unfortunately another directive that irresponsible meps are voting on and have no idea how their directives and regulations will be implemented. they don't know enough about it to see if there's really an environmental benefit to the fact that electric cars don't emit pollution where they're driven, but they do emit it at the power plant. do we have enough resources in our power grids to start charging a much-expanded fleet of electric cars? what about the batteries, the harmful substances in those batteries? in norway, there's already a problem with this. i therefore believe that this is another irresponsible regulation that threatens the car market in europe.
mr. chairman, please! the direction of policy and even the value system of each political community can be read from the figures in its budget. the decision to create a european defence fund is a small but significant step in the direction that chancellor merkel and the possible future president of the european commission, mr weber, have defined here in this room, the road to a european army. this is not the right direction for our partnership. most of our countries are allies in the atlantic alliance. we have not come here to build political power, but to support each other's independence. this is the proper call for european cooperation. that is why i warn you: let us not go any further in this direction!
mr. chairman, please! the resolution can be summed up as follows: we do not know what these substances are, how they are harmful or whether they are harmful, but we do know that we can regulate them and that no one can do this better than the european commission. it shows that you have learned nothing in this term, that this parliament has learned nothing from brexit, that the british people have had enough of your regulations, your arrogance, that they have decided to go through the difficult and painful divorce process just to not be subject to them any longer. can't you see that all of europe is fed up with you and soon this whole leftist elite that is ruling europe now will lose power here. i don't know what achievements this chamber has that give it the authority to be so arrogant and to expand the regulations even further. you've created a dying continent, a senior club, colonized by barbarians who can't reproduce themselves, and you're trying to export this failed experiment of yours to the whole world, teaching other countries that they should do the same stupid thing you did. you have destroyed europe, you want to destroy the world, and i think the european union should be destroyed.
mr president, we’ve reached the point in the debate where everything has been said but it has not yet been said by everybody. but i would like to congratulate ms von der leyen on what i thought was an impressive speech this morning. ms von der leyen, you’ve come a long way in your presentation with the house and your interaction with the groups here. i was particularly struck by your commitment to a gender-balanced college of commissioners. that will shake things up in itself. the scottish government has been gender-balanced for five years now. i commend our experience to you. congratulations. and on brexit: you are aware that scotland has a particular perspective on this matter, but you should also be aware that there are colleagues from across the house – in england and wales and northern ireland and elsewhere – working hard to bring some sense to brexit. we are united in the fact that the best brexit is no brexit. there are members of this house who will make noise. some of us are here to find solutions and i am very glad that you will be an ally in keeping the door open for us. you’re also very welcome to this house but to add another thing to your in-tray, this house is not complete. we are missing three members from catalonia, not least our group colleague oriol junqueras. the only solution to this intractable problem will be dialogue, and you, personally, are in a position to be an honest broker in that discussion. i hope you will play that role.
mr president, i would say to minister von der leyen that the european union has launched a humiliating procedure under article 7 towards poland. someone has decided that it is lawful when, for instance, judges accept the robbery of properties from people who are 115 years old while, on the other hand, it is unlawful when we restore people’s influence on the justice system. we are told, for example, that we are implementing a random assignment of matters in court. every time i ask to be shown at least one example – one, not eight, not ten – of a solution that we implement in poland which does not exist in another eu country, there is always the same answer. silence. madam minister, that’s why i’m asking: are you going to end this ridiculous political action under article 7?
in writing. it is good that the european commission will have a new president. i'm with ursula von der leyen. i know. it is also a pity that two member states of the european union - estonia and romania - will be without their own commissioners for months, because of the inability of the european parliament to elect one of its own commissioners, and therefore it will not be possible to hold hearings of these commissioners-designate. leaving two countries without a commissioner sends the wrong message, as if the commissioners should not ask the people for a mandate, because if the people recognise them for the work they have done and elect them to the european parliament, the state is deprived of the commissioner's post as a punishment. the fact that we are facing budgetary discussions for the next seven years makes the absence of two national commissioners all the more reprehensible.
in writing. i am voting in favour of accepting the candidacy of ursula von der leyen because i am convinced of her commitments in her political declaration. these commitments are in line with both my expectations and the demands of my party, the sld, and the s&d group. i welcome her promises to promote geopolitically sustainable economic development and to work on a minimum wage in the eu. the president assured that the rule of law would remain one of the eu's foundations and would be consistently enforced. it also announced the commission's work to curb the dangerous effects of climate change, including financing these activities with energy policy consideration and the introduction of tariffs on goods from countries that pollute the environment. the commission also announced measures to enhance security in the eu, including the arms industry and defence policy. finally, the fact that she confirmed the appointment of an s&d representative as first vice-president of the commission convinced me that the promises made would be fulfilled.
in writing. i would like to express my appreciation to the romanian presidency for its valuable chairmanship over the last months of the meetings of the council of the european union. the romanian presidency has taken a number of actions aimed at further strengthening the eu's internal security architecture, including the implementation of the renewed eu internal security strategy. poland has been an active participant in this process, taking part in discussions on the development of specific initiatives aimed, inter alia, at enhancing the capacity of member states to prevent and combat serious crime and terrorism. the romanian presidency's activities on border protection in the light of the ongoing migration crisis were aimed at reaching agreement on the draft amendment to the european border and coast guard regulation (ebcg) and the return directive. on the internal front, the romanian presidency continued to work towards progress on the reform of the common european asylum system (ceas). poland has demanded that all proposed systemic and interim solutions be taken on the basis of consensus and guarantee sovereignty and respect for the competences of the member states.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is becoming more dramatic by the day. the maduro regime, as the bachelet report has shown, gravely violates human rights and the most basic freedoms, as, deep down, we all knew. the cruel murder of captain acosta is the most recent evidence. sanctions are needed for those responsible for these grave human rights violations. changes in venezuela cannot, must not be delayed. the release of political prisoners, a transitional government and free presidential elections are urgently needed. the new barbados dialogue table, promoted by norway, must produce results soon and must not be used by the maduro regime to buy time, as has happened with other dialogue frameworks. the european union must be more actively involved. i think that a more decisive attitude by the council is necessary - i have said this on several occasions - in the face of the tragedy in venezuela. parliament has indeed been nimble, pushing for the swift recognition of guaidó a few months ago. the european union - and i conclude - must work in close cooperation with the lima group and the vast majority of the international community to put an end to this tragic nightmare suffered by our venezuelan brothers.
mr president, the humanitarian, political and economic crisis in venezuela needs an urgent response. the recent report by the office of the high commissioner for human rights (ohchr) on the situation is very worrying, because it paints a bleak picture of the human rights situation in the country. the only way out of the deadlock in which venezuelan society finds itself is through a negotiated solution that includes all sections of society. it is important that women, young people and minorities are included in the process, as they hold the keys to building an inclusive peace. i trust venezuelans will find a peaceful solution through the negotiation process currently facilitated by norway. as europeans, it is important that we support these talks and oppose any calls for a military intervention. war is not the solution. the future of venezuela should not be built on the use of violence, and the talks seem to be constructive. i call on all parties to continue working positively in order to reach the objective of holding free and fair elections with international observers. i want to state my full support for the pre-conditions laid out by the eu-led international contact group, including the release of political prisoners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative mogherini, it is time to take stock of your mandate as well. our overall assessment of these five years is negative, but in the particular case of venezuela we recognize that the commission has made important efforts. we regret, however, that the council failed to adopt a resolution a few months ago in support of the legitimate president guaidó, on account of the government of my country, italy, which did not want to sign it, a heavy stain. the situation is dramatic, as my colleagues have said. six million people living in tragic conditions, more than four million people who have left the country, genuine refugees who probably do not attract the attention of international public opinion because they do not have carola rackete, george soros and roberto saviano behind them, who tear their clothes for them, but they are genuine refugees who need help. we therefore support the diplomatic efforts, we ask the commission to support the mediation process which norway has undertaken today towards new free and transparent elections, sharing the wishes of the venezuelan bishops' conference, which i would like to thank for the great work it is doing and which a few days ago called for the removal of those illegitimately in power and the election of a new president of the republic as soon as possible. these are sensible words, measured words of common sense which must be put into practice soon.
mr. chairman, please! the humanitarian crisis in venezuela is getting worse by the day. the continued attention of the international community, and in particular the european union, is undoubtedly what the venezuelan opposition needs today. yes, talks are underway in barbados, but this cannot be allowed to lull the international community into a state of alert. let's remember that it was international pressure that got the maduro regime to the table in the first place. so above all, we must remember the individual suffering and tragedy of thousands of venezuelans, where nearly four million people are affected by malnutrition. this is especially true for pregnant women and children. the minimum wage is $7 a month, so many people choose to emigrate to neighboring countries: colombia, peru, ecuador, brazil, and chile. as for venezuela itself, the only way to help is through the distribution of food and medicine from below, which will not solve the problems, but will allow it to survive until a political solution is found. polish ngos are directly helping venezuelans. the role of churches and faith-based associations and partner organisations is also invaluable. the union must therefore also help the refugees in venezuela. the role of the union is therefore to help, and we should do so as soon as possible, using the polish model of direct aid on the ground.
mr. chairman, please! as a long-time representative, head of the polish-moldovan parliamentary assembly, i wanted to emphasise that we can indeed feel this atmosphere of hope in chisinau, but it can be very fragile and can quickly die. indeed, moldova requires very fast, active action from us and this can make very practical sense not only on the basis of an association agreement because it's a good course but for example in the form of an erasmus+ programme on the basis of full membership. it's achievable quickly, and not just on a partnership basis. of course, financial aid, advice - it must be a country free from corruption - but also the question of the judiciary, the constitutional court. these are the fundamental challenges facing mai sand's government. but i wanted to stress that our activity - both in parliament and on the part of the european commission - must be continuous and active. this is what the moldovan society expects today.
mr president, finland is a great country and i think they will have a great presidency. there are many great colleagues and also a wonderful commissioner. i have just two questions, one in relation to brexit. i was very pleased when president von der leyen, said she was going to honour the withdrawal agreement and the backstop, and also be flexible on an extension, if required. will the finnish presidency ensure that the council are equally flexible, if appropriate? second question: i’ve been involved in trying to end the biannual clock change for a number of years. we passed a resolution in parliament and the commission did a public consultation where over 80% of respondents said they wanted to end it. the next six months are going to be crucial for the council to make decisions in that regard. will the finnish presidency ensure that the decision of parliament and the voice of citizens will be respected in that regard?
mr president, commissioner, i want to wish you success. you are taking over the presidency after my country's presidency, a successful presidency. i wish you luck! i like what i'm hearing here. you want to take account of the citizens' problems, the single market, very important, i am the vice-president of the internal market commission. you also want security, education, research. these are the things we need. but we need one europe. please very much, on your presidency, try not to separate east and west anymore. try to get the two countries, romania and bulgaria, to be part of schengen, because they meet these conditions. and i want to ask you something else. you said we have to take into account the citizens. i have referred the former prime minister of finland to a very serious case in finland, the case of dr smikala, with the two children taken and separated from their mother. try to solve and set an example that human rights can be respected. and last but not least, i would ask you very much to take into account in the negotiations the mobility package and the cohesion fund: we must negotiate them in such a way that we do not split europe in two.
mr president, a minute simply to denounce the arbitrariness with which the previous president has handled the 'catch-the-eye' interventions. he set two criteria at the end: priority for the finns and that members from member states who had already spoken would not speak. i've been there from the beginning and made sure she was enrolled. it has not met the criteria and i would of course like to stress that i have been listening from the start, and to denounce that i do not share the criteria and i do not share the arbitrariness.
but, mr president, i am sorry, the 'catch-the-eye' instrument is a tool which, as you know, cannot allow everyone to speak, so president wieland's choice will have been, shall we say, the one which is suitable for allowing everyone to speak in the time allotted.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as the prime minister heard he has strong support for his presidency agenda from the members of this house. in particular, two topics were raised in most speeches, namely rule of law and climate policy. rule of law, or lack of it, is like oxygen: you realise the value of it when it’s running out. as i said in my introductory speech, the finnish presidency is the first to prioritise the rule of law, and for good reason. independent judiciary, free and pluralistic media, human rights and human dignity, democracy – these are the basic values upon which european integration, but also our member states, have been built. so, even if one wins the majority in the national elections, it does not mean that these fundamental values can be violated. the fact that this is one of the priorities of the presidency allows this house – the european parliament – but also the member states, to take a position on this very fundamental issue. on behalf of the commission, i want to thank you once again for what you have chosen to prioritise. on climate policy, some members said – quite well – that, just as important as talking about dates or years or percentages, is to devise ways of how we can achieve our ambitious targets. here the circular economy comes into the picture. yesterday i was very pleased personally when the newly elected commission president von der leyen said that she will propose a new circular economy action plan that will concentrate mostly on the construction sector and the textile sector, which are resource-consuming sectors where we need to improve our actions. finally, from the commission’s perspective, it’s very positive that the finnish presidency makes a new experiment, improving the transparency of the work of the council. from my own personal viewpoint i’ve been wondering what on earth needs to happen for the other european institutions to follow the example of the european commission, which is by far the most transparent institution in the eu. i must say that i only have very good experiences of this transparency in the european commission, so i encourage the other european institutions to follow their example.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this very important opportunity for me to address parliament on our priorities in the programme. i would say that the big issue for me is climate change. i will now say a few words in finnish. hyvät ystävät, minulla on neljä tytärtä ja kolme lastenlasta. suomessa olen käyttänyt useamman puheenvuoron, joissa olen todennut, että haluan heidän kysymykseensä siitä, mitä teitte ilmastonmuutokselle, vastata sen, että kaikki mitä osattiin ja pystyttiin tekemään. ja että saatiin pysäytettyä ilmastonmuutos. toinen vaihtoehto on se, että emme tehneet mitään, koska emme uskaltaneet tehdä yhdessä yhtään mitään. nyt on tärkeää, että eurooppalainen yhteistyö keskittyy ottamaan ilmastopolitiikassa johtajuuden tavalla, joka saa maapallolla ilmaston globaalin lämpenemisen pysäytettyä siihen 1,5 asteeseen, joka on koko ihmiskunnan näkökulmasta ja tulevien sukupolvien näkökulmasta äärimmäisen tärkeä tavoite, ja se pitää viedä läpi. i believe, also, that the big question of the rule of law is very important for the whole european future. i think that the big issue is that we, together, can make stronger and stronger these rule of law principles when we are developing our cooperation here at european level. thank you very much and i hope we can work together in future as closely as possible. (applause)
thank you, prime minister, good work. a very important semester begins, which accompanies the beginning of the legislature. the debate is closed. i'd like to invite all my colleagues to take their seats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak on a very serious matter that has occurred today. ladies and gentlemen, today a great italian, a great european citizen, andrea camilleri, one of the most influential intellectuals of our time, a tenacious defender of the values of freedom, democracy and justice, a relentless anti-fascist, a convinced europeanist, a humble teacher who knew how to tell, through the episodes of montalbano, the story of sicily, a wonderful and generous land, the mother of extraordinary men like him, has died. i'm thinking of giovanni falcone and paolo borsellino. they were the best. thank you, maestro camilleri, for what you have given us and for representing italy in the world with your unforgettable writing.
thank you, mr moretti. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european union, as a common european project, is an unquestionable guarantor of peace and prosperity for the people of the individual member states. the european parliament elections have recently taken place and citizens have clearly shown their commitment to the common european project. but they are asking us, as their representatives, to make the greatest possible effort to minimise the impact of climate change and to create the conditions for a clean, energy-efficient and modern economy that will ensure that new jobs are created in the future. the finnish presidency has a great opportunity to work together to create a better future that is socially, economically, but above all ecologically sustainable. in the months ahead, it will be crucial to work together to preserve the unity of the european union, which is being destabilised by brexit, and to bring an end to this painful process for all concerned. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. i am confident that the finnish presidency will also succeed in making a smooth transition to the next legislative cycle and in building constructive relations, because only by working together can we move the european union forward.
in writing. thank you, i was disappointed to read that the finnish presidency did not include the enlargement of the eu to the western balkans in its programme. it's practically a single paragraph. in contrast, the bulgarian, austrian and romanian presidencies of recent years have also dealt with this issue in a high-level manner. the stability and unity of europe is key and everyone agrees on that. however, this requires the early accession of the western balkan candidate countries. unfortunately, enlargement is not a popular topic in many of the eu's old member states, but this cannot be a reason to classify the eu policy that successfully united the western and eastern halves of europe in 2004 as an unpleasant, pressing issue. i ask the finnish presidency to make up for this shortcoming at the operational level, as there must be no break in the continuity that has characterised the last two years and for which the european parliament is one of the biggest supporters.
in writing. we welcome finn's ambitions for the presidency. it is encouraging that, in the context of the future of work, they want to examine in detail the situation of platform workers, to give priority to lifelong learning and to analyse the situation of people who are able to work part-time. i would like to point out that the integration of disabled people and people with reduced working capacity into the labour market is a top priority today and i am disappointed that it is not on the presidency's agenda, despite the enormous potential for their inclusion in the labour market and the fact that, thanks to assistive technologies, there are fewer and fewer obstacles to their employment. modern responses to labour shortages should be provided in our time, but unfortunately this has not been done in the finnish presidency programme: it is a well-known fact that in the age of automation and robotics, we need a more and more skilled workforce, not to help immigration of low-skilled people. it is surprising that the finnish presidency would support immigration, since statistics show that only a few percent of unskilled immigrants are able to work in the host country. at the same time, the free movement of labour is a key issue and one of the four freedoms of the eu, which is why it is necessary to allow eu citizens to take up employment in other eu member states without discrimination. the mobility of workers from eastern europe must not be hampered by the protectionism of western european member states: they are entitled to equal treatment and must not be disadvantaged in the labour market by administrative or other measures.
in writing. while i thank you for the ambitious programme of the finnish presidency, i also ask you to tackle three issues that are crucial for ensuring justice, social equality and respect for european values. first, it is crucial to agree on a financial framework. we need an ambitious budget, with significant support for cohesion and agricultural policy. in this context, i call on the finnish presidency to actively support the european parliament's position on the eu budget after 2020, which provides for more money for agriculture and regional development. secondly, it is important to work towards a european minimum wage at a level that ensures a decent life for all europeans. the current disparities between member states are unacceptable. a european minimum wage is key to reducing inequalities between eu citizens, eradicating poverty and ensuring equal opportunities. thirdly, i am pleased that the rule of law is an important part of the presidency's agenda. that is why i support the measures planned in this area. however, i would point out the prudent approach to linking the rule of law with expenditure from the eu budget. we cannot allow a situation in which the failure of member state governments to respect the law is paid for by young people, scientists, farmers or other groups of beneficiaries of eu funds who share our european values and who hope for a better tomorrow in the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in the central mediterranean is shameful. human trafficking is constantly supported by the actions of unscrupulous ngos which, in order to achieve their political aims, are prepared to violate the laws and territorial waters of a sovereign state, which also coincide with the external borders of the european union, as well as the laws of the sea themselves, and which instead use their own defense hypocritically, as was the case with the outlaw carola rackete, who ended her long series of violations by breaching the watch of the italian financial guard, risking causing a tragedy. some people would even like to give this outlaw a runway in this parliament. all this in complicit silence on the part of the european authorities and with hypocritical declarations by some governments, starting with those of france and germany. we therefore want fewer ngos and more military ships at sea, because the only way to stop human trafficking and deaths at sea is to prevent the death boats from leaving africa and to open identification centres there to distinguish between those who are genuine refugees and those who are economic brigands and must be repatriated, and that is why we want a european mechanism for the return of migrants, because only in this way can this illegal and immoral traffic be stopped.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm also a new member of the polish parliament, i'm a lawyer, a lawyer, i'm a lawyer of the sea. what my colleague just said is horrible and inhuman. do you think that we europeans are different, better people than the refugees from africa? could we be rescued in the mediterranean and refugees from needy countries not? where are our european, basic christian values?
the answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to say to the person who just spoke to me that if i have to choose between the misunderstood sovereignty of a member state and the duty to protect human beings, the choice is not difficult to make. what i would like to add to my remarks is that there are states in our european union which behave as if they had never heard of law, of community of values and respect for humanitarian law. it is imperative, and i repeat what i said in the introduction, that those who do not respect these principles, i will spit on them.
madam president, 682 people have died this year trying to cross the mediterranean to europe. this tragic record should make us think about the best way to prevent such tragedies from happening again. in my view, the solution is not to open our ports to migrant boats chartered by smugglers, nor is it to create legal immigration routes, because in either case, this would create an air call that would encourage more and more migrants to attempt the mediterranean crossing, risking their lives. the real solution is the one indicated by italy, which consists in systematically turning back migrant boats and punishing their captains when they behave like smugglers. it also means exchanging our aid to african countries for their commitment to actually tackle the immigration of their own nationals. only by adopting this policy of firmness will europe succeed in protecting itself and saving lives.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european union must be one step ahead of the smugglers. this kind of migration policy cannot be driven by emotion and must be long-term, consistent and coherent, and it must be based on prudence. so let's go to the source. from the conversations i had as poland's minister of humanitarian aid with refugees directly, it was clear that organized crime groups, for a fee of between eur 1,200 and usd 1,500, offered transportation to europe and informed about the procedures for bringing families back. there is only one remedy: to increase development aid to african countries and to implement a wide-ranging information campaign on our return and asylum policies. and we need to examine very carefully what the real intentions are of the captains of the ships that take in migrants from the sea and help transfer them from africa to europe. can we still talk about sar action or criminalizing aid to illegal immigrants? this is a big job for international crime agencies. this issue cannot divide us, but must become the basis for a common long-term strategy against illegal immigration. people need saving, that's true, but someone is sending them to certain death. let's not be naive.
mr. chairman, please! i believe ursula von der leyen will deliver on the promises she made, the promises to save lives at sea. i would also like to ask you to ensure that we do not close the european maritime rescue system to anyone. every life is worth the same. it is one thing to save lives, but it is another to have asylum and relocation policies and the situation of those who are saved. you can't confuse the two orders, because it's immoral. i would very much like all of us, all countries, to show solidarity in this european field. we cannot leave this burden to some countries. i'm sorry, because poland, my country, unfortunately, is not involved in these matters. we can't blame those who save lives either. we cannot criminalize the rescuers, and we must establish a system of assistance for those who flee, and they flee because this escape by sea is the only way out.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his efforts to distribute humanitarian aid effectively, with the primary concern of saving and protecting lives. however, i cannot hide my disappointment that as a european union we have failed as a whole to tackle the causes. but as the flood of refugees reaches europe's mediterranean shores, our culture dictates that saving human lives is not a crime, it's our moral obligation. but when turkey deliberately airlifts hundreds of refugees into the occupied northern part of cyprus, which is held by the turkish army, to then pass through the free zones and reach europe, this is indeed a crime, which the cypriot government has consistently denounced.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, dear colleagues, for this very important debate. the commission considers that humanitarian imperatives have been, and shall continue to be, at the forefront of european union action. as i said in my opening remarks, the commission has repeatedly recalled that the eu and its member states are bound by the duty to render assistance to persons or vessels in distress at sea, and it is an obligation under international law. it is a moral duty. international law is binding on states which are obliged to subject the captains of private, commercial or military vessels to the corresponding duty to render assistance. saving lives at sea must therefore go hand in hand with addressing the main causes of irregular migration and improving the situation of migrants in libya and other countries in offering safe alternatives such as resettlement for those entitled to international protection or legal labour migration schemes for those who qualify. i wish also to renew once again my appeal to all member states to make their contribution to speeding up evacuation of vulnerable migrants and refugees from libya and niger. i thank you for your support in building a comprehensive eu response – a holistic eu response – and as i said, the commission stands ready to continue to provide all the political, technical and financial support that member states need to address the situation in the mediterranean, and in particular to reach an agreement on temporary arrangements. the four years since the adoption of the european agenda on migration have shown that the situation requires continuous determined action across the full range of the comprehensive approach. the lesson is that united action and joint efforts from member states and the eu, in close cooperation with partners beyond the eu, has delivered results and is the only way to achieve better management of migration and to ensure that the european union’s values remain the cornerstone of our migration policy. this is what eu citizens expect from the european union, from the european institutions. again, i will quote the president-elect from yesterday: we need solidarity. we all need to help each other and contribute. we need a new way of burden-sharing. and we must make fair cooperation offers to countries of origin and transit which are in the interest of both sides. these are our priorities and we have to start immediately.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the presidency is fully aware of the critical importance of providing humanitarian assistance in the mediterranean sea and we are committed to working on a solution in collaboration with all stakeholders. i am grateful for your comments made during this discussion. i listened to them very carefully and i wish to react to them accordingly. as i said previously, we are working to find an arrangement, humane in nature, that brings predictability in accordance with the international law of the sea, concerning disembarkation and enables efficient asylum and return policies. our presidency will continue active work on temporary arrangements. actually the informal meeting of ministers of the interior will take place tomorrow in helsinki and the situation in the mediterranean will be discussed there. furthermore, our minister of the interior has also invited all her member state colleagues to an informal dinner no later than today to discuss the immediate situation in the mediterranean. it is clear that we need european solutions here. close and intensive cooperation between institutions and common understanding among the member states are key for the future migration policy. it is also very important that the new commission also aims high here. as the new commission president said yesterday in this very chamber, we have a common responsibility to save lives at sea. every life matters. every life is equally important. it is of the utmost importance that we succeed quickly even if only with a temporary solution. however, we need one that covers all aspects. the eu as a whole, not to mention the migrants themselves, do not deserve that this situation stays unresolved. at the same time, we will continue working on the reform of the common european asylum system to provide a permanent and humane solution to situations, such as the ones mentioned, in the future. i remain confident that, thanks to all our efforts, we can take an important step forward towards this goal. thank you very much again for your contributions and for your attention.
with this intervention our debate is closed. before we move on to the next item on the agenda, we will pause for a brief five-minute moment in consideration of the commissioner and the council representative who have been with us for some time. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i am pleased that we are starting the work of the new ep with a debate on the humanitarian situation in the mediterranean. the migration crisis of recent years has shown that we need to develop a system so that migrants who reach eu shores can find help and shelter, rather than drowning on our watch. our job is to save lives. is that not why we have written in our treaties and conventions of the european community the need to protect human life?! during the debate, a lot was said about penalizing ngos that rescue people from sinking boats. the efforts of the italian government, the coast guard, frontex and nato are not enough to deal with the huge numbers of people trying to reach europe. i hope that in the coming months we will be able to develop a long-term, coherent migration management policy, based on a humane approach to the human being, rather than on the particular interests of the member states. we must create conditions worthy of the migrants who have already arrived. to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a graveyard, we must create humanitarian conditions (access to water, food, medicine) and development opportunities in the countries from which these people are fleeing. instead of building walls, let's think about what we can do to make sure that migrants want to and can stay in their places of origin. it's the only way to reduce the number of immigrants, which could be more in the future. this is the most important issue of the current ep term.
mr. chairman, please! dear colleagues! health, clean air, these are things we don't have to take for granted. all countries should support each other and take organized and systematic action. when the government was formed in 2015, there were declarations (and then concrete actions): we are improving the climate, we are improving the air, we are improving energy efficiency, and we are also working to eliminate energy poverty. in poland, we rely on three pillars. first, standards for solid fuel boilers have been established for the first time. and these are the standards that will be in place in the european union from 2020. in addition, the quality of solid fuels was determined for the first time, and in addition, various types of registrations were carried out, laws that introduce tax breaks, educational programs, including the idea of creating educational networks of schools called "anti-smog". we've already got 350 schools in them.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, we need to start by correcting the words that were spoken in this room. we cannot allow the word to be used that we do not know how many deaths have occurred in europe because of air pollution. it was congresswoman limmer who said that, so we need to get this straight. congresswoman, the hard data says that air pollution kills 400,000, close to 500,000 people. and it is not that we should drive around our cities in wooden cars, as the honourable member said, but that we should build modern, well-connected, well-built infrastructural cities. and we need to support local governments, we need to support regions, we need to support community organizations that know best how to rebuild cities so that people can live in maximum comfort. and we have examples of that in europe. stockholm, for example, was the first city to introduce clean zones. we have cities like berlin, hanover, where all this works and people just live healthy and safe. and finally, there's this city in spain, pontevedra, where they've reduced traffic in the center by 53 percent, and in the downtown by 97 percent. and another interesting thing about this city: there hasn't been a single fatal car accident since 2011, so we have a multi-faceted action: modern, well-connected cities that are being built by their regions, local governments and community organizations.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! as a politician, but above all as a doctor, i am aware of the importance of the air we breathe to the quality of our lives. however, the issue is complex, as the european union's competence in this area is limited. in particular, union law does not require the establishment of traffic-free or traffic-restricted zones and such decisions are left to local communities. member states and local authorities have many other tools to improve air quality. in addition, more than 20 member states are now having problems meeting air quality standards, so the problem is not confined to one place. i think we need more innovative approaches to energy, transportation and spatial planning. as a doctor, i am also faithful to the principle of primum non nocere. we should take into account the conditions and wishes of local communities, because top-down solutions that do not suit them can have negative consequences in the long run.
mr. chairman, please. without air, there is no life, and poor air worsens the quality of life, damages health, and even shortens life. resolutions and directives adopted on this subject list many causes of polluted air. many possible solutions and measures are also mentioned, but the question is to what extent and in what time we are able to implement them. the programme of the newly elected president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, is ambitious, and rightly so. the priorities of the finnish presidency were presented today. it was stressed that the european union must become a leading force in this area and also reach a wider agreement on climate change and the environment. the issue is complex and needs to be addressed at several levels and across sectors, within the member states and also within the european union. some cities have a well-developed public transport network and a network of cycle paths, so this needs to be further encouraged by member states and also by the city authorities, and the financial aspect is also important for the implementation of projects. investing in new technologies is promising and leads to progress. the challenges are many, and clean air is a basic human right. we have a lot of work to do to improve the air quality in our cities. i hope there will be sufficient funds and reasonable measures.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking today about a problem affecting millions of europeans: how to combat effectively the deadly threat of smog, how to ensure clean air in our cities. for 12 years i was the marshal of świętokrzyskie voivodeship - one of the regions in poland - and i know what a burden smog is for people, which kills over 40 thousand people in poland every year. that is why we have implemented the 'green sanctuaries' programme in our region to take care of clean air in the context of ecological, sustainable development, which concerns one of the regions with the highest percentage of protected natural areas. today, together with the polish local authorities, i would like to call for a solution to restore the suspended eu funding for the national clean air programme, which also has the same objective. but in addition to low emissions, transport emissions also contribute to smog. restricting the entry of certain vehicles into cities can effectively curb smog, but at the same time it can contribute to the exclusion of traffic and thus to the reduction of work opportunities for our citizens. this is particularly true in countries where income is lower and buying a car that meets high emission standards is a big challenge. we cannot allow this, and that is why the introduction of these zones must be accompanied by the development of efficient urban and agglomeration transport and the creation of car parks on the outskirts of these zones. we also need to ensure that alternative fuels infrastructure is developed to promote low-carbon technologies.
mr. chairman, please! smog is one of the problems faced by the inhabitants of large european cities, but it is not a problem that is completely absent in small towns and villages, especially in the winter when it is the heating season. and i regret to say that the people who live there are often burning all kinds of waste, plastic and other waste that has a very negative impact on our health. as many of you have said here, pollution is 400,000 deaths across the european union, and 40,000 deaths a year in my country, poland. and of the cities on the blacklist, the 50 most polluted are in my country. ladies and gentlemen! everyone here is talking about how to fight smog. i think it's not that simple creating car-free zones, especially the old diesel ones, is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately without education, without changing social awareness, without changing habits, and finally without financial means, there is no easy way to change this trend and this danger for all of us. we should certainly do everything we can to put pressure on governments, local governments, to make this fight as effective as possible, and i think, ladies and gentlemen, that the best way is also to have european union money go to local governments, because they will deal with this problem the fastest, because often the funds managed by the states are... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to start with the following. of course i support all measures that will allow us to leave our kids cleaner air than what we have at the moment. that is for sure. i don’t think anyone in their right mind would support polluting the air for no reason, but i have some doubts that clean air zones are the answer. it’s probably very easy to find enemies, such as the family car, to blame but, let’s face it, probably for some families that’s the only way that the family could travel from here to there. we cannot blame them and punish them for the problems that we have for other reasons. by the way, we’re having this debate in the same chamber that voted for mobility package 1 at first reading a few months ago, which includes measures like the return of the truck, which means an empty truck will travel from the atlantic ocean to the black sea for no reason. that was supported by the greens, who are missing this debate now. i think we should set more goals which are reachable and which do not only sound good on paper and remain on paper, but could be achieved. probably asking for 100% less co2 from cars means that in 10 years we will have either no cars or cars that cost 10 times more than they cost at the moment, and probably we would use horses instead of cars. i don’t think this is the way we should proceed and we should be reasonable and honest with the people and with the voters.
mr. chairman, please! we hear from our kids that we're living in a climate crisis, because it's not about climate change anymore, it's a real crisis. a few weeks ago, i was protesting with my daughters in the center of gdańsk as part of a holiday climate protest. imagine that there are still cities in europe where children on their way to school inhale as much pollution as a pack of cigarettes. so when i hear politicians who are dismissing the climate crisis and trying to tell us that it's eco-fancy, it's really those politicians who are killing our children. clean air is a public good. it's our common heritage. and we cannot allow it to become the subject of political warfare. we need to put education first. we have to set a good example and change our habits.
madam president, the european union’s forests are classified among the most valuable natural areas in the word. the carpathian forest is one example. unfortunately, what is happening there nowadays raises the question: is it a second białowieża case? the polish minister of the environment decided on the mass logging of the forest. the white carpathians initiative, wwf poland and the polish natural heritage foundation are alarmed. the logging site covers natura 2000 areas and violates eu law, namely the habitats and birds directives. it’s high time for eu action on this matter, and for the strong voice of the commission and the court of justice to be heard.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that my country, poland, is one of the leaders in the union when it comes to sustainable, multifunctional forest management. it should also be added that it is a self-financing economy. the amount of timber harvested has doubled in the last thirty years, but without harming the country's forest resources, as evidenced by the steady increase in forest area. today, forests cover nearly 30 percent of poland. in this context, it is fortunate that forests have finally been included in the climate and energy policy framework by a regulation of the parliament and the council of may 2018, which means that the absorption of co2 emissions by forests will finally be included in the emission balances of individual eu countries. this will have a positive impact on forestry development after 2020. unfortunately, climate change is having a negative impact on europe's forests: high temperatures, long periods of drought, snowless winters and, in addition, extreme weather events such as hurricane winds, as well as the invasion of pests, including in particular the printer's moth, are causing enormous damage, which requires support for forest management. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. indeed, there has been a lot of confusion about the national forests in poland in recent months, especially when it comes to this case of a printer's comb in the białowieża forest. but the data i just presented shows that the polish state forests are leading the way in forest management across the european union. and what's more -- and i want to stress this very strongly -- is that this is a self-financing economy. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, forests go before people, deserts follow, chateaubriand said. while this is true in some parts of the world - and this summer's news reminded us of it - europe is an exception, with one hectare of european forest being lost every four seconds. it is a chance, but it is also a great responsibility. in the face of intense heat waves, pest infestations and wood diseases, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that our european forests are well managed and continue to play an economic, social and environmental role. the potential of european forests for the implementation of the paris agreement is extraordinary. we must still allow ourselves to exploit our resources in full respect of sustainable development and the long-term growth of our forest heritage. there is no common forestry policy, but european policies can have an impact on national policies. it is therefore essential, commissioner, that the appropriations for the second pillar of the cap be maintained for the next budgetary programming. they are essential to support forest owners in their sustainable forest management. we also believe that our research project should be mobilised to support adaptation to climate change.
mr president, in its recent communication on the protection of forests, the commission envisages additional regulatory measures to combat deforestation and better protect forests. so two questions. firstly, do you intend to introduce binding regulations to ensure that products at risk to forests, for example products from intensive agriculture or mining, which are much less talked about and are a major cause of deforestation, and therefore that these products which are placed on the union market are not linked to deforestation, and within what timeframe? the second question is: in order to make trade agreements a real lever against deforestation, do you intend to make the sustainable development chapter binding, with sanctions? i'll give you an example of this canadian mining industry that uprooted no less than 195,000 trees in turkey, ten times more than originally planned. how can we ensure that the gold mined by this company will not end up on the european market thanks to the ceta free trade agreement?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our forest is a habitat, a supplier of wood, a recreation area and a climate protector at the same time. but right now, he's our patient, because heat, bark beetles, and storms are hitting him harder than ever. what our forest needs is care. we must not leave our hope-bearer against climate change alone, but must support him. according to eurostat, europe's forests absorb 10% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions each year. it is clear that a managed forest is more effective in combating climate change than a forest left to itself. why would you do that? on the one hand, wood as a building material binds carbon permanently, and on the other hand, sustainable management ensures above all healthy trees and thus a maximum co2 absorption capacity. poorly managed forests, on the other hand, are the losers of climate change. not only are they prone to drought, but they're also breeding grounds for pests. sustainable and active forest management is therefore a guarantee of healthy forests and their high co2 absorption capacity. in order to achieve these objectives, i am committed to the further development of the european forest strategy, which calls for new but above all healthy forests. i look forward to working with you. the committee on agriculture will also be drawing up proposals to this end. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr lins! - what are you doing? would you agree that we should actually use projects and european funds, for example from the life programme or horizon 2020, in the field of bark beetle research? i believe that biological agents are already well suited to the control of bark beetles, but that they should be studied further. that is precisely the direction in which we must go together.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that this is a good idea, a good way for the european side to give its support.
our next speaker is simone schmiedtbauer from the green state of styria in austria, who, like many others, is giving her maiden speech today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! forests are one of the most important components of our ecosystems. their ability to absorb and offset part of the greenhouse gas emissions depends on their condition. the state of the forests also determines the level of biodiversity. they are also an economic factor that underpins many european jobs, especially at local level. i agree with the commission's assessment that the european forest strategy should take decisive action that can help member states, forest owners and managers to combat the problems of fires, disasters, diseases or forest pests. today we must tackle this problem at european level, because individual action may not be as effective. although i agree that the basic level should be the national level, as close as possible to the problem. this must be supported at many levels, from coordination through the mobilisation of appropriate funds from the common agricultural policy or the life programme to supporting research and development. the forest strategy should be reflected in the 'horizon europe' programme. the regeneration of forestry is a priority, on the one hand, and the strengthening of the forest's resistance to pests and weather. nor can we forget the infrastructure needed in emergencies and the support services that need to be deployed at member state level in the event of fires or hurricanes.
madam president! as of 2 january 2019, the c na purchase visas issued to belarusian citizens travelling to poland have been abolished. as a result of eu regulations, they can use tourist visas provided they meet a number of formal requirements: confirmation of hotel reservations, possession of a certain amount of money. as a result, the number of belarusians from the border areas coming to our region podlaskie province to shop has decreased significantly. cross-border trade provides many jobs, it provides livelihoods for the people - it is now threatened. consideration should be given to reintroducing purchase visas or simplifying the formalities for tourist visas. the new visa restrictions are also contrary to the spirit and principles of the eastern partnership of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today i would like to sound the alarm about human trafficking, trafficking in children, trafficking in women for prostitution. they are cross-border networks. that is why i have taken the liberty of writing a letter to the president of parliament, but i also ask the commission to intervene urgently through the agencies that we pay from the budget of the european union, such as europol, and to carry out an investigation in all the member states, because no single state will ever be able to solve these networks of trafficking in human beings, of trafficking in live meat. i must stress that the european union also means the security of its citizens. citizens' rights, human rights also mean security. i must also say that children's rights are not respected either, and i have a concrete example in the country that holds the presidency, finland. institutionalized children are not allowed to speak their minds, although the law states that they can appear in court at the age of twelve. it's the case of dr. simic with two children. he's been struggling for three years. we have to think, however, not only about economic development, not only about other things, but also about the protection of human rights. i have to say that respect for human rights should be looked at not only in the eastern countries, because trafficking is done from the east to the western countries. i therefore call for this inquiry in all member states.
madam president, please. as the representative of soproni, i would like to start by commemorating the 30th anniversary of the pan-european picnic. it is precisely because we, sopronians, but also my fellow representatives from post-communist and western countries in this room, have benefited a lot from the pride that we had in that time, 30 years ago, to be part of the creation of freedom, of unity. it is very interesting that 30 years later, this unity, this political, moral and social horizon that we opened up then, tolerance, equality and freedom, seems to be disappearing more and more, and the european union is moving towards disintegration, if not otherwise, then economically. there are 120 million poor people who don't have basic sanitation to live in, like toilets, a sewer system, or clean drinking water, and i think that in the first 100 days of the von der leyen commission, this issue needs to be integrated. if we do not find a cure for poverty in europe, then our democracies are basically lions with no teeth, unable to do anything about the fundamental interests of their citizens. not to mention that it's also economically very lagging behind the european union. thank you so much. i ask that we do something about poverty in europe, in keeping with the ideals of 30 years ago.
madam president, colleagues have probably heard of the smear campaign against judges critical of the polish government, the so—called piebiak scandal. łukasz piebiak was poland’s deputy minister of justice, who resigned after a news portal published communications via whatsapp and facebook messenger. these communications could be evidence of a campaign of intimidation, coordinated from within the justice ministry, against judges resisting government efforts to take control of the polish judiciary. nemo judex in causa sua, but the general prosecutor is, at the same time, the minister of justice and supervises their proceedings. it is high time to set up a special inquiry committee within this parliament in order to ensure independent proceedings in this matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commissioner's speech included the words 'ambition', 'determination'. fortunately, the term "real action" has emerged. that's why i want to ask you a question. are we prepared to discuss this after a real analysis of the actions, but also the possibilities, of individual countries? do we have any real investments planned for the next few years? finally, to make this all real, do we have any real funding? the commissioner spoke of a huge amount of over 320 billion euros for environmental action, but he forgot to say that the commission has not prepared a budget for the transition. parliament has taken note of this and is proposing a small amount: €5 billion. at the same time, i want to ask whether such ambitious plans will not result in if other economies do not join us emissions increasing instead of decreasing because the whole european union will move to countries where you can afford a lower standard for a high-carbon economy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. this week, the world's media will be flooded with news of the unprecedented climate summit in new york. it is clear that environmental policy has become the mainstream of politics. we hear it all over the world. the un says that these events - and i quote - together will send a strong signal and give a boost to the race to the top among nations. this is essential to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. so much for the un. i would like to remind the council and commission representatives and the commissioner that we should be careful about the pace of this race. the pursuit of a sustainable future must go hand in hand with solidarity, with the social groups and regions - those most affected by the accelerated changes in the structure of european economies. in new york, you will also represent socially disadvantaged citizens from countries that need much more time to make the energy transition. don't forget about them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i represent the citizens of a country, hungary, which is not yet part of the eurozone. he plans to enter, but only by learning from the past when he's properly prepared. this is happening because our economy is getting stronger, and thanks to structural reforms, hungary's economy is now the fastest growing in the union, at 5.2%, four times the eu average, and citizens can already benefit from this through rising wages. i would like to ask the future president of the central bank that under his leadership the institution pursue a monetary policy that takes into account the interests of euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries. we are all part of the single market, so we should not allow anything to happen in the euro area that makes life difficult for those outside. for example, the proposal for a separate euro area budget is one of these. the new president should consider not making it a burden on the resources of non-euro countries. finally, i would ask you not to put new conditions in the way of countries wishing to adopt the euro, because it would be unfair to change the conditions constantly.
madam president, the president of the european central bank is also a caretaker of the euro, as mr draghi made clear in 2012. the euro is, along with the common market, the most important asset that the european union has ever created. the euro is not only an obligation and a constraint on national economic policy but also ‘an exorbitant privilege’, to paraphrase the term used in relation to the us dollar. it is the second global currency. eurozone member states do not need to worry about a liquidity shortage in time of crisis and they do not need to waste national resources to accumulate international currency reserves, to name just two of the benefits. the policymakers have to be reminded of this and it has to be preached to the general public. i’m sure that christine lagarde’s splendid communication skills can be fully utilised, including in relations with the non-euro countries like poland. i wish her luck in her job and declare my full support for her.
mr. chairman, please! this is my inaugural address to this room, and i'm very happy to have this important topic, because i was a victim of the fancy bears myself. i got the same emails that mr. podesta got in the united states, and we know how that affected the campaign there. we've already had examples of outside interference in politics in france, in the uk, in italy. in my country too, a book by a renowned journalist, mr grzegorz rzeczkowski, entitled "a foreign alphabet" has recently been published, and i would like to appeal from this place that our prosecutor's office in poland should take seriously these very disturbing reports of foreign interference in polish politics. what do you want me to do? first of all, what not to do? i think that politicizing the media, which should be public, and partisanising them, is a way of destroying trust and making it easier for those who want to influence elections illegally to act. we should increase the budget for fighting disinformation, we should build opportunities for traditional media, and therefore support the creative europe programme, and finally we should regulate the activity of social media.
in writing. in today's debate, we are talking about the importance of maintaining and defending the sovereignty of our countries, including the right to free elections that we have in our countries. manipulating public opinion is a huge threat to the democratic process. we debate whether a number of non-eu countries influenced the outcome of the election or public opinion. there are fears of such actions, but we are not sure, no one has been proven. on the other hand, we know of examples of people who have repeatedly and actively participated in the last election campaign, but who, because of their office, should never have done so. it is none other than the vice-president of the european commission, mr frans timmermans, who was active in poland in the conventions of the elected parties a few days before the european elections in may. and that's none other than the vice-president of the european commission, the commissioner for better regulation, the rule of law and the charter of fundamental rights. the president of the european council, mr donald tusk, also took part in the election campaign, also actively joining the citizens' coalition campaign. he is another person who, by virtue of his office, should be apolitical and represent all eu citizens, not promote a select few. it is therefore important to combat the disguised activities of third countries, but it is equally important - if not more important - to maintain the proper standards within our own borders.
madam president, commissioner, there are two ways of approaching this question. the first is, of course, emotion and denunciation. how can we not mourn the destruction of this magnificent forest and the disappearance of the people who live there? how can we not denounce bolsonaro, a climate-skeptic who wants to sell his country and the amazon to agribusiness, whose government like the previous one is corrupted by jbs, the world leader in beef, and who is xenophobic, homophobic, sexist? then there is another way of approaching the issue, which does not remove emotion or denunciation: it is to see what our responsibility is in these forest fires that have nothing conjunctural. commissioner, you have achieved the feat of not saying 'mercosur' or 'common agricultural policy'. i have heard representatives of the epp, renew and even the social democrats say that it would be good to respect the mercosur agreement. but if you do not see that the mercosur agreement that brazil has signed because it is going to export soybeans and beef is structurally destructive of the amazon and structurally climate-destroying, if you do not see that the proposal for the common agricultural policy, put forward by the commission and supported by you, will increase imports of brazilian soybeans, then you do not see your responsibility, you do not participate in stopping the forest fires, the destruction of the amazon and the people who live there! so let us be serious in this parliament!
madam president, i would like to thank you. the amazon is on fire. these are the lungs of the world that determine whether or not we're going to survive the climate. if we continue to deforest at this rate, we will have a warming effect that cannot be stopped. and that will be catastrophic for biodiversity. president bolsonaro of brazil is complicit in this situation. he's not just pursuing a policy that is dangerous to women's rights activists, lgbtq people, indigenous people and poor brazilians. his policies are a danger to the whole world his deforestation policies. it is not surprising, therefore, that many have reacted and are demanding action. i agree with the previous speaker. we need to act now. there are several ways of doing this, but one obvious way of doing this is of course to freeze the negotiations on the mercosur agreement. freeze it and write that the paris agreement must be respected, that it must be binding and that the deforestation of the amazon must stop. it's going to be binding. a week of action by young people is about to begin. they're asking us to do everything in our power. well, we're going to do it anyway.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans are partly responsible for the fires in the amazon and the rest of the world. our consumption of meat, palm oil, the import of intensive animal feedingstuffs, especially soya and maize, which are largely genetically modified, all contribute to putting a great deal of pressure on forests in third countries and accelerating deforestation. the number one priority must therefore be to reduce the footprint of the european union's consumption that has a direct impact on deforestation, and it is not rhetorical to recall that there are 820 million people in the world who do not have enough food to eat, and vice versa, until recently, one billion people were overweight. today, the latest statistics tell us that there are two billion overweight people and four million who die from overfeeding. the world produces too much, too much unsustainable and unhealthy food, food that is often wasted, junk food that puts people and the planet at risk. the new commission will have to tackle these problems at their root, in the cap and in the trade policy of the european union, if we are to make a serious commitment to achieving the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda, and if we are to make a real commitment to reducing poverty, hunger, inequalities and indiscriminate exploitation of resources in the world.
madam president! the amazon, the lungs of the world and the reservoir of biodiversity, is being cut down, ravaged by fires. most of them are deliberately plowed to make room for crops, including fodder. this situation has to change. but so far, we haven't been able to influence the countries where deforestation is happening. the trade agreement with the mercosur countries, which can be used to enforce compliance with the paris agreement and stop deforestation in the amazon, was already mentioned today. for the agreement to be adopted and to have the desired effect, the mercosur countries must not only meet the climate and sustainable development criteria, but also implement the european equivalent of animal welfare and food safety criteria that a french, german or polish farmer must meet. but this deal isn't the only form of pressure we have. we know that european banks are investing millions of euros in south american non-sustainable crops, leading to deforestation of the amazon for soybean production. without lessons learned in our own backyard, the negotiations with the mercosur countries will not be effective. we must stop the fires in the amazon, but we cannot allow this to happen at the cost of allowing unfair competition in agriculture to enter europe and putting the health of europeans at risk by allowing food of unverifiable quality to be marketed.
mr. chairman, you can't play innocent. we have been talking about deforestation here since 2017, when i presented my report on the subject and this parliament adopted it. we've known for over a year that president bolsonaro means the destruction of the rainforests. we also know that the european union is part of the problem of deforestation, particularly through its foreign trade policy. so, pretending to be shocked is really not appropriate. it is appropriate to ask why we have waited so long for the commission's action plan against deforestation and why there is no resolution for today's debate. we're awkwardly pretending to care, but that's all. we must face the facts clearly: we are witnessing the destruction of forests and rainforests, without which there is no life. and this is not notre dame, where broken promises can spell doom. we're going to end the rumors, we're going to end deforestation, we're going to end the devastating fires. and be part of the solution.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think we all agree that rain forests are a vital resource for the planet. this debate has reiterated that the ongoing fires in the amazon basin are deeply worrying to all of us, all the more so against the backdrop of devastating fires raging in other parts of the world. many have said – and i totally agree – that we have to tackle and we have to be concerned about all forest fires everywhere, whether it’s in angola, siberia, the arctic, the subarctic region, central africa, europe, southeast asia or south america. all these fires once more underline the sense of urgency required in joining our forces to fight climate change. forests are indispensable and are vital to our efforts to fight climate change. protecting forests is a significant part of our and everybody’s responsibility to meet the commitments under the paris agreement. most of the speakers spoke about the eu—mercosur trade agreement. in the trade and sustainable development chapter of the eu—mercosur trade agreement, both the eu and the mercosur countries, including brazil, accepted an explicit commitment to effectively implement the paris agreement. brazil’s nationally determined contribution under the paris agreement includes commitments on deforestation and reforestation. these are reinforced by private—sector initiatives, such as the soy moratorium or commitments by brazilian meatpackers not to source meat from farms in recently deforested areas. in addition to provisions to promote sustainable trade and the trade agreement itself, let me note that the trade deal is part of an overall association agreement covering dialogue on human rights and cooperation in many fields, including the environment and climate change. it will provide the eu and, indeed, the european parliament with additional instruments for dialogue and cooperation and help bring our markets and citizens closer together. many are concerned that we have to make certain that the commitments are there and that the commitments are honoured. the eu—mercosur agreement includes a comprehensive trade and sustainable development chapter containing legally binding commitments on environmental protection, as well as climate change, including a commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement. the commission has a range of tools and mechanisms available to ensure that these commitments are respected. where a party fails to comply with a commitment, we can resort to the dispute settlement mechanism, tailored to the specifics of labour and environment. we trust and expect, but above all, we will ensure that brazil will live up to its own commitments in the framework of the paris agreement, which includes a pledge by brazil to reduce by 2025 its net greenhouse gas emissions by 37% compared to 2005 levels, and an action plan to stop illegal deforestation, including in the brazilian amazon. on our part, we also committed a pledge by the eu to reduce our domestic emissions by at least 40% by 2030. some meps commented that we should also tackle the demand side regarding the marketing of products associated with deforestation. a legislative framework preventing products associated with deforestation to reach the eu market is key. it is essential. the eu already has domestic regulations banning, for example, the sale of illegally harvested timber. the main objective of the regulation is to reduce illegal deforestation and give consumers better assurances about the products that they buy. when it comes to any future eu domestic measures relating to products associated with deforestation, let me refer to our recent communication on deforestation where we have announced a number of other measures in this regard. those measures include reinforcing standards and certification schemes to identify and to promote deforestation-free commodities, exploring possible additional demand—side regulatory and non-regulatory measures to increase supply—chain transparency and to minimise the risk of importing products associated with deforestation and forest degradation, also, promoting forest-relevant considerations and activities to foster corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct and, finally, establishing a stakeholder platform on deforestation allowing for discussions between government officials, ngo businesses, retailers, and so on. to conclude, let me remind everyone that the final legal texts of the association agreement and its trade aspect will be submitted to the eu member states and to the european parliament for approval.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude i wish to thank you for this very useful debate on a pressing issue that concerns us all. we all share the view that we need to do our utmost to protect our forests. we need to improve the eu’s action on this matter and continue working towards honouring our international commitments. many of you referred to the mercosur trade agreement. the trade agreement with mercosur contains a robust trade and sustainable development chapter which lives up to the highest standards comparable to those in other modern agreements. the basic premise is that increased trade should not come at the expense of the environment or labour conditions; on the contrary, it should promote sustainable development. the mercosur agreement contains a specific article on climate change committing the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement. there are also commitments on fighting deforestation. however, just like here in parliament, discussions in the council on the eu-mercosur agreement are still in an early phase. it is clear that sufficient time will be needed for a comprehensive examination of the negotiated agreement. it will be important for both of our institutions to have an honest debate on the agreement, based on facts. i would also like to note that open, ambitious and rules-based trade policy which is value-based, sustainable and inclusive is a priority for the finnish presidency. many of you also referred to the urgency of climate action. the time to act on climate change is now, not later. we believe that the eu can have an effect on others by setting an example. this is why it is crucial to agree on an ambitious target of climate neutrality in the european union by 2050 as soon as possible. we must preserve the amazon rainforest for the generations to come. huge damage has been done so far, which i deplore, but we need to focus on preventing further deterioration. we need to protect our forests in the amazon and elsewhere because we need to protect our lives. deforestation is a global challenge with many complicated aspects. for that reason cooperation within the council configuration is an elementary part of successful work. the cooperation between the eu institutions is even more important and for that reason, we are all here today. thank you very much once again for your active participation and for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. governments that encourage the massive clearing and burning of rain forests must also consider the consequences. public opinion in favour of free trade with these countries may change. the fate of the amazon rain forest affects not only brazil but the entire world. that is why i support drawing attention to the problem and putting pressure on the brazilian authorities.
in writing. we express our full solidarity with the people of brazil and with the peoples of the other countries affected by the great fires in the amazon, in particular with the populations inhabiting the amazon forest. these fires are a dramatic example of what can happen when, as in capitalist society, the profit motive overrides basic environmental and social concerns. the destruction of the amazon did not begin just now. multinational corporations and other economic groups have long been vying for the resources of the amazon. this dispute finds expression in the economic, political and geostrategic spheres, and involves the appropriation of land, raw materials and resources extracted from nature. these objectives of appropriation and plunder of resources are found in the brazilian government, led by bolsonaro, ultra-liberal programs that give free rein and enhance the wealth of big capital and agribusiness economic groups, which aim to exploit the great natural riches of the amazon. the situation in the amazon region warrants international cooperation and aid to deal more effectively and more quickly with the disaster. but this does not legitimise those who have pretensions to favour plans and processes of economic domination and thus ways of transferring costs to the peoples of the world of environmental degradation, erasing the responsibilities of the capitalist mode of production.
in writing. the amazon rainforest is being destroyed on an unprecedented scale, with fires up 76% from last year. record-breaking fires, increasingly set by arsonists, the pollution of rivers by toxic waste from illegal mining, and the encroachment of indigenous peoples on their lands for mineral resources are destroying one of the world's largest tropical forests. it is important to continue and increase work to conserve rainforests, to ensure that their inhabitants and animals are protected and that natural resources are used wisely and not predatory. serious steps must be taken to preserve the amazon and to put out the fires that are currently burning there. the eu must also play its part.
in writing. we are alarmed by the state and recent spread of fires in the two main lungs of the earth. on the one hand, the amazon - the earth's first lung - has suffered a devastating wave of fires never seen before. these outbreaks have increased by 83% compared to the same period in 2018. the main cause? deforestation, which has also gained a strong impetus under the current government. on the other hand, the second lung of the earth, the forests of the congo basin, which recorded a total of 10 000 fires on the same dates. these two burning continents are a sanctuary for biodiversity and an essential tool in the fight against climate change. if the loss of tropical tree cover continues, it will be impossible to keep warming below 2 degrees celsius. we are concerned that governments such as brazil's have turned forest management policy on its head and undo all the progress the country had seen in recent years. political irresponsibility and poor forest management pose a great threat to our ecosystems and to our very survival.
we're having a debate after the meeting about the situation in the amazon. this is the area known as the lungs of the world (it produces 20% of the world's oxygen) and is crucial for tackling climate change. in contrast, large-scale fires that occur there have the potential to release large amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. i would like to address this question from the point of view of trade relations between the european union and the mercosur countries, namely brazil. it is certainly good that the proposed eu-mercosur agreement includes measures to combat climate change. on the other hand, we have seen the brazilian government and the president take a relatively lax approach to a disaster of this magnitude. it is also worrying that under the current president of brazil, deforestation in the amazon has increased by 88%, despite the fires. the draft agreement with mercosur aims to develop common trade relations. clearly, brazilian producers need a marketplace. on the other hand, our farmers are rightly concerned about brazilian production, which is massive and uses unacceptable methods. if this production is to be encouraged at the cost of the destruction of the amazon rainforest, that would be absolutely unacceptable. we must look at the agreement with mercosur through this lens and demand clear guarantees that its implementation will not mean the destruction of the lungs of the world and the reduction of the competitiveness of our farmers.
in writing. debates must finally be followed by action! we in the green group very much regret that the european parliament has not adopted a resolution on the forest fires in the amazon. the scale of the environmental disaster is clear: two weeks ago, mapu huni kuin from the brazilian state of acre warned us in the european parliament: 'the fires are destroying our livelihoods and our homes. we need the forest, it gives us freedom and our identity. at the political level, we need clear messages to bolsonaro and a multilateral solution in south america to stop the forest fires permanently!
in writing. the massive fires in the amazon region that have been raging for weeks have rightly raised great international concern. the fires do not appear to have been started accidentally, but are partly set on purpose to clear the land. forests are vital to us for many reasons. they are vital for biodiversity, climate protection and economic and social well-being. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we may have better tools for this in the future if the trade agreement between the european union and the mercosur region, which was reached in the summer in the form of a preliminary political agreement, can be successfully implemented. i therefore believe that the agreement should not be rejected, even though the brazilian authorities' actions have been, in the face of amazon's return, downright appallingly reckless. it is important to note that all new eu trade agreements, including mercosur, now include figures on sustainable development. it gives us the backbone to demand from our trading partners the maintenance of international agreements, cooperation and dialogue, including on environmental protection. it is very important, when the mercosur agreement is being discussed and worked on in the coming winter, to ensure that these objectives, which are enshrined in the agreement, are properly monitored and that they are also implemented in practice.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the security situation in burkina faso (2019/2812 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, over the past months we have seen a continued and dramatic deterioration of the security situation in burkina faso. i would like to start by expressing our solidarity with the people of burkina. more than 200 people have been killed so far in 2019, including 60 victims in the last month. this insecurity climate puts more pressure on already overstretched social services. the number of internally displaced persons is now reaching 300 000 people, posing a serious challenge to the delivery of food, health or sanitation services, but also in terms of social cohesion. that jihadist groups are now targeting both security forces and civilians, with a clear strategy to force local antagonism and create a circle of vengeance between different communities. they are trying to incite a war of religion in a country that has a long history of peaceful coexistence between faiths and communities. the european union is today closer than ever to the people of burkina faso. the country is currently at the heart of our action in the sahel. in the last seven years we have mobilised more than eur 1 billion for development programmes in burkina. high representative mogherini was in ouagadougou over the summer, on the occasion of the fifth annual ministerial meeting between the eu and the g5 sahel. during the meeting, she announced an extra eur 138 million in support of the joint military force of the g5 sahel, which has an important role in fighting terrorism and organised crime across the region. our military and civilian missions in the sahel are also working more and more across the region, alongside france’s operation barkhane. coordination between security and development policies is one of the essential challenges, and this was one of the main messages that the high representative delivered during her visit. we are glad that the g5 countries have committed to adopting an integrated, strategic framework precisely to synchronise their efforts on security and on development and to identify priority regions for their actions. the government of burkina has also extended the emergency plan for the sahel to its eastern regions, which is a positive development. during her visit, ms mogherini called for urgent progress on security-sector reform. the fight against terrorism can only bear fruit if security forces respect the rule of law and human rights. this is the only way to build trust between state authorities and all sectors of the population. the recent national dialogue is an important building block for national cohesion. it is crucial that all ethnic communities in burkina feel that they are part of a common national family. as the terrorists incite hatred and inter-ethnic tensions, the state should push in the opposite direction and invest in a shared sense of belonging for all its citizens. security is vital but it is not the only answer to the challenges that the country is facing. linking political, security and development issues will be more and more essential. let me just mention that during her trip to burkina, the high representative also visited an eu-funded school, because education is the foundation of any country’s strength. international coordination is also crucial and the eu is willing to engage even more with the whole region. this is the reason why we took the opportunity of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) extraordinary summit on terrorism in ouagadougou last saturday to discuss with countries of a wider region how they can contribute more to counteract terrorism and how we can coordinate our respective actions. since 2015, a peaceful country like burkina faso has had to face unprecedented violence. we europeans have stepped up our support to stop this escalation, to stabilise a crucial region for our own security and to help the people of the sahel take their future into their hands. we will continue to be a strong partner for burkina and for its people.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the islamic state, a terrorist organization of mass murder, is pursuing a new strategy after its retreat in the middle east. let's speak clearly and clearly. today, the caliphate is spreading its wings in the insecure sahel region, and burkina faso is seen as a bridgehead in this process. in mali, niger, chad and the neighbouring region of burkina faso, religious and ethnic conflicts have left 1.2 million people in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. in burkina faso, islamist terrorist attacks have claimed nearly 500 lives since 2015. these have included city centers, military buildings, embassies, and educational institutions. nearly 2,000, i repeat, 2,000 schools had to be closed, which caused 300,000 students to drop out of school. in 2019, there was a dramatic increase in attacks specifically of a religious nature. christian communities are particularly at risk. in february, terrorists shot dead spanish salesian monk césar fernández. in total, 57 christians have been killed this year in attacks specifically targeting churches. europe must help to preserve, as we have heard before, the ethnic and religious diversity of the region. to do that, we need to see that churches have a critical social and security role. i think it is essential that the european institutions put an end to the extreme neutrality in the name of which we systematically, systematically, here together, ignore attacks on sects. we need to understand that the persecution of religious communities, including the large number of christian denominations, is resulting in the breakdown of the social fabric and the increase of emigration. after all, without security, there is no sowing, there is no harvest, and that's why people migrate. i know that's an oversimplification, but that's the way it is.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, since 2015, as you said, extremist groups have proliferated in burkina faso, with attacks becoming more numerous and more violent. this sahel region is particularly vulnerable in terms of security, and the g5 sahel is obviously useful in fighting these armed groups. but, as president kaboré said, burkina faso is also vulnerable because of its poverty. the fight against terrorism is not limited to military response alone, but requires robust strategies which are development strategies. it is in this context that burkina faso has taken measures to protect production sectors, such as the production of food oil and sugar, which, when produced by burkinabe, produce jobs and are cheaper for burkinabe. so how consistent is the eu in promoting agreements like the free trade agreement with west africa, which destroys local jobs and generates poverty for local people, and then sending military contingents to fight boko haram? would it not be smarter, more coherent, more structural to ensure partnerships that protect local economies rather than undermine them? let us not forget that agriculture accounts for 82% of the working population in burkina faso. it is with free trade agreements that we are destroying burkina faso's agriculture and therefore 82% of the working population. i think it is time for the european union to review the economic partnerships it has with africa, so that we can really have a development policy on the substance and not just on the protection of security and military action.
mr president, the reports coming from burkina faso are extremely worrying. the humanitarian and security situation in this country and in neighbouring countries is deteriorating profoundly. we are witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with 1.5 million people in a vulnerable situation and in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. thousands have been displaced and more than 300,000 children are out of school as schools have been closed for safety reasons. terrorist attacks have killed hundreds in recent months. the government has tried to contain islamist terrorist groups in the north and east of the country, on the borders with mali and niger, in order to prevent their action from spreading to the rest of the country, but the action has been criticized for the uncoordinated and ineffective way it has been carried out. the fight against terrorist networks, which spread chaos and harass civilian targets across borders and indiscriminately, must involve the governments of the countries affected, but it does not require clear solidarity from the international community. it is crucial that the government of burkina faso step up counter-terrorism measures and that the european union, as it has done, continue to stand firm in its support for peace and security.
mr president, nearly 300 000 displaced people, 2 000 schools closed, christians or teachers whose only crime is to teach in french targeted. this is the tragic reality of burkina faso, which is being ravaged by islamist terrorism, with the risk of famine. whose fault is it? the sacrifice last may of cédric de pierrepont and alain bertoncello is a painful reminder of france's commitment to the fight against terrorism since 2013. but, as a summit was held on saturday in ouagadougou, it is urgent that the pledges of help, especially from the brussels conference of 2018, are finally honored at the european and global level and meet the needs of the local armies in equipment and training. on the economic front, i welcome the ambitious project to electrify the region with solar energy. energy and road infrastructure, support for pastoralism, the economic challenges in burkina faso and the sahel are immense. the way we respond to these challenges will determine a great deal of our future security and migration.
mr president, minister, i have to go. burkina faso has been the scene of increasingly frequent and bloody attacks - mainly by jihadists - on clerics, especially christians, but also muslims, for the past four years. half of its 20 million inhabitants live below the poverty line and cannot spend more than the equivalent of one dollar on their own living. thanks to the polish government's help, in 2018 alone, we felt the need to reach directly the poorest and those who suffered from jihadist activities with humanitarian aid we built over sixty social housing units for the poorest families living in conditions of extreme poverty. we believe that the direction, alongside the actions you have outlined, the right actions, is even greater humanitarian aid on the ground for these people. and these efforts of the european union should, in my view, be increased by those countries which are helping directly on the ground. and thank you for the debate today. it is extremely important in terms of the danger and the conditions in which people live in burkina faso.
madam president, i’d like to start by congratulating mr barnier for the professional way in which he has conducted these negotiations. the authors of brexit said that they would be cutting themselves off from a corpse. we’ve proven to be a very lively corpse. well done! it looks to me like a deal is within reach. the point at which british red lines and our red lines are coinciding is the wish for no hard border in ireland, and therefore the solution is for there to be a northern ireland-only backstop by whatever name. i understand that we would be willing to go along with that, so a deal depends on whether or not the british political process can accede to that. i hope it does. the brexiteers, the english nationalists, cheer for a no-deal brexit. your own government says it will be a disaster. i only have one statement for mr farage and his accomplices: if you get your way, and the british government proves to be correct in its assessment of a no deal brexit, don’t blame us for the consequences. i support the motion.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. more than nine million people die of cancer every year. each european country, depending on its wealth, spends a few billion euros, or tens of billions, to fight this disease. so, can we say that we have won against the greatest killer of the 21st century? i certainly don't. is there anything more we can do? i certainly did. as part of european solidarity, let us join forces to create a european plan for effective cancer treatment. let us create a european strategy for cancer prevention and a european strategy for early detection of cancer. let's give cancer research a new lease of life. let's create a european partnership programme based on the cooperation of academic centres and specialist hospitals. let's work together to share best practices and clinical trial experience. let's give the same chance to the patient in eastern and western europe. tumors have no borders and no nationality. today i ask you, fellow members of parliament, to decide on a bipartisan basis to set up a special committee to fight cancer. it's up to us, and us alone. the chairman of the political groups, i am addressing this request to you. you have the opportunity to do so under rule 207 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. finally, i am sure that cancer patients can count on us and that we, the members of the european parliament, will not let them down.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the world health organization warns that cancer is the second leading cause of death worldwide, and that lung and breast cancer are particularly deadly. last year, cancer caused -- we've already talked about this today -- 9.6 million deaths worldwide, which means that one in six deaths is caused by cancer. despite the fact that the european union, including the european parliament, has taken a number of measures to combat cancer in the member states, we are still facing a lack of financial and logistical resources. and especially now that ten member states of the european union, including my own country, are participating in the european week for the prevention of head and neck cancer, i would like to call on the european council and the european commission to strengthen the negotiating position of the member states to guarantee the availability of affordable medicines throughout the european union, including in particular cancer medicines. as a member of the european parliament and a medical doctor by training, i believe that patients in the european union should have equal access to the latest therapies, regardless of where they were born, because when faced with a disease, we can all become patients whose challenge is to fight the disease.
madam president! we are celebrating european head and neck cancer prevention week, so we are timely in addressing a problem that affects millions of people in europe. parliament should support the efforts of all member states to ensure that every community citizen has equal access to the most advanced cancer treatments. there should never be a shortage of funds for specialized treatment, as well as prevention. in poland, a national oncology strategy has been implemented, which includes a number of measures, including early detection and diagnosis, treatment of cancer. the exchange of experience at doctor and researcher level, gained through this and other member states' programmes, should be actively encouraged by the european institutions. together, let us ensure that when someone learns of their illness, they do not feel condemned but have the chance to receive prompt and professional help in both the richest and poorest regions of the union. let us work together to provide the european union member states with tools to help improve the quality of their national cancer programmes and make them more effective. we are aware that life has the same value in all the countries of our community and that we should all take care of it.
in writing. the fight against cancer must be a priority for the new commission. to date, cancer is still the second leading cause of death in the world after cardiovascular disease, but the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) - the who's cancer research agency - estimates that in the coming years cancer will become the leading cause of death in the world. this trend is also evident in europe, where life expectancy is rising. advances in science have made possible new treatments and cures, and thanks to the proliferation of prevention campaigns, we are getting better and better results, especially in pediatrics: today, we manage to treat one out of every two patients. but that is not enough: we must and can do more! the fight against cancer is a common scourge for all european citizens, against which we must unite our forces and our resources. financial support is needed for research programmes to identify the causes of the disease in its various forms and investment is also needed in prevention, with the aim of reducing the number of people who fall ill, providing ever more effective care and improving the quality of life of those who suffer from the disease.
in writing. every year in the european union, 1.5 million of our citizens die of cancer, and in many eu countries cancer has become the number one cause of death. i think we've all been confronted with this terrible disease, if not directly, then with our loved ones. despite the efforts made so far, including at european level, the statistics are increasingly alarming, so there is no doubt that we need to do more and act more effectively. i therefore believe that the fight against cancer should become one of the european commission's priorities, and in the fight against cancer we need to take action on many fronts simultaneously - both in terms of increasing prevention, early detection, better diagnosis and treatment. it is also unacceptable that the chances of recovery are now dependent on the place of residence western european citizens and those from large urban centres are about 30% more likely to be cured than those from eastern europe or rural regions. i believe that the launch of the european master plan against cancer will help us to break these negative trends and make cancer a fully curable disease.
in writing. the statistics on cancer morbidity and mortality in europe are alarming. every year, two million cities are wiped off the face of the earth by cancer. therefore, coordinated action and cooperation between member states is needed to develop a common european plan to combat cancer. studies show that 30 to 50 percent of all cancers are preventable. this is why it is so important to implement a broad eu policy aimed primarily at raising public awareness, reducing exposure to cancer risk factors, promoting preventive research and ensuring people have access to the information and support they need to lead healthy lifestyles. another issue is to close the gap between member states in terms of access to modern medicines. there are many problems, for example, the reimbursement of old drugs means that there is no money for new ones. moreover, statistics show that expenditure by some member states on cancer research and drugs remains very low. however, the estimated loss of premature death from cancer in just one year is incomparably higher. this means that in many cases, the cost of innovative cancer drugs is only one quarter of the amount the economy loses each year as a result of premature deaths of cancer patients. these examples show that europe urgently needs an effective plan to scale up the fight against cancer in the short term.
in writing. the future framework programme for research and innovation must translate into concrete deeds the major objective of the health field, namely the fight against cancer and, in particular, against paediatric cancer. in europe, paediatric cancer is the leading cause of infant mortality, with more than 35 000 new cases and more than 6 000 deaths per year. the european parliament must take concrete steps to combat paediatric cancer by adopting legislative changes to encourage faster and more efficient discovery and production of innovative medicines accessible to patients and by allocating considerable financial resources to support paediatric cancer research. the fight against this disease cannot be won without tackling the inequitable access of patients to the best possible treatment and medical expertise or without focusing on supporting cross-border research. today we have about half a million child cancer survivors, and that number can grow with the involvement, without hesitation, of the european parliament.
in writing. one in four poles dies of cancer. "poland is a sick country", warns the warsaw regional chamber of doctors. cancer is a challenge for all european societies. however, some countries are lagging behind the european average. after świętokrzyskie, my constituency has the highest incidence of cancer in lower silesia. the projected increase in cases is as high as 10%. the cancer cure rate in poland is 45%, which is below the eu average. cancer treatment in poland is in a state of collapse. i'm watching it closely because i'm fighting breast cancer. the experts stress that improvements are needed at every stage of patient care: prevention, diagnosis at the level of primary care physicians, availability of tests, outpatient care during treatment, and availability of appropriate medicines. prevention through healthy lifestyle education is also important. poland needs support in terms of educating doctors, expanding the range of tests, building a network of treatment facilities across the country so that as many patients as possible can receive treatment at home without leaving work and family entirely. i am pleased to hear from ursula von der leyen about the european plan to fight cancer. the ep should support programmes to increase funding for cancer and new regulations to support patients at every stage of treatment.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. budgetary discussions are always difficult, but they should always be based on reality. here in the european parliament, we are responsible for a good budget to the people of europe and to our constituents. the community's solution to the problems of europe is a noble and beautiful task, and our approach must therefore be very real in this respect. if the european union's documents say that we must take care of agriculture, we cannot accept the council's proposal to reduce commitments and payments under the second heading, 'sustainable growth and natural resources'. we can't just do this. good food produced in producer groups deserves support. the ecr has reported such an amendment. our grandchildren can't eat plastic, they have to eat natural, healthy food. if we want to feel safe in railway stations, airports and the underground, we must protect the borders of the european union, which is why the ecr has tabled an amendment to strengthen frontex and europol. the council is cutting funding for horizon 2020 by €413 million. universities and researchers need to have money for research and safe technologies to educate and tackle unemployment, including youth unemployment. let us be realistic, let us solve real problems, let us propose very rational solutions which concern the european union, which concern the people of the community, and let us face these problems together.
madam president! this debate proves why we need this resolution. my colleagues on the far left say the red army defeated hitler, and it's true. but they don't want to remember that the soviet union was an ally of fascist germany for two years, and they don't want to remember that the communist regimes are responsible for the deaths of about a hundred million of their own citizens. a colleague from the french far right says that modern russia has cut itself off from the legacy of the soviet union. unfortunately, that's not true. in the last few days we have had official statements from the russian authorities, ministries, embassies denying the facts of the pact with hitler and the invasion of poland. so we need this day to remember. and i would like to agree with my predecessor, minister anna fotyg, that a very good patron for such a day would be witold pilecki, a polish officer who volunteered to go to auschwitz. think about it. he would have been a very good patron for such a day, because instead of being rewarded for his unparalleled heroism, he was murdered by the communist authorities in a sham trial. so, madam president, i would like to support this resolution.
madam president, 80 years ago, two dark-hearted dictators signed the documentary beginning of world war ii and began to divide the villainous europe. though they had their ideological differences, the national socialist and communist regimes were two faces of the same evil - totalitarianism. in the 20th century, this evil brought untold suffering, destruction and millions of innocent victims to our continent. towards the end of the second world war, it brought down one of the regimes, but the other was left by the world's democracies to enslave for decades half of europe. we owe it to the younger generations to pass on the memory of the horrors our continent has gone through. i want to congratulate the bulgarian government and the ministry of education for adopting new curricula in bulgaria that finally reflect the events of the 20th century objectively. i call on the commission to provide adequate funding for projects relating to the preservation of the memory of the victims of all totalitarian regimes and the study of archives. let us preserve the memory and never again allow national socialism, communism, fascism or any other totalitarian ideology to poison the hearts and souls of europeans. and to my colleague from spain, who is rightly concerned that there are street names of dictators in her country. but did you know that in bulgaria almost every second name is of a dictator or one of their supporters, who have led to hundreds, tens of thousands of victims. let us together honor the memory of all, not just the individual victims of communism, the victims of national socialism, the victims of fascism, all the victims of communism. you forget that very often -- both from the far left and the far right.
thank you, chairman. i agree that it's important to remember the past so that we can improve the future. but more importantly, we must not repeat those mistakes in the present, because by doing so, we repeat our history. none of these and similar resolutions, which have been adopted by the european parliament in very large numbers, can be of any real use if we at the same time allow the acts which they condemn, namely the suppression of democracy, the disregard for the rule of law, the denial of rights to minorities and others, autocracy, nationalism. in slovene, we have a saying: "sweep before your threshold". warning others of their mistakes is only meaningful and effective if we do not make the same mistakes ourselves. the european union has long been more than a case of lapses or ignorant mistakes: no, non-compliance with agreed rules is clearly becoming an acceptable practice that goes unpunished. i therefore expect the new president of the european commission and ourselves to have a thorough debate in the october hearings on the content, the appointments and the holders of the posts, because our work and the future of our citizens will depend on this.
madam president, i strongly believe that the european union is a project of the future. it brings democratic european nations together. however, while looking into the future, we need to draw comprehensive conclusions from our common past. our past was often about wars, destruction, totalitarianism and atrocities which destroyed lives irreversibly. post—war reconciliation enabled us to achieve stability, confidence and cooperation. but let’s be sincere. the process is not over yet. such examples as the recent statement by russian senior official, sergei ivanov, denying soviet occupation of the baltic states is a great reminder of the surviving approach of denial and unacceptable attempts to rewrite history. grounds for the future cooperation of european nations are laid today in the history classes of our schools and cross—border cooperation initiatives. that’s why i am calling for greater investment in european remembrance based on mutual understanding, studying, teaching our joint history and nurturing our european way of life.
madam president! we are now 80 years into the second world war, when poland was attacked by germany and the soviet union, and what many people do not want to remember, betrayed by the countries with which it had a treaty. the poles, for being honorable and not collaborating with hitler, like many countries, suffered terrible losses. cities destroyed, the capital burned, the slaughter of the will, which i will remind you of many times in this house. about 50% of the cultural property was destroyed and looted. we have destroyed 75% of our railroad resources, 65% of our energy resources, 70% of our chemical, printing and other industries. the polish nation's property losses amounted to almost 38% of the 1939 resources. by comparison, france and the uk had losses of 1%, not nearly 40%. 35% of our doctors, scientists, lawyers, our elite were murdered in katyn, in mednoye. we lost almost 6 million citizens, including 3 million citizens of jewish origin. in return, poland was betrayed and given to the soviet union for a long time. the fate that poland has suffered for behaving honorably will long be a matter of conscience for many who today want to pay attention to poland, especially when it comes to historical conduct.
madam president! i believe that this resolution will be a call to action: 'no more molotov-ribbentrop pacts, no more katyn, no more death camps, no more the extermination of millions of people! in a word, no more war! and that's what we should have at heart, and that's what we should have at heart today in this debate: respect, partnership and understanding. my country is now in the european union, but then it was the bloody victim of two of the most brutal totalitarian regimes in the history of the world. countries like poland are still reeling from the effects of war and half a century of soviet domination. we haven't reformed everything yet, but unfortunately, our attempts aren't always accepted. so today, values that were once lacking have created unnecessary and dangerous conflicts. but europe is not just the union. and today we must say clearly and unequivocally that the armed conflict in ukraine should be our concern. poland hosted children, orphans. in the 21st century, europe has war orphans! this is something that should never happen, and we should talk about it.
madam president! the resolution which i hope we will adopt tomorrow, and which i am co-author of, is of course rooted in history, but we must draw lessons for the future from these dramatic events which have cost the lives of millions. the molotov-ribbentrop pact, which is the symbol of the alliance of two totalitarian systems, must not be forgotten and must be a lesson for the future, because all those who ignore radicalism and nationalism are actually allowing what happened in europe in the 20th century to happen again in the future. you can't let that happen. it's not allowed. that is why i call on everyone to react to the extreme movements that are emerging in some societies (we can see this also in poland, which yesterday celebrated the 80th anniversary of the attack of russian communism, which tried to deprive poles of their freedom and identity) which, by using the symbolism of totalitarian systems, falsifying history, using propaganda, sometimes also by populist politicians, simply, in short, undermine the historical duty of europeans to build a safe europe, free from totalitarianism, free from the dangers that a new pact of egoism and nationalism may represent. we must defend this freedom in europe by responding strongly to radicalism.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. yesterday in poland we celebrated the 80th anniversary of soviet aggression, and ten years ago, on the 70th anniversary of westerplatte, on the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war, the prime minister of the russian federation relativized the reasons for the outbreak of the second world war, referring to the injustice of the treaty of versailles. foreign minister molotov used the term to address poland in russian ypoдливoе детище, which translates to "a bastard child", after the soviet aggression against poland. yesterday, the day before yesterday, we could hear from russian politicians another attempt to relativize history. we talk about europe's past in the context of its future, but that future must be based on truth, and the truth is this: there would be no modern europe if it were not for greek philosophy, roman law and the values of the old and new testaments, namely christianity. john paul ii left us the patron saint of europe, a jewish nun who was murdered in auschwitz-birkenau. at that time the world did not take into account the voice of captain pilecki, did not take into account the voice of jan karski, jan nowak-jezioranski. let us not allow another totalitarianism, not soviet or nazi, to be a totalitarianism of political correctness based on... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. president, thank you very much for your time. it's good to have the best law possible, but it doesn't help if we have people who intend to abuse that law. they have money and lawyers to tell them how to get around the rules. they write their own laws and even influence court proceedings. even here in this parliament, we have discussed the laundering of iranian money in the slovenian bank novi ljubljanski bank before the pana committee of inquiry. 30,000 transactions, a billion euros of laundered money, which was very likely also used for terrorist purposes. and what happened? - what? slovenia has just heard the news of a case where companies closely linked to the mayor of ljubljana, the capital of slovenia, were written off 29 million euros to the detriment of creditors. media reports say that before that, the debtors had hidden the assets safely in malta, and the business was conducted through mailboxes and funds of unknown origin. what good is a law against money and rules about beneficial ownership? we have the legal framework, what we need is a fair system and honest people who will be able to investigate and prosecute such abuses. what can you, commissioner, or the institutions of the european union do when such anomalies occur? they should have the power to act in cases where national authorities fail.
madam president, commissioner jourová, madam representative of the finnish presidency, the fight against corruption and organised crime is of great importance to the european union, and not just in economic terms, because it is an attack on its values. that is why the instrument of criminal law against money laundering and the financing of terrorism was needed. that is why the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has worked very hard and some of its members, myself in particular, have taken part in the work of the committee of inquiry into the panama papers. and the lessons were clear. there is the fifth directive to improve transparency, information exchange, financial intelligence units, preventing the level of involvement of certain third countries and preventing the use of prepayment instruments in the service of corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. but just as important as this legislative commitment is to ensure that it is properly applied and implemented in the member states. we therefore urge the commission, and this is the sense of this debate, to also work hard to ensure that the objective is properly implemented, that it is met within the time limits set by the commission and that, where appropriate, infringement proceedings are brought against non-compliant countries.
madam president, various money laundering scandals in the banking sector, be it danske bank, deutsche bank, ing, pilatus or ablv, have shocked europeans and provided proof of many weaknesses in eu cooperation. let me remind you – let me remind ourselves – that we even needed the us authorities to shore up our own weaknesses. i see the following main problems: national financial intelligence units do not exchange the information needed, member states do not fully implement the necessary legislation and undermine the cooperation required, while many banks do not equally apply eu rules. the problem is real. as was already mentioned, according to europol about one percent of the eu’s gdp is detected as being involved in suspect financial activities. the lack of coordinated actions on anti-money laundering (aml) legislation deepens the already fragmented capital markets, which we want to integrate. let me add one more thing: the ball is on the council’s side. any new legislative proposals are meaningless without the will for greater cooperation by the countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the islamic republic of iran is clearly a mass violator of human rights, and women are particularly targeted. crimes punished there that are not crimes in our world. traditionally shia societies prided themselves on being more liberal than some other creeds, but today iran is a country which executes one of the greatest numbers of its citizens, while its justice system doesn’t meet any criteria that we would recognise. medieval mullahs pass harsh sentences on people who, according to our standards, have not committed crimes at all. i think i am right in saying that iran has the death penalty for homosexuality, for example. so i would like to associate myself fully with all the voices that have been heard here in defence of the victims of iran’s unfair justice system, and particularly the women who have been targeted by it. but iran is also a geopolitical challenge today. we have just had attacks on saudi oil facilities, and i don’t think those drones and those missiles were built by some rebels in the mountains. that equipment came from somewhere, and saudi arabia has made a case for it being supplied by the islamic republic of iran. a few weeks ago, we had an attack on tankers anchored in the mouth of the strait of hormuz. it looks to me like the theocratic regime is trying to provoke the united states into an armed attack, and i just hope that neither the united states nor we allow ourselves to be provoked, because we have been provoked before and i don’t like the consequences.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as a former polish ambassador to iran, i have to say that i’m not very happy that we have to discuss today this misbehaviour by the iranian authorities. i would prefer to discuss the contribution of iranian culture to our civilisation. in a time of growing tension in the persian gulf, we expect iran to play a more constructive role in this region. especially, we expect that iran will respect the human rights of iranian citizens and those living in or visiting the country. we also expect iran to stop its policy of arbitrary detentions and immediately and unconditionally to release all the eu dual nationals and human rights defenders, especially women’s rights promoters. finally, we hope that iran will refrain from offensive policies in the region. if iran truly wishes to keep friendly relations with the european union, it needs to change its policy urgently and to stick to international norms and standards.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. there's a polish saying: "a monastery is as long as a priory". the first mention of volunteer firefighters, how citizens, people were able to shout to help each other, as far as poland is concerned, dates back to the middle ages. today's volunteer fire department has been part of the modern history of our country and europe for over a century. this discussion that's going on here shows that sometimes, as another saying goes, we try to throw the baby out with the bath. let us leave in peace those who have for centuries been able to manage their time, too, the time they voluntarily devote to saving health, life, their own earnings or those of their neighbours. i'll use numbers. there are over 16,000 volunteer firefighters in poland, of which over 4,300 units today operate within the national fire and rescue system, that is, they support this professional, state guard. that's over 225,000 firefighters who can participate in direct rescue operations. in total, volunteer fire brigades in poland are almost 700,000 people, including - which is worth emphasizing - 82,000 children and young people, because as mentioned here, also on the example of other countries, these volunteer fire brigades are often in their small homelands, in their municipalities, in the places where they operate, especially in rural areas, such a cultural and social center. the government i had the honor to represent as minister of the interior, which is also responsible for the fire department, the law and justice government in poland, has for the first time embraced the volunteer fire department as a program to modernize the uniformed services. for the first time, we've unified the law in a way that allows us to support the volunteer fire department. in closing, i'd like to say, as is the custom in old poland, to the brides and the brethren of the volunteer fire brigade, god bless you. and may your patron, st. florian, have you always in his care.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i want to thank the commissioner, first of all, for the respect he has shown for volunteer firefighters and for highlighting the diversity of the way volunteer firefighters operate in the european union. i think that over-regulation can only harm volunteers and associations because that's how volunteer firefighters work in poland simply. we should take our discussions inside our own countries. i have the honor to represent poland and i can say that in the last three years, the expenditure has increased significantly. it's these decisions and these acts of support, and it's this emphasis on respect for volunteer firefighters. it's money and a 30% increase... (the president withdrew the speaker's vote because her statement did not comply with the blue card procedure)
in writing. firefighters are a professional group that has consistently enjoyed the greatest, if not the greatest, public trust over the years. this is because, among other things, we can rely on firefighters not only for fires, natural disasters, and catastrophes, but also for many other hazards. a few months ago, right here in strasbourg, the law and justice delegation organized an exhibition that was an illustration of the true european solidarity of the heroic polish firefighters who last year helped to put out the fires in sweden. in my homeland, poland, volunteer firefighters play a huge role, especially in the daily lives of small, local communities. they are often the focus of not only rescue operations but also educational, cultural, and sporting events. this role has been recognised by the government of the republic of poland, which has provided statutory support to volunteer firefighters, which will allow not only the promotion of the principles of first aid but also fire protection and prevention. significant funding is also provided on a regular basis for equipment and training for volunteer firefighters. we know that they have saved lives and health on many occasions, and these values are priceless. their stand therefore deserves the utmost respect and support.
in writing. volunteer firefighters, volunteer rescue services and members of civil protection organisations play a very important role throughout europe and in hungary as well. they volunteer, in addition to their own work, in their free time to protect people's lives, health, material values, basic services for the population, the natural environment, natural values. their work, which requires serious expertise and is often dangerous, requires great determination, and their performance is admirable. the rules governing them, including their working hours, vary across the eu, along with national peculiarities and customs. however, it is important that this should remain the case, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and that member states should be able to decide for themselves the conditions and hours of voluntary work and the length of the rest periods to which they are entitled. i would also like to take this opportunity to highlight that users of the emergency information system (eis), developed in hungary for smartphones and tablets, which is available nationally and free of charge, can obtain up-to-date information about the current situation in their place of residence, the areas affected by their destination, the routes monitored, the counties or even the entire country, about fires, accidents, power outages or warnings and alarms issued by meteorology. using the application, accidents can be prevented and user safety can be increased.
in writing. volunteer firefighters are undoubtedly a very important element in the rescue system of most eu member states. they are composed of trained men and women who, in the course of their duties, are often the first to offer victim assistance to the victims on the spot. they also work closely with other services to ensure the safety of citizens in their area of operation (city, municipality) or neighbouring areas. in the greater poland region, whose citizens have entrusted me with the mandate of mep, there are over 1 800 csr units with nearly 96 000 volunteers. although the majority of the teams are male, the women's teams are also very numerous, with over 2,500 members. it is worth noting that there are also more than 1,000 youth fire brigades in greater poland with 13,400 members, including nearly 5,000 girls. i believe the hard work of volunteer firefighters deserves the highest recognition. i am all the more concerned about the information on the risks that could result from the status of volunteer fire services in the european union. i am firmly convinced that we should do everything we can to ensure that the status of volunteer firefighters in the eu remains intact. moreover, the european commission and the parliament should bear in mind that the effectiveness of volunteer firefighters depends to a large extent on their having specialised firefighting equipment and being adequately funded.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, first of all, i am glad to see, beyond some nuances or differences in tone, the same kind of analysis across the chamber on the fact that this military intervention which turkey has started in the north—east of syria has to be stopped. i see that this unites the chamber, as it has united the european union member states. i am often asked here to make sure that the european union speaks with one voice, and a clear voice and on time. in this case, i believe we have been speaking clearly – extremely clearly – and early. as i said, we first reacted immediately after the news of the telephone call between president trump and president erdoğan came out, during my visit to jordan, and today we have reacted again with the clear and official position of the 28 member states, which i stated just a few hours ago. so: first we are expressing a clear, united position in time for it to be effective at least as a call; and second, we are coordinating with partners – partners in the region, partners beyond the region and other international organisations including, obviously, the united nations. i’m glad that we managed, on the initiative of the european union member states sitting on the security council, to have this point on the agenda there, because it is there that it should be addressed. furthermore – something that has not been raised here so far and i am surprised about that – you might have seen that nato secretary general stoltenberg intends to have contact with one of the nato allies, namely turkey, on this issue. i believe that we need to at least exchange views and opinions with them as well, to try and avoid this military intervention going on. that is, i believe, the urgency at the moment, and i feel the same sense of frustration, urgency and sorrow that many of you have expressed about what is happening today: not only for the civilians who once again are victims, not only for the already internally displaced people in that area who are suffering again, but also for the kurdish forces who have been fighting in the coalition against daesh. i very much agree with what some of you have said: the priority today is to focus on the un-listed terrorist organisations. that means daesh, first and foremost, and definitely not the kurdish forces. turkey has a different reading on this. we have had discussions several times in a very open manner with ankara about this. for the european union, these forces are definitely not to be defined as terrorist organisations. the other thing that we will put in place is a discussion with the foreign ministers, on monday. that is already being prepared now. today we had preparatory meetings and in the coming days these will continue – to see what other actions or reactions we can take from now to then, and to prepare for the european council that will take place just a couple of days later. some of you have raised other issues and elements on which you have asked me to act. the honourable members know very well that it is not in the hands of the high representative to take decisions which ultimately lie, in some cases, with the european parliament itself – on the allocation of funding, for example – and, in some cases, with individual member states – on the export of arms, perhaps – or the council, as with the possibility of introducing targeted measures or sanctions or stopping financial flows. i want to say one thing here though: i believe we have to be careful not to mix things up in a way that can be dangerous. some of you referred to the controversial, but ongoing, support that we are giving to turkey – and not only to turkey but also to other countries that are hosting syrian refugees in the region. i want to name here jordan and lebanon and also iraq and egypt. we are giving this financial support not to those countries but to international organisations, starting with the un agencies that are helping the syrians in those countries. i believe the syrians would be the victims – not twice or three times but four times over – if we had to think about stopping that financial support, because it is thanks to the european union financial support that the syrian refugees are being helped. and the eu support is going to those international organisations in those hosting countries – among them turkey, yes, but the money doesn’t go to turkey. i’ve said that in this chamber many times, but it was in a different parliamentary term so i will repeat it today. that money, the money that supports the syrian refugees in turkey, as well as in other countries of the region, is not going to the turkish authorities. it’s not going to turkey. it’s going to international agencies, it’s going to international ngos, and it’s going to the un agencies for the syrian people. i believe it would be a mistake to make them suffer – on top of what they’re suffering already – for the current situation as well. having said that, you can count on my full determination not only to ensure we do everything we can to protect civilians at this time – and to join forces with those with whom we can join forces to protect civilians – but also, most importantly and beyond that, to stop this military intervention. it is a mistake from so many points of view, and most of you have said that: from a humanitarian perspective; from the perspective of our achievements against daesh; and – i’m surprised none of you mentioned this but i want to insist on it – in terms of the possibility of it seriously undermining the relaunch of the political process under un auspices. two weeks ago we were hosting, as we do every year at the un, the event on syria. there, together with geir pedersen, we were saying that maybe this is the beginning of a new possibility for the political process to start, and it’s the first time in years that there has been a tiny step forward on the possibility of achieving a political solution. now, two weeks later, we have this, which has also put at risk that very limited sign – but a sign nonetheless – of hope for the possibility of starting the political process. obviously, it is also a mistake for all the other reasons that have been mentioned here, including with regard to regional balances. so i really hope that we will manage to join forces with others. i really hope that this issue can be addressed properly in the un security council tomorrow. you can count on me personally and on the european union’s institutions, the council and commission, to do what we can, and obviously i count on you, the parliament, to try and use these hours to apply maximum pressure, and try to stop this intervention that is definitely not going to bring anything good.
in writing. i am following the situation in northern syria very closely. i fear that developments in this complex region could have serious geopolitical consequences. i appreciate the role of the kurds in fighting the isis terrorists. i also understand the enormous burden that turkey has been carrying for many years with the refugee problem and i see the security risks for this country. unfortunately, today we see even more clearly the mistakes and omissions made by the west in the decisive moments of the war in syria, such as the lack of decision on the ban on military flights. we lack a strategy that is consistently implemented. i fear that the creation of a zone to which refugees - who are largely sunni and have been in turkey for many years - will be relocated will further destabilize the region. i am concerned about the possible rise of players like iran and russia, whose actions so far, including on a global scale, have not been conducive to stability.
in writing. in 1974, as a child, i witnessed the turkish invasion of cyprus. but i escaped and i promised not to be silent in the face of such crimes against humanity. today, i hear the same lies, the same dirty propaganda, and the same crimes against humanity committed by the notorious criminal of ankara, as then. the criminal called the invasion of syria "a terrorist operation" and the ethnic cleansing and movement of populations for deliberate settlement allegedly "the creation of a safe zone". the criminal who funded and supported the islamic state, the modern scourge against humanity, is now trying to wipe out the kurds, the civilized world's main ally against the barbarity of the islamic state. as the european union, we can impose an arms embargo, crush erdogan's economy and allocate humanitarian aid funds to the kurdish population instead of turkey. however, interests and dependencies force eu officials to continue to call the criminal a 'strategic partner'. i don't expect much from those who speak publicly of values but invent arguments to make the criminal criminal. today i am addressing the kurdish fighters to assure them that the conscience of europe is not dependent officials. the conscience of europe is with them against the criminal.
in writing. i strongly disapprove of the turkish military operation against the kurds in northeast syria. the european union has worked closely with the syrian democratic forces against the islamic state in recent years. this cooperation, and the sacrifice of the many thousands of kurds who have died in the fighting, has led to real results in the fight against terrorism. unfortunately, now, as a result of an incomprehensible decision by the us administration, thousands of radical fighters and isis supporters held in syrian prisons will be released to fight again. the horror that the people of northeast syria have experienced at the hands of isis jihadists may therefore be repeated. in the face of the abandonment of kurdish forces by us allies, the european union should immediately take diplomatic action to bring about a swift resolution of the crisis. all forms of pressure must be used to force turkey to abandon its offensive against the kurds. we should also consider immediately sending the necessary humanitarian aid and material support to the area of military action in order to minimise the suffering of the civilian population.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, recently several new ukrainian affairs have captured media attention. they do not give us a chance to forget about the conflict. one was the so—called steinmeier formula – a proposal to hold local elections in donbas under osce and other supervision. the agreement does not however mention any military solution in donbas. the proposal is in line with the russian concept to federalise ukraine, which may lead to autonomy of the regions, weakening of the central government and increased russian influence. i understand the search for a compromise solution. the democratic ukrainian leadership has a full mandate to try to solve these terrible dilemmas in its own way. however, i should signal cautious behaviour, to be careful not to fall into another one of putin’s traps. only relying on the normandy format has not led to a solution of the conflict. it seems that some do not want to resolve the conflict in favour of ukraine. they want to get rid of the problem and to return to business relations with moscow. warsaw, therefore, reminds european capitals and kiev that solutions to this international dispute must be based on current international law and respect for victims’ rights.
mr president, ms mogherini, for the record, i’m confident i don’t have to tell you how important this is, and that the principle that borders should not be changed in europe by force is sacrosanct with this house. therefore, if we were to find a solution in the crimea donbass, the people’s will should be freely expressed there – not under the barrel of a russian gun. but i would also like to remind you that this should be a european issue: ukraine is under russian aggression because they chose to have an association agreement with us. they wanted their country to be more european. therefore, i think the geneva process – the eu, you, the united states, ukraine and russia – is perhaps a better formula for resolving this issue, rather than member states freelancing on their own. good luck.
mr. chairman, please! ukraine is the european country that has suffered the most from the violence and has not received effective support from democratic europe. ukraine decided to move west and resisted russian aggression. she's built an army and is trying to make the necessary reforms. the ukrainian public has largely accepted the aspiration to join nato and the european union. to maintain this course, ukraine needs a clear declaration from the western countries that its accession is realistic. i also need a clear statement of when and under what conditions this may occur. otherwise, the pro-russian forces will again gain the upper hand, and ukraine will be alienated from europe. the new ukrainian authorities are trying to maintain public support and not to betray the trust they were given in the elections. in parallel, part of the territory of ukraine is occupied. it is up to us in europe to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in ukraine. however, the european union must show firm solidarity and provide political and economic support to enable the new authorities to maintain their pro-european stance and carry out the reforms necessary to strengthen the state and consolidate democracy.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. in april, a new president was elected, and in july, a new parliament and government were elected in ukraine. it is important that the eu pays attention to the activities of the new government from the outset, helps the country to transform with a european approach, and fully and properly implements the reforms undertaken. the former government has in many cases implemented ukraine's reforms by abolishing or curtailing basic democratic human and minority rights. i am thinking here primarily of the education and language law, or the incitement against the hungarian minority. in a written question addressed to you, i also drew attention to the atrocities and state harassment that transcarpathian hungarian leaders and organizations have suffered. after the change of the president, this has somewhat ceased, but harassment and intimidation of hungarian community leaders and organizations continues, especially during the early parliamentary elections. they continue to fail to comply with international commitments to protect minorities, which should be taken more seriously in the association councils.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news of the famous, notorious, call by trump to president zelensky has partially diverted attention from another key event. the european union is also calling on the council to take action to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a nuclear war. the adoption of a special status for the donbass is also planned in the future. this development comes on the heels of a promising exchange of prisoners between ukraine and russia and will lead to a normandy format summit in the near future, to which i hope the high representative will be able to join. i was struck by the very harsh phrases in trump's phone call, in which the american president accused the eu and its member states of not doing enough for ukraine. president zelensky confessed that he agreed. i therefore believe that europe has a twofold task: to firmly support president zelensky's decision, despite all understandable doubts and necessary precautions, and to ensure that russia fully complies with the terms of the agreement. five years of conflict have left 13 000 dead, 1.5 million homeless and 40 000 injured. as imperfect as this arrangement is... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, media freedom is under threat in ukraine. according to the ukrainian journalists themselves, the ukrainian media market is hostile to independent media and freedom of speech. the reason is that ukraine is controlled by oligarchs whose media dictate the rules of the game. media that seeks to be truly independent are forced to violate their own principles in order to survive. they don't inform on all the important issues and they overburden their employees and hire them illegally. the national council of television and radio broadcasting of ukraine does not renew or seek to judicialally revoke the licenses of entities seeking balanced news broadcasting. representatives of the ukrainian media therefore call on us to join the fight for real freedom of speech and independence of the ukrainian media. the question is whether the ep will listen to them and join them. we should, because other times, especially on these issues, we're very active and everyone's getting support.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will do my part to contribute to your time management. i know it is very late and you still have a debate, so i would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for the input on different topics and maybe say just a few words on the fact that, for sure, the protection of minorities and media freedom inside ukraine is part of our constant work with the institutions and also with civil society. this is an issue that i didn’t raise in my introductory remarks, so i want to add that, because some of you have rightfully raised this issue. this constitutes a constant attention that we have. i also want to guarantee to you that all suggestions and input on different topics, be it on the kind of support we can give to the reform process inside the ukraine or to the minsk agreement implementation and the resolution of the conflict, will be reflected in our discussions with the 28 foreign ministers of the member states on monday, but also – and mainly – with our ukrainian counterparts, as the foreign minister will be joining us on monday. as this might well be my last debate in this parliament, i would also like to thank the parliament – this mandate and the previous mandate – for an excellent cooperation, not only on the issue of ukraine, but also on all foreign and security and defence issues in which the parliament has played a crucial role over these five years. for me, it has been a real pleasure to share this work with you. (applause)
in writing. ukraine, one of the eu's most important neighbours, is the victim of military aggression, which has resulted in the loss of part of its territory. the european union has promised to help ukraine, but our help is not enough. we need to be more involved and make these actions more effective so that the citizens of ukraine feel that we support them. we should provide the ukrainian authorities with the technical assistance they need to reform their state. the experience of the central european member states is an invaluable example for our eastern neighbour, because they were able to do what ukraine should have done. eu assistance must therefore be more effective and, above all, more immediate.
in writing. we are following the situation in ukraine, a country directly adjacent to the eastern border of the european union and a very important partner of our community. these observations often arouse mixed feelings. on the one hand, we welcome the gestures of goodwill such as the bilateral exchange of russian and ukrainian prisoners. on the other hand, we are again in a situation where the borders between the two countries have been changed by force. we cannot accept this in our neighbourhood or anywhere else on the world map. as the european parliament, we should be clear and firm in our support for international law to be respected in conflict areas too, for the rights of national minorities to be respected, and for everyone to have the right to information and freedom of expression. let us hope that the so-called steinmeier formula will not be perceived by russia as a sign of weakness and seen as a concession to its policies. i hope it does not encourage further aggressive actions, more or less disguised, as has been the case so far. the council meeting will be held soon, and the ukrainian delegation is expected to be present. i hope that her work will bring us closer to a peaceful solution to the conflict in eastern ukraine in accordance with international law.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in poland, projects are currently being implemented to create comprehensive cancer networks to ensure equal access for all patients. and just as in poland, the action is about merging fragmented healthcare into a coordinated action, so in europe, we should join forces and create a common and concrete action plan that excludes no one. so if we are really going to act here in the european parliament, let us take steps towards creating coordinated health care, to make the best use of the knowledge that the member states already have. let's exchange experiences so that the treatment is not one that is random and fragmented, but one that is based on the simple principle that the patient's well-being is paramount. let not place of birth, wealth or health insurance reform be a factor that deprives european patients of hope in cancer. let us unite our actions in the proverbial polish solidarity, because in the face of illness we can all stand in solidarity with patients whose challenge is to fight the disease.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission has been working on the fight against cancer for many years. a lot has been done, but it's still not enough. europe needs an effective strategy to fight cancer. europeans deserve a comprehensive and horizontal programme drawn up with the best specialists. the introduction of uniform standards in all member states and the strengthening of the conditions conducive to the fulfilment of individual patient needs is necessary and necessary. the only way we're gonna win this particular race against time is if we get to work on special committees, all over the party. the one thing we need now is political will, or maybe just good will. i'm counting on your support. our citizens look to brussels with hope. we can't let them down.
in writing. in may of this year, i was diagnosed with breast cancer. because of the publicity surrounding my illness, many patients have come to me. from their accounts, it is becoming increasingly clear that the medical profession in poland is facing deep systemic problems. i'll start with the positive news: there's no shortage of medical equipment in poland. but we're short of personnel to operate the equipment. there is a shortage of doctors, with an average of only 2.4 doctors per 1000 inhabitants in my country (the eu average is 3.8). many doctors have left or abandoned their profession because of poor working conditions. those who remain are working overtime, many beyond their means. there is a shortage of nurses (the average age of nurses in poland is 52), laboratory specialists and technicians. we need to train or hire thousands of new skilled workers to work in this sector. there's a lack of psychological support for patients and their families. we need to build psychological support. the research and treatment pool is inadequate. often, patients cannot afford to wait in lines for months for tests and treatment. treatments for their illnesses are non-refundable. they are forced to pay for their own medical care. we need effective treatment programs. all these shortcomings are the result of a huge underfunding of health care, so in addition to creating the onco committee, we must guarantee funds to fight cancer.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption of the multiannual financial framework is our great task. the european parliament has a negotiating mandate for both expenditure and revenue in the next multiannual financial framework. we therefore call for negotiations that take account of real problems and needs in order to reach a sound agreement in a timely manner. in our view, the commission should prepare a contingency plan in the event of delays in the adoption of the new financial framework. the contingency plan, which extends the current financial framework, will help protect eu beneficiaries. this resolution should be supported as soon as possible to proceed to negotiations. with reference to the likely future basket of new resources, we would like to recall that any new initiative must comply with the principles set out in protocol no 28 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, so as not to be regressive towards partners and beneficiaries.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, of course, i want to thank all the creative, hard-working people who made this documentary. i would remind you that this is a correct but systematically repeated diagnosis of the market and social policy, and it concerns the euro area in particular. we are talking about poverty, unemployment, the plight of young people, education that is not adapted to the labour market, an ageing society and societies that are not keeping up with the 4.0 revolution. there are no ideas, no solutions. i hope that we will discuss this with the commission. i would like to point out that many of the provisions in this report go beyond the scope of the euro area, and are a major interference with the legislation of the member states. i hope that when the commission develops further documents, we will be able to have a serious discussion not just about the diagnosis but about how to solve the problems.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. social policy strategies need to address a number of timely challenges; we need to address the challenges of ageing, digitalisation and the changes they bring to the labour market. europe has been ageing for decades, with the proportion of people aged 65+ increasing in all member states. this is obviously the effect of longer life spans, and that's good, but it's also the effect of lower fertility, and that's bad. europe is facing demographic ageing with problems such as the feminization of ageing, the singularization of ageing and therefore we need to develop a strategy for the quality and accessibility of long-term care systems. there is a pressing need to make more investments, but this is also a labour market, so we need to look at what the standard of work is. finally, commissioner, i would like to thank you very much for your cooperation so far.
president, we were surprised this week by the report from the european court of auditors that some 300 billion euro of the european multiannual budget remains on the shelf. that is more than twice the entire annual european budget. i am therefore equally surprised that some members in this house want to increase the next multiannual budget even further. of course, brexit will have budgetary consequences, but as far as the cda is concerned, we will also first look at expenditure critically. where and why does money remain on the shelf and what might be available? new priorities do not necessarily mean more money. the european budget is not a christmas tree on which everyone can hang their own projects. there has to be a balance. we can only spend every euro once, so let's be careful with it. we must not give political gifts which the citizens have to pay for, but spend them wisely and efficiently, as they should. that is not the case here and that is why the cda voted against this resolution.
madam president! i supported the position on the multiannual budget, but i wanted to make two points. first, in the context of a still unclear brexit, i believe that the european commission should develop a contingency plan in the event that the united kingdom leaves without an agreement and, as a result, stops paying any contributions to the common budget as from next year. i believe that a solution must be found to ensure that payments to beneficiaries of eu-funded programmes in all member states are secure, including the residents of the greater poland region in poland, who have entrusted me with a mandate to the european parliament. the second issue is the reform of the union's own resources system. i am convinced that new sources of funding - beyond the elimination of rebates and adjustments - should include new fiscal solutions, including a digital tax. it should cover all internet companies that generate huge profits in the union but, unlike other players in the internal market, do not pay the taxes due on those profits simply because they are based outside the union.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the world's oldest travel agency has collapsed, and we know that travel services and the travel market are growing. there are many reasons for this dramatic event. we all know that tourism companies should be able to carry out their missions with integrity and not just think about their own revenues at the expense of consumers. i am very surprised that the board of a tourist company is making huge profits, knowing that the situation of the company they are leading is getting worse. this is the first and most important dishonesty in the business sector, in tourism. tourism is one of the sectors of the economy that has a very big impact on gdp, it has a big impact on the regions. i come from such a region, i.e. podkarpaty in poland, where there are many tour operators, many tourist places. so, ladies and gentlemen, we should all the more analyze tourist offers, tourist products in terms of their true reliability. the sad end of the oldest tourist company, thomas cook, is a sad occasion to draw attention to all tour operators and to the fact that we in the european parliament need an ex ante analysis of all tourist products and tourist companies.
madam president! we're talking about the bankruptcy of a major corporation. but the same situation can happen in the case of a natural disaster, it can happen in the case of possible new terrorist acts. tourism in europe provides jobs for 27 million people. it's one of our most important sectors, and one of the most vulnerable to various disasters. i ask myself whether the european commission and the european council are our partners in dealing with the problems of tourism at european level. in 1950, there were only 25 million tourists worldwide. now, last year, 2018, 710 million international tourists came to europe alone. this shows that the industry has become global, and that much more stringent eu rules are needed. i ask why the future president of the european commission, in the first hundred pages of her report, was not able to mention even a word about tourism as an industry, as an important factor in our daily lives. this case now highlights the need for a much stronger tourism policy at european level. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i am here because my german colleague was stranded on the train. unlike the thousands of tourists stranded last summer because of the bankruptcy of thomas cook, my colleague has a backup. i mean, myself. we must therefore ensure that in the event of a subsequent bankruptcy, the traveller is informed more effectively and more quickly of the consequences. it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. so that holidaymakers can get home very quickly in an emergency. i therefore call for stronger national guarantee systems to ensure that no one, especially during the coming christmas holidays, is left behind.
madam president, i think this debate is interesting in itself. to see british colleagues here shouting that this is their business is really ridiculous. people from all over the world were flying from thomas cook's office. indeed, the bankruptcy of the largest travel agency in the world, which has been in existence since 1841, will affect other countries of the european union and its citizens. it's not just those who have travelled, that is, consumers who have bought a trip from the uk. but it's consumers from other countries, but it's also landlords in greece, in italy, in spain, in portugal, who haven't been paid until today. and that's why we need to open this question. here's where we need to tell our colleagues in the uk what a mistake they made when they actually voted for brexit. because we have the tools to solve this problem. those who are released can apply for money from the european globalisation adjustment fund, and we have other tools to bring consumers back to the uk.
commissioner, a lot of things have been said. we are debating. it's good that we're discussing bankruptcy, a resounding bankruptcy, a company that's over 170 years old, with millions of customers, with hundreds of thousands of employees. do you think it is necessary, however, to think, the european commission, to have this segment - tourism - which brings a substantial percentage to the gdp of the european union, to have a strategy, to have a budget line, to have directions for action, because yes, it is a private company. i wonder, are you going to analyze why this bankruptcy was? did you audit this company? did he have any insurance to cover it? we cannot leave citizens, employees, but also tourists and passengers totally exposed because a company is developing chaotically. i can't believe he couldn't see a £1,700 billion debt when he's been operating for so long, when he has huge turnover figures. so here, commissioner, i'm asking for a very thorough analysis. of course, we must help the passengers, we must help the employees, the member states must intervene, but we cannot leave this mess that has happened to a traditional company, the second largest tourist company in the world.
i have to say, madam president, thomas cook's collapse is one thing. georgia browning donned her uniform and sat down at the local pub with her colleague to help the stranded tourists. they didn't get paid, but they wouldn't leave the travelers behind. they have been in a good workplace, a good workplace that ended overnight without any warning. the collapse is unique in size, but not in shape. as has happened so many times before, the big losers are europe's wage earners. of course, ceo fankhauser can sit back and enjoy his millions in bonuses. meanwhile, thousands have lost their jobs, the security of their families, and are now struggling to pay their bills. the management knew there was danger. georgia and her colleagues did not. the whole of europe should learn from the collapse of thomas cook. the social dialogue between management and employees in europe's large enterprises must and must be strengthened so that no one is left behind, as we see it now.
madam president, consumer confidence in the single market is crucial and can only be achieved by strong protection of their rights. the tourism sector is of enormous importance for the european internal market as a driver of economic growth and job creation. the bankruptcy of the operator thomas cook has a strong impact not only on consumers but also on the tourist regions affected, such as the algarve and the alentejo. this puts families, businesses and the local economy at serious risk. i think it is vital that the european commission and the member states ensure that the rules in force are applied and the available funds used, and that additional measures, such as strengthening the protection of air passengers, are taken to ensure that consumers are properly compensated for the damage caused. only in this way will it be possible to guarantee the proper functioning of the internal market and the level of consumer protection we are proposing.
madam president, when thomas cook, a british icon, declared bankruptcy in september, hundreds of thousands were left stranded and the 21 000 employees, including 9 000 in the uk, were left unemployed. but let’s not be in any doubt: thomas cook went under because of bad management. while the civil aviation authority should be commended for its efforts – thanks to eu passenger rights – to get people home, our government, unlike others in europe, did nothing to protect consumers, workers or taxpayers. they sat back and let the company fold: not because they couldn’t do anything, as we’ve heard from the people who have left the chamber now, but because they did not want to. it was great news that a real corporate success story in tourism – sunderland’s own hays travel – stepped in, saving scores of local jobs as a result. but now, considering the scale of damage to our economy, and particularly our manufacturing industries, as johnson’s brexit beckons, we need a government that is willing to defend jobs and rights, not one that sits back and lets those jobs go and then starts to blame others, as we’ve heard here hall tonight.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the world's second largest tour operator goes bankrupt, the impact will be huge both on the employees affected and on the many thousands of customers. i have heard a lot of criticism of the package travel directive in the debate today, but i think it is addressed to the wrong person. we have regulations at european level thanks to the package travel directive, but we would have to look at these regulations in detail in the member states. we have countries like the united kingdom where the taxpayer is supposed to pay for everything in the end. we have countries like my country, germany, where there is an insurance solution, but in the end it is not enough. 110 million is not enough for this case. the damage has been almost tripled, and that is why i ask the commission - and mrs thyssen, you have fortunately already said so in your opening statement - to look again at the directive, but above all at its implementation in the member states. i would also like to commend the commission for the rapid approval of the bridge loan for the condor. condor is a solid company in germany, which is not to blame for the bankruptcy at the end of the day, where many thousands of jobs are now protected and many customers can continue to fly on holiday; this company has been saved by a long way. thank you very much to the commission.
madam president! as a lecturer in transport and tourism law at a university, i would like to point out and emphasise that, as in germany, in poland too, legislation has for many years provided for consumer protection in the form of insurance and bank guarantees at the risk of losing a licence. the bankruptcy of thomas cook is certainly a reason to think about changing the way we think about tourism services and introducing consumer protection instruments on a large scale in the union, because these services are cross-border and difficult to limit to one country. i welcome the amendment to the package travel directive which has been adopted, but as legislators we must do more in the future to protect consumers of travel services and operators, and to take care of the workers in the tourism industry. it is also important to ensure the safety of passenger flights, as mentioned earlier.
madam president! there was a big word in this debate today: auschwitz. i come from a country where this concentration camp was operated by the nazis. but auschwitz was not created when the crematorium was built. auschwitz started much earlier. when we call someone a rainbow plague, when we burn a synagogue, when we burn a mosque, when we shoot at defenseless people who are refugees, when we burn an asylum seeker's home, then we are building another auschwitz. in this room are representatives of a party whose leader calls refugees people who spread germs. there are politicians in this room who have supported the ban on the creation of so-called lgbt-free zones in my country. in this room is also the widow of my friend paweł adamowicz, the president of gdańsk, who was murdered just because someone disagreed with his views. because when he asked people to stop chasing him, when he supported the equality parade, when he supported the refugees, no one responded. today we have his widow, who became a member of the european parliament. but this is a memento that should be with us. i come from a country of "solidarity" as well, not just auschwitz, and that's why i ask for this solidarity. not denigrating hate, not normalizing hate, but calling hate by its name, because it has its name, it has its party symbol, it has its name. we have to call things by their right names before we have another auschwitz. and that's what i'm asking you to do today.
the question posed by the blue card. thank you for accepting my blue card. i listened to your speech with interest. i have to say, i'd agree with a substantial part of it. but: do you think it is enough to express condolences to the victims of right-wing extremism, that is, especially the jewish community, if your speech lasted only 10 seconds and the entire remaining minute was addressed to the victims of other extremism? how did you pay your respects to these people?
madam president! the recent events in halle have again shocked us, as this is yet another hate crime that painfully marks our society. it's certainly no secret that issues related to hate speech are a motivation for my political and social engagement. this is not just about anti-semitism, racism, homophobia or terrorism. it's about democracy and about drawing a line between free speech and hate speech. as legislators, we need to set ambitious targets to combat hate speech online and offline, and to look at it across the board, taking into account its inevitable consequences for society. i would like to stress in this context, with all the force that i have gained from my own experience, that the responsibility lies with us all. it's not good to blame one person for another. we all have to start with ourselves, and we all share the same guilt. and i stress: we can put up walls, we can blame the police, we can put up fences in front of churches, mosques, but the most important thing is education, education and education.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this debate very much. it’s a very important debate. we have to keep shining a light on the issues that have been raised this evening. there have been other occasions when we’ve discussed anti-semitism. there can be no doubt about the commission’s commitment to tackle that. you’ve discussed it at length with my colleagues frans timmermans and věra jourová, and i think there can be no doubt that the new commission will continue its efforts to tackle anti-semitism and tackle racism, xenophobia and extreme nationalism because these are fundamentally opposed to our shared values. at the same time, we need to continue our efforts to counter violent extremism. i said it at the beginning of this debate and i shall say it at the end of this debate: violent extremism, whatever its source – that is, far-right violent extremism, far-left violent extremism, jihadi extremism, i’m not making some sort of distinction between those – we must focus our efforts to tackle violent extremism. i agree with those who have spoken about the need to focus on prevention, to counter the radicalisation that can lead to that hatred and violence, and we must do that through education and we must do that through our effective engagement with civil society, that is, local government, teachers, but also police officers, prison and probation staff. all those who find themselves on the front line in this fight. and we must work as part of this effort with the social media platforms because, whether we like it or not, this is the vehicle and the vector that spreads and accelerates so much of this hateful, violent and illegal content. it’s not because i have some problem with the social media platforms – they are being abused to spread this hatred and illegal content – but we do need to work with them. the violent extremist activity at halle which we’ve all spoken about during this debate was carried out with a commentary in english. it was designed to spread a message across all our countries and possibly wider – a message of violence and hatred. because some of the lessons that have been learnt after christchurch were put into effect, it was, as somebody said during the debate, only half an hour after that live-streaming that it was being taken down. that meant that it was actually seen as live-streaming by a relatively small number of people. but unfortunately that doesn’t stop it spreading. it’s spread to various channels, social networks, fora, image boards. it is still possible to see this content, as it is possible still to see content from the christchurch attack, which is why we have to find more effective ways – working with the social media platforms – of targeting and eliminating this content because it does poison minds. i, like many of you who have spoken, believe that our strength is our values, and we need to remember what we stand for as we take forward this fight against extremism, hatred and violence. and it’s going to help us. those values are going to help us to win this fight.
member of the commission. – madam president, the parliament has invited the commission to issue a statement on criminalisation of sexual education in poland. as i speak to you, to our knowledge, there’s no such legislation currently in force, and the commission does not comment on draft legislation. but we can only note our regret that it’s necessary for us to debate this subject this evening. when it comes to education policy, as you know, article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union sets out that member states are responsible for the content of teaching and the organisation of their education systems. that said, the union does encourage cooperation between the member states in this area. curricula regarding sexual education are part of teaching. that said, the school education gateway – which is europe’s online platform on school education for teachers, school leaders, policy-makers and experts – has opened a survey on the topic of sexual education to try and understand better the views of teachers who work in this field. the survey is open until 20 november, available in 23 languages, and the results of that survey will be published on the school education gateway. when it comes to the criminal law: again, as you know, article 83 of the tfeu sets out that union competence comes into play for serious crimes with a cross-border dimension. now that does include the offence of sexual exploitation of women and children. indeed, as you know, directive 2011/93 criminalises sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the directive requires member states to take appropriate measures, including education and training, to discourage and reduce the demand that fosters all forms of sexual exploitation of children. examples include campaigns on the consequences of violating the law as well as the short- and long-term damage to those who are caught up in this vile crime. the commission will make use of its enforcement powers under the treaties to ensure that this directive is implemented fully and correctly, and that includes ensuring that national laws do not interfere with the purpose of the directive of preventing the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i am also surprised that we are debating here in this parliament about sex education in poland, so that polish children have the opportunity to defend themselves against pedophilia and against unwanted pregnancies. pope francis said, "sex is a gift from god, and sex education must be taught in schools". he said this out of concern for the younger generation, and unfortunately i get the impression that school sex education in poland today under the pis government has become a very suspicious thing. in fact, some say that the lack of sex education protects against pedophilia. i'm surprised that the current government is deaf to all rational and scientific arguments, because what is going on? in poland, more and more people are infected with sexually transmitted diseases, hiv prevention is failing, the number of mothers under 15 is increasing, children are giving birth, the number of young people who take their own lives due to lack of understanding, intolerance and hatred is increasing. in 2018 alone, 13.5 thousand children in poland were victims of sexual violence, and only honest, good sex education allows young people to start their sexual life later, allows them to cope with violence, the temptations of pedophiles, peer pressure, and also allows them to escape from forced sexual initiation. ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, depravity is not sexual education, it is the denial of the right to reliable knowledge about one's own body, sexuality, contraceptive methods and the dangers posed by pedophiles.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's 2019 and we're having this conversation like we're in the middle ages. well, the law and justice government on wednesday introduced an amendment to the bill on the criminalization of sex education. you might think that this is a project written under the dictates of the pedophile lobby, but it's actually creating a hell for the victims and a heaven for the pedophiles. this bill introduces a penalty for discussing sex education. if the commissioner had spoken in poland after the law was passed, giving the websites, addresses, names, all the elements he mentioned in his speech, he would have faced a potential five-year prison sentence. in poland, five years in prison for theft or domestic violence. after the bill is introduced, the same punishment will be meted out to anyone who, for example, is a psychologist a child comes and complains that he has a problem and the psychologist conducts a discussion or a doctor who makes a video about contraception and posts it on youtube. the same punishment will be meted out to the teacher who takes the children to the cinema and during the film there will be a scene of a sexual nature. that teacher will also be brought before the da. it's a big threat, because right-wing radicals start in poland, but make no mistake, they'll come for you if we don't show solidarity. we, the s&d group, therefore call for a resolution on this matter and for a categorical condemnation of this stupid, medieval and unnecessary idea.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am very sorry to hear the voices and the debate, because it is based on a lie. you, the member of the chamber of deputies and the commission, have simply lied. the polish government is not working anywhere, at any level, on any law banning sex education, the commissioner mentioned. the second regret and confusion, in which you are also involved, commissioner, is that members of parliament, including experienced members such as mrs lukatiewska, voted to have this debate, even though education and education systems are outside the jurisdiction of any european treaty. finally, sex education, ladies and gentlemen, is in poland. it was described accurately as early as 1999. it's in education law, it's in every level of education. but it's an education that sees the young person together with their needs, teaches them love, partnership, responsibility, teaches them respect for each other, teaches them behavior in controversial, extreme situations. it teaches how to defend oneself against ideas such as those that mr biedroń is talking about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is also proposing to ban sex education in schools and if teachers dare to educate polish young people, to give them a healthy access to their own bodies and to their sexuality, they will face five years in prison in the future? yes, that's what this terrible bill does. this is a disgrace! we must oppose this medieval policy with all our might. what europe needs is more education, more and above all better and more modern sexuality education for our young people. and we're working on it. one of the central demands of the nairobi summit next month is precisely that: access to sexuality education. progress instead of backlash is our motto. let us oppose this erosion of women's rights!
mr president, the polish authorities' proposal to ban and penalize sex education is against the times. it encourages younger people to approach sexuality through channels and materials such as pornography, which are at the opposite of the values that the promoters of this initiative supposedly intend to defend. finally, it is counterintuitive, given that poland has ratified the istanbul convention, the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. it also has an international human rights obligation to provide access to information and education on sexuality and to challenge gender stereotypes in society. experience shows that educating, teaching, applying the knowledge and experience of pedagogy to approach a basic aspect of the human condition such as sexuality is a good thing, and to oppose it, on the pretext that talking about sex normally can enhance inappropriate behaviors, is incomprehensible. i, therefore, want to reclaim those programmes. in navarre, a spanish region, the most reactionary right wing also opposed a sexual education programme for schoolchildren; a programme that combated gender stereotypes and which has been awarded by many international organisations, including unesco. i ask you to think about it. we are talking about education, freedom, pedagogy, and we are in europe. to criminalize such programs is against history and above all against people. (the speaker refuses to allow anna zalewska to put a question to her under the 'blue card' procedure.)
mr president, you are talking about the criminalisation of sexual education, but none of you have even read this law. you are disseminating some fake information. i am reading this bill now. article 1: ‘whoever publicly promotes or approves paedophiles’ behaviour shall be subject to a fine, the penalty of restriction of liberty, or the penalty of deprivation of liberty for up to two years’. that is not the criminalisation of education but a ban on promoting paedophilia, which is present in most penalty codes in member states. it would be better for members of the european parliament to read the text of the bill before accusing someone. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i will read the justification: the proposed amendment will provide legal protection for children and young people from sexual depravity and demoralization, which is developing at a dangerous pace and affects thousands of the youngest poles through so-called sex education. tell me, mr. jak, how are children supposed to protect themselves from the evil touch? how are they supposed to defend themselves against pedophiles? how do you fight to keep children from accessing pornography on the internet? so you think total ignorance is the way to fight all the sexual evil in the world?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i will of course answer the honourable member. how can you protect yourself from pedophilia? that's how you protect yourself against pedophilia. just find out how. if you don't agree with the idea of punishing those who promote paedophilia, which is a crime in most european union countries, then you have a problem with understanding. the mp is yelling at me because she knows i'm telling the truth, and usually i am, and it's also shown by studies, like the ones on pedophilia, that people get most upset when they hear the truth that is uncomfortable for them. another false thing that you're spreading is that this is not a government project. this is a citizens' bill and the government in poland has not even taken a position on this issue whether it will support it or not, but it has said something else: that no citizens' bill that will be submitted to the upper house will be rejected before the first reading. and the state is deliberately lying and misleading everyone.
mr. chairman, please! i don't want to waste time reading more points of justification, because just now mr. jaki, like his predecessors, simply lied and told the untruth. even information on contraception and prevention is to be punished. but the most important thing is that you confuse pedophilia with sex education, and sex education is supposed to be knowledge and proven medical science. this isn't about soliciting sex or sexualizing young people. lack of knowledge, on the other hand, leads to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and to many misfortunes, as young people often commit suicide or become depressed when they recognize their sexuality and do not know what to do about it. let each parent ask himself, would he prefer that his child learn about medical matters related to this important area of life from peers, from the internet, from pornographic films, or would he prefer that knowledge about such important, intimate and life-altering matters, which shape a person for a lifetime, be acquired from people who are professionally trained, from educators, from teachers trained for this purpose? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'd like to ask you a question: have you reviewed the programmatic foundations for raising children in a family? it's the 21st century out there. we have a parent who makes the decision about how the education will be conducted. it is the statutory duty of the head teacher and the teacher to prepare the parent and the child for the same education. finally, do you know that parents and teachers have a preventive curriculum in which all the necessary elements that they consider important in their children's education must be included?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. ladies and gentlemen! i can read a passage from the justification that talks about what will be penalized: activities that promote sexual activity, that condone sexual acts, that deal with contraception, prevention of pregnancy among minors, sexually transmitted diseases, the processes of puberty and adulthood. i can keep going on like this. i'm a mother, i know this program, i know other programs, and i don't want to speak personally, but irresponsible interference in education has serious consequences. we in poland are experiencing just such irresponsible interference in education. this is terrible.
mr. chairman, please! i want to remind you that the law that was signed by 265,000 people in poland is a civil law. it's not a government law, for one thing. mr. biedron, i ask you a question: are you in favor of promoting pedophilia? because that's what this law says about the prohibition of the promotion of pedophilia in poland. pedophilia, i remind you, is one of the most cruel crimes against children, especially young children, and the system you defend is precisely this pattern of action, which is designed to break down barriers to the victim and is exploited by the ideology you espouse. i want to say clearly and unambiguously, mr biedron, that we must not mislead an institution as important as the european parliament. you can't! this is a bill that is supposed to prohibit the promotion of pedophilia, and the rationale for this bill should be read in its entirety, not just in fragments. we will defend and protect children whether you like it or not, and the primary cell where a child is to learn about the processes of education is first of all the family and parents, who, according to the polish constitution, are to decide on the education of children. (the speaker refused to answer two questions raised by the raising of the blue card by robert biedronia and magdalena adamowicz)
mr. chairman, please! today the european parliament is debating a bill that polish citizens have put before the polish parliament. i want to correct mr. biedronia's lies, because this is a civil law, not a government law, and you have to be fully aware of that. what's it about? it's only four paragraphs. anyone who publicly promotes or condones pedophilia is liable to a fine, a term of imprisonment of up to 2 years or a restriction of liberty. who among you disagrees with that? raise your hand. just a little bit. second paragraph: 'the same penalty shall be imposed on anyone who publicly promotes or approves of the sexual intercourse of a minor.' next paragraph: if the perpetrator commits the act identified by means of mass communication, he is liable to imprisonment for up to 3 years. and last paragraph: "whoever promotes or approves of the sexual intercourse or other sexual activity of a minor, acting in connection with the occupation of a position, and exploits a child, shall be punished by deprivation of liberty". mr. biedron is a lying sack of shit. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm not misleading the house! after all, the law and justice mps voted for this bill! you brought it to the sejm and voted to send it to further work. why are you deceiving the members of the european parliament? you're the ones who rule poland, not martians! it's your government that's made up of a parliamentary majority! why is the member of parliament deceiving the european parliament?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - mr. biedron! - what are you doing? i'll speak clearly and slowly so you understand. this is a citizen project, not a government project. i understand that you do not have the elementary knowledge of legislation, because you were a national member of parliament, which is unfortunately the position of a european member of parliament. you bring nothing but shame and embarrassment.
mr. president, i do not agree with making sex education in poland a european issue. if there is anything that we should be concerned about and that we should take seriously and care about and talk about here at the european parliament level, it is about protecting children from abuse. the protection of children who are exposed to the constant pressure of the consumption of sexual life, the manifestations of sexuality in the cinema, on television, on the internet. it says here that children don't know enough about their bodies. but that's not true. in all the member states, there is a lot of biology being taught about what their bodies are like, what their parts are for. in all member states they already have personal and social education, ethical education, family education. what i'm worried about is that there's a pressure to disconnect sex education from parenting and relationship education. sex as a commodity. i am fundamentally against this concept of sex education, so-called sex education. i think i understand the concern that some may have that children will learn about this subject only through pornography and other material. but it is up to the member states to protect their children, and we should take care of their protection, let the children have their childhood.
well, i must say, i've listened to a lot of debates in this house, but this was one of the strangest. namely, we were talking about a citizens' bill submitted to the sejm, which most mps did not know, because, as far as i know, it was not translated into any other language except polish, so most mps who spoke here not about sex education in general, but about this law, had no idea what they were talking about. one can only wonder that this is just an unconditional reflex that is always triggered when it is said that it is possible to criticize the polish government because it seems to the state that based on false information, this kind of criticism can be carried out. i would urge that in future, when we debate something, you first read the documents, and then we can really talk about things in a serious way. and one more request: do not believe the demagogues!
mr president, i am convinced that education is always the best option, and this is all the more true in such a serious matter as health information, health education. it stands in opposition, in contrast to the darkness, the risky behavior. really, sexually transmitted diseases, of course, rape or unplanned pregnancy or abortion, these are the consequences of a lack of information. i welcome the positions expressed by mrs wiśniewska, who allowed mr biedroń to speak on the matter, and mrs kempa, who spoke here and attacked mr biedroń, not even allowing him to discuss. i think it's good that we're discussing this here. i firmly believe that the plotters of this law will be clearly and quickly condemned, and that the next time the lawmakers of the ruling majority law and justice will give us the good news of how quickly this law was rejected.
in writing. last week, polish women, and not only polish women, took to the streets once again, this time to oppose a law that restricts sex education in poland. i have a lot of respect for the osk, marty lempart and monica auch. - too bad for the quick reaction and action of "autumn of the middle ages" under the polish sejm. the amendments to the criminal code proposed by the creators of this law are vague, which means that the interpretation of the new provisions may vary from case to case. this will make educators and teachers afraid of criminal liability, unable to share their knowledge. the main argument of the bill's proponents was that sex education arouses children, making them easy targets for people who want to exploit them. i think this is a complete mistake, because it's through proper sex education that children are able to avoid situations that threaten their health and life. it helps prevent disease, unwanted pregnancies and makes people aware that heterosexuals live among us and deserve respect and equal rights. children should not be exposed to their sexuality through the pornography now so widely available on the internet. they should learn it in schools, the sooner the better.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the budget is intended to help create more jobs, stimulate economic growth and encourage private investment. the 2020 budget should support the union's cohesion, agriculture and competitiveness. the issue of migration and security is central to the union budget. the draft budget for 2020 provides for improvements in the management of the internal and external dimension of migration and the protection of the external borders. it also envisages strengthening europe's global dimension by addressing the causes of migration in countries of origin and transit. the promotion of sustainable development will also focus on activities carried out under the budget of the european union outside the union, in neighbouring countries. we support such actions. it is a transitional and continuity budget supporting the union's achievements of the past years and the priorities of the current programmes. we believe that this is also a good budget for the launch of the new multiannual financial framework. the ecr believes that the vote in the committee on budgets was a good one and that the budget is worth supporting. our priorities, that is, the priorities of the ecr, i.e. increased allocations to the connecting europe facility (transport and energy) budget compared to the draft budget, and increased allocations to frontex and europol, as well as increased appropriations for erasmus, mean that we can support this budget. we as the ecr support all cases of re-allocation against the draft budget presented by the european commission. here, in the compromise, there is a good place for support for agriculture. we would just like to see this budget fixed on time and avoid the mistakes of previous years, when financial appropriations were not allocated on time and there were various types of arrears which caused difficulties for the beneficiaries.
madam president! the 513 million citizens of the european union are once again looking forward to the new eu budget and are once again counting on the values of the european union, which my predecessor spoke about, but also on certain principles that we have agreed on, to be implemented. that we, the politicians who decide the future of the european union, stick to our priorities. once again, they will be disappointed. once again, the priorities we have chosen, the values we were meant to defend, will not be realized. i regret to say that once again, we will not have enough money in this budget to fight climate disaster - not change, but climate disaster. in poland, the country i represent, 45,000 people die every year because of climate disaster. it's like a medium-sized city disappearing every year in the european union. once again, this budget will lack money to level the playing field for young people. there are regions in europe where there is a shortage of jobs for 40-50% of young people. we had a debate yesterday on radicalism. if you ask where radicalism comes from, it's from neglect like this. that's why i'm calling for a budget that will balance opportunity and not leave people behind.
the commission has already decided to grant a discharge to the member states for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. many of my predecessors have called for confucius, some have called for a return to the principles of aristotelian logic, they have referred to christianity, they have mentioned the fight against anti-semitism, the fight for clean air, for the climate, and we should really be talking about a return to the feast of dionysus. we're dealing with one big theater. the commission proposed it, the council cut it, the european parliament reinstated it. i think the key word here should be "compromise". and really we only need to pay attention to one aspect - my colleagues from the ecr group have been talking about this - so that we do not go beyond the timeframe in this theatre, which will cause the same financial losses in the budgets and in the wallets of the citizens of the european union as happened last year. we must be able to take part in this dionysus celebration in such a way that we can maintain the appropriate regime in preparation for the next multiannual financial framework and that the citizens of the european union feel that we are representing their interests well.
madam president, so maybe i'm not a member of the brexit party and maybe unlike the brexit party members i'm riding around the european agencies. so i know their work and i know the work of the european union. and while i am in favour of reforming the european union, i can imagine that this budget must have been produced with some consensus. and this consensus had to be built on some kind of proposal from the european commission, on the basis of comments from the member states and the european parliament. and because i don't live in a bubble like some members of this parliament who think that the european parliament and the european institutions are detached from reality, but many of us travel and read the eu budget and the auditors' reports, we know that we need to increase the programme or the money for the gsa by eur 2.43 million. because if we are to complete the transformation of this agency that currently provides galileo and other services, we need to put that money into this agency to ensure the new tasks that are ahead of us, and that is first of all the safety of the citizens, and secondly it is actually the replacement of the navigation signal and other capabilities. and that is why i believe that the money will eventually be found and that, after consulting the council, the finnish presidency will prove to be the best and we will be able to find a good consensus that will be good for the commission, for parliament and for the council. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question by raising the blue card. i don't think i'll need 30 seconds. before i became an mep, i studied psychology in austria and we had cases of frustrated people there. and we've had cases of frustration and i think rarely does a diagnosis apply to some members of this parliament as much as what i saw in those diagnoses, so that's my answer.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. they say there is no such thing as a good budget, only a budget that is approved or rejected. well, ladies and gentlemen, i respectfully recommend that the proposal on our table for tomorrow's vote - the european parliament's position on the 2020 budget of the union - be an adopted budget proposal. i also recommend that we support this budget proposal, despite the objections we have to it, because parliament's proposal contains a proposal which i initiated in my amendment, namely to increase the size of the cohesion resources by eur 3 billion in the 2020 budget. this progress provides an opportunity to avoid a situation that we have encountered in the last year of the last seven-year financial framework. i therefore propose to support parliament's budgetary position.
madam president, i would like to tell our british friends not to worry about the level of budgetary management in the european union, because we have a rule under the stability pact that the budget deficit should not exceed 3% of gross domestic product. in the united kingdom, the budget deficit is between 4 and 5% of gross domestic product and the prime minister, mr johnson, has even given instructions to increase public spending to deal with popular discontent with brexit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but however efficient we are in budgetary management and however much we have all been trained in it over the last ten years, it is clear that an additional effort of financing is needed and the european council must help the european parliament to achieve the desired objective.
madam president! i want to start by congratulating the rapporteurs on reaching a difficult compromise. it welcomes the consensus that the union needs to be more active in key areas in 2020, and therefore the agreement in the european parliament to increase the budget by more than eur 2.7 billion over the european commission's proposal. agree that the more than 171 billion we are proposing in next year's budget will be used to fund more actively environmental protection, including climate action, the fight against youth unemployment, the erasmus programme and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also research, including very important research to support cancer treatment. it is also important to help combat the african swine fever (asf) epidemic, which is destroying the livelihoods of many farming families in the european union, including poland. i also thank everyone involved for including 2 million euros for my innovative darknet monitoring project, which i proposed in collaboration with experts. developed and coordinated at eu level, it will support the services responsible for the security of europeans in combating cybercrime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, the exploitation of minors, the illicit arms trade and terrorist threats. i hope that tomorrow this compromise, which has been worked out with great difficulty, will be adopted by a large majority.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. there's a polish saying, "it's darkest under the lantern". in recent months and years, citizens of the member states of the european union have repeatedly been the victims of a kind of moral, sometimes religious, emotional blackmail related to the issue of helping refugees. as regards the asylum agency, one of the most important eu agencies, i will refer to my experience as minister of the interior and administration of the polish government, when we discussed not transferring to this agency the competences of the member states. and now i'm back to the polish saying "the darkest under the lantern". this particular example clearly shows how often european taxpayers' money is being wasted in a very irresponsible way. that's why we, as the ecr group, are adamantly opposed to granting a discharge, because the abuses that have taken place in this particular agency are the best evidence that sometimes the darkest is behind the lighthouse.
mr president, minister tuppurainen, commissioner vera jourová, who will be the commission's vice-president for values and transparency. ten years ago, the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and, within the treaty on european union, the mandate for the european union to accede to the european convention on human rights came into force. and you know what? it is also ten years since this parliament first voted in favour of the commission's initiative for a horizontal directive against all forms of discrimination, particularly for particularly odious reasons which are not mentioned by name in the constitutions, which predate the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, such as discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or belief, beyond religious freedom. that horizontal directive is systematically blocked by the council and this new mandate of the european commission and the european parliament can be a fresh start with the energy and commitment to unblock it as voted by the european parliament in 2010 in 2019 and as the finnish presidency has committed to the economic and social council's advisory committee.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to thank you for your report. no one in europe should be discriminated against on the grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation, religion or gender, including outside the workplace. allowing discrimination just because it's so difficult to fight, because we need unanimity, doesn't mean we can stop doing the right thing. i would therefore like to thank the finnish presidency for having taken up the subject again after 11 years. the world has evolved. we have all these cases of discrimination, and we know from the fundamental rights agency that one in four people have already been discriminated against - in austria it is one in two people - and we know about new cases of discrimination. the catalogue should be extended to include social status. we know that people are discriminated against because they are poor. then they don't get a lease, maybe because they're a woman, because they're gay, because something else doesn't fit, but often also because they're poor, and so this ground of discrimination should be addressed in the future as well.
mr president, some people have to go over more hurdles in life than others do, and i think it’s shocking that one in five europeans have been subject to discrimination in their lives. it’s our task to create equal opportunities for all, regardless of the colour of your skin, your age, your gender or whether or not you have a disability. i therefore think that it’s very good that we are working to deblock the anti—discrimination directive – deblock it in the council and deblock it with the member states. i think it’s also high time that, when we point our finger at someone else, we also look at ourselves. i’d like to know from the commission how many people with a disability work in the european institutions, and how more job opportunities can be created for all of them, because i think it’s important that europe works for all.
mr president, i come from poland, from a member state that has very low standards of protection against discrimination. poland has some laws – only because of eu legislation. if the eu does not have a law in some regard, poles in their own country are not protected against discrimination based on age, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. the results are terrible. just to recall the physical violence and assault during the last pride in poland. the eu has to have comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation. countries like poland need such eu legislation. we need a horizontal anti-discrimination directive. we cannot be a little bit equal: either there is equality or there is not. as a former deputy ombudsperson of the republic of poland, i wish there were more meps in such an important debate that concerns human rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, you have all seen that the next commission will have the ambition to strongly combat discrimination. in her political guidelines, the president—elect, ms ursula von der leyen, put unprecedented emphasis on promoting equality and assigned this new created portfolio to ms dalli, who was mentioned here several times. you heard in her recent hearing ms dalli making a strong personal commitment, in front of your institution, to do everything to advance key legislation in the equality area. maybe you remember i also made a strong commitment and promise in 2014, when i started my mandate in this area. i didn’t expect that the legislation which was already proposed in 2008 would not be adopted over the whole time of my mandate. i regret that, and i find this a failure which is still to be solved. i only want to tell you that we did from the side of the commission everything possible to unblock it, but with all that effort of course we could not guarantee adoption in the council. i heard from member states over the council meetings – of course it was in 2014 back then when we were discussing the progress, rather non-progress, reports in the next years – a lot of different arguments. it was the money, competences, subsidiarity – you mentioned some of them. i remember in 2014 when we started to speak about the possibility to go through enhanced cooperation, which might be the solution, because this requires unanimity so this is an option. this is an option which is procedurally okay but this is an option which is morally absolutely wrong. i was happy that i heard this, also from the member states who did not want to adopt the legislation, that this would be a wrong signal – that some of the member states would be out of such a principle thing. i had maybe hundreds of individual talks with the relevant ministers in the member states. but the relevant minister is another issue, because not in all the member states is there one minister who works for it, who works full—time against discrimination, because the competences are shared and the picture of who is responsible for what is rather blurred also at the member states level. let’s be honest, it requires courage these days in many member states to fight against discrimination and not all politicians are willing to undertake such a risk, because we live in an era of hate—speech online which is turning not only against discriminated people – and this is another fight we are running and we do a lot against hate—speech online – but this is also turning against politicians and journalists who have the courage to write about discrimination. so this is the europe where we live now and we have to work on all these fronts. you also mentioned the difficulty with the implementation of the anti—discrimination legislation because we have legislation in place already. i can give you the example of the gender pay gap. a big portion of the gender pay gap – meaning differences in salaries between men and women – is caused by direct discrimination. a man and a woman, same job, different money. it’s prohibited by the law. where is the enforcement? in many cases, the women are not aware of the gap. so that’s why we wanted to strengthen the ability of the equality bodies in all the member states to act, and to be the helping hand in the member states for these kind of cases so that the victims of such discrimination can go and ask for support and use access to justice, because it’s not a privilege, it’s another guaranteed right which should be used here. the pension gap: we speak here about 40% of the difference, so it’s another shameful story and we have the legislation in place, so we have a gap in the implementation. on discrimination and what to do, i spoke about our efforts to decrease or eliminate hate—speech online, which is fuelling discrimination and vice—versa as these two phenomena are fertilising each other. we already started to work on artificial intelligence and there are still ethical rather than legislative, but still ethical rules, so that not to copy paste the discriminatory behaviour and attitudes to the artificial intelligence sphere. so we are working on many different things, but the thing we speak about here today is a core one. without the legislation we will always be weakened and we will have to find different ways how to achieve the possible and feasible results. so in this context i have big expectations that on thursday i will hear from the relevant ministers from the member states whether the 11—year—old directive is still fit for purpose or whether they see some room for improvements. let’s look at it freshly and newly, without damaging the main purpose. maybe i will hear again the same arguments which i was listening to over the five years, but i am sure that this debate will be very useful and it will give fresh impulse for the new commission and for the council to continue working on it. i want to thank finally again the finnish presidency for bringing this back on the table of the epsco council. let me finish by thanking the parliament for the sustained determination and for the continuous support, because it is absolutely crucial that we remain strong on this together.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, thank you once again for this opportunity to discuss this very important dossier with you. i have listened with great interest to your ideas, including ms jourová. thank you very much, madam commissioner. i couldn’t agree with you more that equality and non-discrimination are at the heart of our common european values. we must enhance it. we must work together on this. i would also like to thank you for your efforts to keep this important topic high on the political agenda. allow me to say that the council has repeatedly and continuously recognised the importance of this file. however, you know that reaching the required unanimity has proven to be difficult despite the efforts and different attempts of each and every presidency since the proposal was tabled more than 10 years ago. the finnish presidency is launching a high-level discussion on the overarching topic of anti-discrimination, hoping to gain insight into the current situation and achieve much—needed new momentum for progress. as i said earlier, as the commissioner also said, and many of you referred to, on thursday, the ministers in the epsco council will discuss how to enhance anti—discrimination in the european union. i personally remain available to exchange with you on any outcomes and next steps. so let’s work together for a sustainable europe and a sustainable future.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. legislative resolution on the council directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation adopted by the european parliament on 2 april 2009. it's been over 10 years. the lisbon treaty requires unanimity in the european council, but for a number of reasons member states cannot reach an agreement. for persons with disabilities, the eu ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010, marking a new beginning: the eu must fulfil its obligation under article 5 of the convention as soon as possible. it is therefore time to recognise that new approaches are needed to the horizontal directive. it is imperative that a prohibition of discrimination against certain groups, which is agreed between member states and, moreover, which is binding on the eu, cannot be legislated because of dilemmas faced by other groups. we will only make progress if we learn from our mistakes and do not try to force everything into a policy. i therefore call on the european commission to treat the disabled as a special group so that they do not suffer further disadvantages.
in writing. i consider the completion of the legislative work on the anti-discrimination directive to be a priority. especially since the council has been discussing it for a decade. in the union, we continue to see many cases of discrimination against individuals and certain social groups on the grounds of age and other grounds of unacceptable exclusion. unfortunately, national law addresses this problem in different ways. the directive would therefore harmonise anti-discrimination legislation at an appropriate level of protection. the lack of unanimity among member states is compensated for by the court of justice, which has made the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of age a general eu law (mangold) and confirmed its direct effect (kücükdeveci). the entry into force of the anti-discrimination directive would avoid many human tragedies resulting, for example, from the arbitrary and collective deprivation of thousands of officers and soldiers serving poland, even one day before 31 july 1990, of their pension rights arising from their service, as well as of the benefits associated with taking up any other job after the end of their service. the national courts have recognised the absurdity and repressive nature of such a practice by referring questions to the cjeu or ruling in favour of the injured parties in breach of the national rule. however, it seems that until a directive is adopted prohibiting discrimination on any ground, the national practice of applying blind collective liability without proof of fault will remain outside the scope of eu law.
mr president, so much has been said, but one thing that i would like to add is that the issue that we are discussing today is much more important than market transparency, competition and economics generally; it’s about regaining trust of our citizens. as a matter of fact, in the campaign to the european parliament, we have maybe all pleaded to have this issue finally resolved, and it has been waiting since 2017, when we voted on it. so let me just say that, while we are preaching tax transparency as the european union, we are far from it. the council is blocking it; three or maybe more presidencies in the past have blocked it. so let me call on the finnish presidency: you can be a true leader for a real change in the council and in europe’s stance on this dossier. we are expected to walk the talk that we preach.
mr. chairman, please! we owe the kurdish people solidarity and i hope that we will all unanimously adopt this resolution tomorrow. let's remember that the kurds shed their blood so that we, the western world, could declare victory in the fight against isis, liberating cities like kobane (we all remember), raqqa and the multicultural mosul, where i spent a few years. i would like to say that these words of solidarity cannot be translated into practical action. that is why we are today proposing in the resolution on the 2020 budget an amendment prepared by the ppe to freeze the pre-accession funds, that is to say paragraph 45, and to transfer these funds to the reserve. we cannot of course limit the funds for aid to refugees, students and civil society, but this practical amendment will also express the position of the european parliament and its disapproval of the massacre of the kurdish people.
madam president, turkey is once again pursuing its illegal plans in defiance of international law. it invaded northern syria spreading death, displacing thousands of people, driving them into exile. it is ethnic cleansing, with european funds, crimes against humanity. the united states, russia, assad are measuring profits and losses, while the west appears in the role of an awkward observer. our values are being shaken, and we have a responsibility for that. the turkish revisionist policy has no principles, no respect for international norms, no regard for any. we must immediately implement targeted economic sanctions, with respect for civil society, and send a clear message to turkey that, on its own responsibility, it is not welcome in the european family. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, i’m reading the title, ‘the turkish military operation in north-east syria and its consequences’. i think it could have been much better. it could read like this. this is not just a military operation, it is a military invasion and its consequences are not just matters of security, of the betrayal of our kurdish allies against the scourge of islamic state. the consequences of this military turkish invasion are specific crimes against humanity, including ethnic cleansing and the plans for illegal settlements against syria, just like with the continuing turkish occupation of the north part of the republic of cyprus, just like afrin, but we can. we can impose an arms embargo, we can crush erdoğan’s economy and, yes, we can bring the criminals to justice. it’s about time.
madam president, i want to express our total rejection of the illegal attack by turkey on the kurdish community. this invasion violates international law, is causing civilian casualties and massive population movements. it also seeks to alter the demography of rojava by relocating two million refugees to an area where kurds, arabs, turkmen and assyrians lived together democratically. the invasion will cross the borders of kurdistan, reopening conflicts involving the great world powers. to avoid this, nato must withdraw its support for turkey and the united nations and the union must combat this violation of international law with effective sanctions. in addition, it is urgent to promote a dialogue-based solution to the crisis. this diplomatic work should be combined with humanitarian aid and pay particular attention to the repatriation of children born to european isis fighters.
madam president! we have european diplomacy, we have the instruments, we have the tools, we have the means, we have everything, and what? one step ahead of us is russia it's very sad. we should, as europe, which is suffering the most from the conflict in the middle east, do everything we can to make sure that this conflict simply ends, and not just on a verbal level, not just on a level of regret, but to make every diplomatic effort to make sure that it does so by using all the agendas. we should also be concerned about the victims. i thank commissioner stylianides, because the activities are indeed organized, but we must remember that there are still many organizations, missionaries who work, who have not left the country, despite the fact that it is a huge risk, including the risk to life and health. commissioner, i ask that you strengthen these organizations. 38 million is a lot, but we can do a lot more. this is my appeal. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the european union countries, including poland, unanimously condemned turkey's unilateral military action in northeastern syria. we must remember that the situation in the region is complex and difficult, and that the current events have been greatly influenced by the actions of many states and forces since 2011, from the crimes of the assad regime, through the iranian guard forces supporting it, to the activities of russian mercenaries, who are well known for their actions in eastern ukraine. however, we must remember the dialogue and we must see the current situation in the broader context of the eu-turkey relationship and the situation in syria. turkey remains an important partner of the eu and an ally in nato. we must look for the right instruments to stabilize the region, look for actions that do not escalate but rather relieve existing tensions. we must remember that the kurds have been sacrificing their lives for many years in the fight against the so-called islamic state. they were on the front lines of this bloody conflict, supporting the forces fighting terrorism, and they paid a terrible price. we should bear that in mind when we seek solutions to the conflict. we call on turkey to end its military actions, to withdraw its forces and to respect international humanitarian law. i am convinced that we all want to have a positive impact on the peace process in northern syria and throughout the country.
mr. chairman, please! it's a pity we're so few. the children and youth who are protesting, and also the citizens who elected us, do not expect us to make fiery speeches. there are already too many of them in the climate debate. they want concrete, concrete plans, and they want a source of funding. so thank you for those voices that say the just transformation fund is the place to start, and what do we have? no commission. i call on the french greens to talk to president macron to nominate a candidate for commissioner. it is time to vote on the whole commission, which will present us with a budget, not with plans, slogans, backed up by no concrete solutions. we asked frans timmermans what the climate bill would look like, how he wanted to distribute the money for environmental protection. he didn't answer any questions. i hope we can work together, really work together for the environment.
madam president! let's start with the fact that there's really no clear definition of climate threat. i, of course, appreciate anyone who genuinely cares about the future of our environment, where the highest value is man. but what is climate change? we're watching videos of the extinction rebellion movement from around the world. they show participants using violence, destroying buildings, generating additional costs for the police. these people don't seem to be fully aware of what they're doing. i'm afraid many have been set up and used for purely anarchist purposes. this is a dangerous and irresponsible move, and the truth is that only the rich and privileged can afford to preach and take radical action to fight climate change, and the poor, the disadvantaged, are the ones who will really pay the price. i've already heard about energy poverty. it's unfair and i'm surprised the european left is taking such action. i believe that energy security and affordability for these very poor people should be our priority. marxist experiments in social engineering have brought nothing but poverty and suffering in the last century. let's not make the same mistake again, and i can see this happening on a massive scale.
president, commissioner, i think we can agree that climate change is a very important challenge. but it seems to me quite obvious that we need to pursue that sustainable, low-carbon and circular society within the framework of innovation, progress and economic growth. it is not enough to focus on the planet and the climate. jobs and prosperity must also be protected. i have three specific comments. we often hear people say: it's system change, not climate change. i fully agree with that, in so far as we are talking about the changes in a system where the economic whole is also closed and the market operation remains intact. second point: we have to go all the way to innovation and leave doomsday thinking out of it. third point: we can't do it alone, of course. we will need allies to meet this challenge and that is why i would ask the commissioner: what is the commission's strategy for actually establishing this international alliance?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is leading the way in tackling climate change and has ambitious targets to set, such as a reduction of at least 50% of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030. but it is necessary to carry out an impact study so that we can make the promises come true and at the same time closely monitor the implementation of circular economy models. but we need the rest of the global players in this effort to address climate change, not just states, but states and regions and regions and civil society. we also need sustainable financing. the european investment bank can become a climate bank, but it is necessary to provide opportunities for using gas as a transition fuel and continue to finance gas infrastructure. it is also necessary to provide practical support to member states which set ambitious targets for the energy transition. my country, greece, is going to reduce its carbon footprint and get it to zero by 2028. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
madam president, transition from fossil-based energy production requires a lot of resources. transition sometimes also has severe social cost. this cost is greater in some countries than in others. poland is an extreme example where the cost is high. nevertheless, it has to be done in the very interest of the country itself whose environment, airways and waterways are crumbling under the burden of coal. poland asks for more money and more time. is it legitimate? it is, but only if there is a determination on the part of the polish authorities to change the energy mix from fossil fuels to renewables. more money and time? yes, but only if the government puts forward a detailed, credible, verifiable and closely monitored roadmap of switching away from coal into renewables.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on:- question for oral answer to the council by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on search and rescue in the mediterranean (o-000024/2019 - b9-0052/2019) (2019/2755(rsp)),- question for oral answer to the commission by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on search and rescue in the mediterranean (o-000025/2019 - b9-0053/2019) (2019/2755(rsp)). before the debate begins, i would like to inform you that you can register as before or use the new electronic registration system to apply for the 'blue card' question procedure. that's why you should always have your voting card with you. if you would like to register for the question and answer session, please do so now, rather than waiting until the end of the debate.
madam president! perhaps we can start with a quote that we all know: "he who saves one life, saves the world". i would like to draw on my experience as a former sailor, a man of the sea. i can't imagine a situation, whether i'm on a merchant ship or a sailing ship, where i see a man in need at sea and i don't help him. on the other hand, as a politician, as a responsible person, i am aware that the criminal groups and the millions of citizens of the sahel countries, from senegal to eritrea, and also those who live in equatorial africa, are listening to this debate we are having today. responsibility, people. as the minister of the interior of the polish government, at the g6 meeting in lyon last october, i heard the only rational voice of the moroccan minister of the interior, who said, "we are facing an invasion". you realize that with this debate, we are encouraging criminal groups and encouraging millions of people who are aware, who have access to the internet, to come to europe and hence these tragedies in the mediterranean.
member of the commission. – madam president, as stated already at the beginning of this debate, saving lives has always been, and will continue to be, the commission’s priority. it’s our moral duty and legal obligation to save lives at sea and grant protection to those fleeing persecution and serious harm, including as a result of war or conflict. to this end we have to continue building a wider, comprehensive strategy aimed at effectively managing migration in all its aspects. in parallel, we should continue our efforts to address the root causes of irregular migration and instability in the countries of origin and transit. we have to fight everywhere smuggling networks that ruthlessly exploit the vulnerabilities of desperate people. we have to offer more accessible and credible legal pathways of economic migration and resettlement for migrants and asylum seekers stuck in third countries. implementing this comprehensive strategy represents a very challenging task, which the eu should not address alone. the only way to achieve results is to continue working in partnership with countries of origin, transit and destination, with the support of international organisations and hand in hand with civil society organisations, sharing responsibilities in a true spirit of international cooperation. i am sure that all these elements will be reflected in the new pact on migration and asylum that the president-elect, ms ursula von der leyen, will present to give a new impetus to the european union response to migratory challenges.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the finnish presidency is fully aware of the critical importance of the humanitarian situation and assistance in the mediterranean sea, and we are committed to working on a more solid solution in collaboration with all stakeholders. such an arrangement needs to bring predictability, in accordance with the international law of the sea concerning disembarkation, and enable efficient asylum and return procedures. it is of utmost importance that we succeed quickly. however, we need a solution that covers all aspects. the eu as a whole, not to mention the migrants themselves, do not deserve that this situation stays unresolved. let me say it clearly: we must save lives. it is people that we are talking about. it is individuals that we are talking about. at the same time, we will continue working on reform of the common european asylum system, in order to deliver a permanent solution to the situation in the future. i remain confident that, thanks to all our efforts, we can make an important step forward towards this goal. thank you very much for the discussion, thank you, mr chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) for your engagement. the work continues.
i have received four motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 october 2019. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. who else is responsible for the tragic deaths in the mediterranean if not those who have turned libya and the sahel into a hotbed for terrorists, arms traffickers and migrants? what this angelic text does not say is that immigration is not only a tragedy for those who are forced to emigrate, but also for the countries of origin, deprived of their labour force and their brains, which are so valuable for their future development. as the european union is set to become the world's leader in the sustainable development goals, how can it convince countries of origin to invest in the training and education of young people who will join the ranks of those seeking asylum? when we deplore that so many lives are lost because of the lack of a legal path to immigration to europe, let me deplore for my part that lives are lost because of the lack of hope for a decent future in so many countries around the world. finally, let us have other ambitions for africa than to confine it to the role of a "waiting room of 1.3 billion people at the gates of europe", in the words of stephen smith.
in writing. i am pleased that after months of a scandalous policy of not accepting refugees rescued in the mediterranean, a political solution to this problem has been found. i hope that the relocation scheme, supported by only seven countries, will prove to be a good model for further cooperation and that other european countries will soon join in solidarity. the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees reports that more than 1,000 migrants have died in the mediterranean this year. our aim should be to create the conditions for migrants to live in their countries of origin, so that they do not have to make dramatic decisions on their way to europe. it is about providing the most basic of conditions: access to drinking water, a roof over your head, access to sanitation and medical care, but also to provide peace. meanwhile, the turkish military operations in syria have seen a new surge in the number of refugees in the last two weeks. the number of kurds fleeing the war has reached 176,000. the union should take immediate steps to ensure peace in northern syria. in addition, the european parliament and the eu as a whole should address the already dramatic situation of the more than three million refugees in the country and respond appropriately to human rights watch's report on the destruction of temporary refugee shelters by the lebanese army.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! there is no doubt that we are dealing with a seizure of the authority of the european union after the last decision. it seems that the interests of one country, france, are being put before the interests of the european union. macedonia meets the criteria to start negotiations and all the people in macedonia knew that. that is why the european union is simply not doing anything. well, it's a kind of a compromise, you know. we're putting our own actions at risk. it's not good for the whole european union. it is not good for north macedonia and the balkans either. ladies and gentlemen, macedonia has an open path to nato. macedonia has fulfilled many obligations to its neighbours to achieve this success. isn't there a kind of a rematch going on here? well, mrs ursula von der leyen was very much in favour of enlarging the european union, but when mr president macron's candidate didn't get the commissioner's job, perhaps it's a bad reaction. we have to be careful in these situations.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased to note that my vote has contributed in such a tangible and tangible way to the failure of this motion for a resolution prepared by mr aguilar. i am fully aware that on the one hand, the emotional kind of words - blackmail, moral, emotional words - that are coming from the left side of the room, can give the public in the european union the impression that something bad has happened. no, your honor. we have lost a resolution which was, in fact, a voice encouraging hundreds of millions of people to go to the coasts of tunisia, libya, morocco in search of a better life and from there try to reach europe. it's about driving the business of the smuggling rings. ngos are now de facto rivals to criminal groups. as minister of the interior and administration of the government of the republic of poland, i have repeatedly come across published data showing that today criminal groups benefit from human trafficking far more than from the trade in arms or drugs. it's very good that the resolution fell.
madam president! when yesterday's debate, which was heard by the speaker of the parliament of north macedonia, was filled with some rather arrogant, rather unwise voices, which gave such a testimony that it is the representatives of large states who can speak with contempt, with irony, to the representatives of small nations, small societies, in this case the slavic state of north macedonia, i was reminded of the words (historians dispute whether the author of these words was talleyrand or napoleon bonaparte), but i dedicate them to the president of france: "this is worse than a crime, this is a mistake". if france has blocked the accession of this small, proud, brave slavic nation, north macedonia, then i will quote another historical figure, winston churchill: "the balkans are the soft underbelly of europe". france, the netherlands and denmark today are leaving the balkans as the soft underbelly of europe, in the case of albania perhaps in the hands of wahhabi radicals from saudi arabia, and in the case of north macedonia in the hands of russia. that's why i voted for this resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the united nations convention on the rights of the child has profoundly changed the way our societies view children as the true rights holders. the convention has helped to both highlight the exceptional importance of children's rights and to ensure that member states and their governments recognise their responsibilities in this area. knowing full well that children's rights are human rights, we have a special obligation. we have a duty to promote and protect the rights of the child, both in our internal and external policies. first, children have the right to a childhood, to develop physically and mentally in a safe and healthy environment. they have the right to education and services that will help them become independent, happy and healthy adults. children have a right to a family life. finally, they have the right to be protected against all forms of violence, discrimination and exploitation. as we approach the 30th anniversary of the convention and appreciate all the progress made towards upholding these rights, it is also time to reflect on what has not yet been achieved. according to eurostat, children are still the age group most at risk of poverty or social exclusion. violence against children remains a real threat, both offline and online, in both social and family environments. more needs to be done to ensure that court systems address the specific needs and interests of children in their dealings with the law, and that they are subject-based rather than subject-matter. finally, as parliamentarians, we have a duty to our citizens, especially the youngest, to cooperate with the commission and the council, as well as with international organisations and with children themselves, because the voice of children should be heard.
madam president! the 30th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child is a good opportunity to ask ourselves if we are doing better at protecting children, if we are doing better at protecting lives, and if we are doing enough to improve the well-being of children. in europe, one in four children is at risk of poverty; in some countries, one in two children is at risk of poverty. i can tell you how we are working in my country to effectively tackle child poverty and exclusion. it's thanks to our programs, which the law and justice government has introduced, that poverty in poland has stopped having a child's face. between 2015 and 2017, extreme child poverty decreased from 9% to 4.7%. we've actually reduced poverty in large families. it means you can, it means you have to want to, it means you have to have comprehensive social policies that are effective in reducing child poverty.
mr president, my country, poland, was the initiator of the convention on the rights of the child. in the 30 years since it has been in operation, much good has happened and the lot of millions of children has improved, but there is still a great deal to be done and certainly one of the most pressing issues that we should also be addressing here in the european parliament is the issue of exclusion and poverty. i'm proud that the polish government, the government that i had the honor to lead, that i led, introduced effective family programs that solved the problem of poverty among children in poland, like the 500+ family program. i believe that we can also consider such effective solutions together here, and it is worth mentioning in this debate the words of my great compatriot saint john paul ii, who said that the care of a child is the first and fundamental test of the relationship between man and man.
in writing. child hunger is unacceptable in 21st century europe, but unfortunately we are still talking about a real phenomenon. it should be noted that 30 years after the entry into force of the convention on the rights of the child, child hunger still exists in some eu member states! the fundamental objective of all european politicians should be to eliminate this. this is why the hungarian government's child-feeding scheme for needy children is a remarkable achievement. today, all needy children in hungary are provided with free breakfast and lunch in schools and kindergartens. a free textbook is also a vital aid. these good practices are recommended for use across the union.
in writing. on 20 november, we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the signing of the un convention on the rights of the child. ensuring the safety, health and well-being of children is a primary responsibility for all of us. the convention specifically recognises the right of the child to protection and care necessary for the highest attainable standard of physical and mental development. ensuring that children receive adequate nutrition is an integral part of this. there is much to be done in this area, because every day, more than 200 million children worldwide do not have access to adequate food. the european union must act as one to tackle the problem, taking into account good practice in the member states. one such example is hungary, which has almost tripled its spending on social childcare in the last decade and has expanded the range of beneficiaries in a unique way. thus, nine out of ten children in the nursery and kindergarten age group now have access to childcare.
in writing. the convention on the rights of the child is a landmark document and a milestone in the approach to children, their protection and ensuring respect for their rights and their individuality. in the 30 years since its adoption, the situation of children around the world, including on our continent, has improved, but hunger, malnutrition and violence have still not been fully eliminated, and not all children have equal access to education and health care. this anniversary should not only be an opportunity to sum up what has been achieved, but also to reflect on what can be done to combat these negative phenomena once and for all. i hope that the 'children's guarantee', which was set up at the initiative of the european parliament and announced in the work programme of the new european commission under the presidency of ursula von der leyen, will be an important initiative in this area. i would also like to draw attention to our duty not only to the youngest citizens of the european union but also to express concern for children in other parts of the world, whose situation is often incomparably worse. in its development and humanitarian assistance, the european union should pay particular attention to ensuring the protection of the rights of the child and to improving their safety and living conditions.
in writing. children are among the most vulnerable members of our societies. for obvious reasons, they need special protection, and it is fitting that we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. poland has made considerable progress in this area, and it was my country that proposed the development of this instrument. this is not unusual in the country of janusz korczak, a great man who abandoned a well-paying medical practice early in the last century to devote himself to the care of children. he wrote books for them, ran an orphanage. finally, when his subjects were about to be transported to the german death camp at treblinka during world war ii, he refused the offer of rescue and remained with his nearly 200 subjects until they were all killed in the gas chambers.
in writing. in today's debate, i would like to refer to articles 28 and 29 of the convention on the rights of the child: states that ratify the convention recognise the right of the child to free primary education and that the education of the child shall be directed to preparing the child for a decent life in a free society, in the spirit of understanding, peace, tolerance, gender equality and friendship among all peoples, ethnic, national and religious groups and persons of indigenous origin. as a silesian, i would like to appeal to the newly elected polish mps to take the silesian language law seriously in the next term of the polish parliament, so that silesian children can learn it in schools and are not discriminated against by the polish education system.
in writing. 30 years since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child. sadly, despite the efforts of international organizations and the governments of some countries, many questions remain unresolved. the world bank and unicef estimate that around 385 million children worldwide live in extreme poverty, on less than $1.90 a day, and that high levels of conflict in different parts of the world leave children exposed to violence, exploitation and human trafficking. almost 14% of all migrants are under 15 years of age, and the number of unaccompanied children remains high. the united nations children's fund estimates that there are some 93 million children with disabilities in the world. many of them, including in the member states of the european union, are unable to participate fully and to function in society due to barriers resulting from the lack or inadequate adaptation of infrastructure, problems in accessing education or health services. active action and commitment to equal opportunities for disabled children is of the utmost importance. increase efforts to support children with disabilities, combat child poverty and ensure their safety. it is necessary to involve both the european parliament and national parliaments in these activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must certainly reflect on what is happening to steel. the request for this commission statement by the id group relates to the taranto site. i am a taranto woman and i know what it means to live next door to the biggest steel plant in europe, but also the most polluting one. we must therefore ask, and i ask the commission as a member of the european parliament, that it not only leave the italian government and above all the citizens and workers of taranto. to put all those european funds you mentioned into order: the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european social fund, but also the just transition fund which must be used for decarbonisation in germany, i think also in poland, but also in those sites which need to be converted industrially. i have one last point to make to my colleagues here, including the minister for economic development. we are talking about state aid which must certainly be changed, but let me say that it must not be changed to help a foreign industry, a multinational company which has signed a contract with you which you have not respected at all, which has not spent a single euro on restructuring. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the largest steelworks in europe, that of taranto, is in danger of closing down because of its inability to have an industrial policy, not only in italy but also in the whole of europe. the action plan i had prepared on steel and which the commission had approved has yet to be implemented. despite the efforts of commissioner bieńkowska, more needs to be done. we must have a real industrial policy that enables our steel industry to be competitive both in terms of reducing co2 emissions and thus producing steel that is less and less polluting, but we must also take strong action to support domestic and foreign demand. we are facing unfair competition from china, from turkey, from the countries of the former soviet union. we must therefore have strong economic diplomacy, but we must also change the rules of competition to create champions of steel, european champions of steel, because without this choice we risk being overwhelmed by the chinese superpower.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, you have outlined here the complex of issues that the commission is undertaking, but during the implementation of this beautiful programme, the częstochowa mill, for example, collapsed, and there are threats of the furnaces in polish, czech and slovak mills being shut down. this calls for immediate action. it's just all too slow. i undertook to present the substance of the joint declaration of the representatives of workers, trade union organisations and national steelmaking associations from poland, the czech republic and slovakia. what do they say? several negative factors are affecting the european steel industry and its global competitiveness: economic slowdown, but also increasing volumes of steel imports from third countries, rising costs of allowances, rising energy costs, lack of sufficient investment, especially environmental, volatile raw material prices. in short, action must be taken immediately, and i urge you to do so on behalf of those who wrote this letter to me. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask you if you share the view that emission trading rights are speculative in nature? i would like to mention the sharp rise in the price of emission allowances and the fact that the european commission has not de facto referred to this fact. the steel industry is an energy-intensive industry, heavily burdened by these regulations. do you also share the view that a restrictive policy... (the president cut off the speaker)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. the honourable member is speculative. and we know that prices just fluctuate. but regardless of the ultimate goal of protecting the environment and the negative effects, we should be able to manage this sector, and i urge you to just help. i'm not advocating protectionism, but i'm advocating protectionism. it's our duty, and it's how the public will judge us.
mr president, the union must continue to deepen its commitment to sustainability and make it a tool to protect its industry and its workers. the steel industry is a good sector to turn these words into deeds. we must protect those who invest in cleaner production and ensure that this effort continues to create and maintain jobs. the measures we have used to defend ourselves against the trump administration's protectionism or chinese industry overcapacity or monetary measures that have benefited turkish or chinese producers have proven useful. but we must go further: we must banish from europe the dirty steel, which is not produced in accordance with the strict european environmental and social standards. the union steel industry has made a huge technological, economic and personnel training effort to gain in this sustainability. let us reward this effort with a new environmental and social tariff to protect our entire industry.
mr. chairman, please! in all this politics, i miss the place for the ordinary man, who must first of all have the dignity of work, human work. in krakow, poland, arcelormittal announced the shutdown of the large kiln at the sendzimira hut. about 2,000 workers are on the ground today. it's a tragedy for them and their families. this is the result of the unwise, blind climate policy unfortunately pursued by the union. many member states cannot afford to continue to run it today because of the cost and the human tragedy. the union was founded as the coal and steel community, and we recently celebrated another anniversary. so i think that in a short time, unfortunately, there will be no coal or steel. in my province of walbrzych, we lost the mines to the steel industry because of this policy. the region still has many problems and people cannot recover from the trauma - this is mainly to warn against any future decisions of the union.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. eu foreign ministers decided in early november on the possibility of imposing sanctions on turkey over its drilling activities around cyprus. the legal framework provides for the possibility of sanctions against individual persons or entities responsible for the execution of drilling operations aimed at the extraction of hydrocarbons without the consent of cyprus in the territorial sea, in the exclusive economic zone and on the continental shelf of cyprus. the charges that may be imposed shall apply to operators that are involved in drilling in a financial, technical or material way. sanctions against individuals may consist of an entry ban and asset freezes. this is not the first round of sanctions. the eu had previously decided to reduce its aid funds and suspended air traffic negotiations. in the spirit of today's debate call for a peaceful settlement of the dispute in a spirit of negotiation. however, cyprus' right to control its territory must be fully and unquestionably respected and ankara must be called upon to stop its unlawful interference in its territory.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in bolivia (2019/2896 ((rsp)). before the debate begins, i would like to inform you that you can register as before or use the new electronic registration system to apply for the questions and blue cards. that's why you should always have your voting card with you. if you would like to register for the question and answer session, please do so now, rather than waiting until the end of the debate.
i'm closing the debate. draft resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the vote will take place at the second part-session in november. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in chile (2019/2916 ((rsp)). before the debate begins, i would like to inform you that you can register as before or use the new electronic registration system to apply for the questions and blue cards. that's why you should always have your voting card with you. if you would like to register for the question and answer session, please do so now, rather than waiting until the end of the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. in july of this year, the world health organization declared the outbreak of ebola in the democratic republic of the congo a public health emergency of international concern. the european union, which has been actively involved in aid for years, is now active in many areas of cooperation. the day before yesterday, the european commission, as we heard, approved the first ebola vaccine, a breakthrough in the prevention of this deadly disease. but i believe that it is not just about money, but about the lessons we must learn to manage resources properly, while keeping a limited financial aspect in check. i fully support the efforts to fight the disease, but independently of the right actions, i will monitor the allocation process and raise additional questions to the commission if necessary, given that on 31 october the european commission announced additional support of eur 6 million for vaccine trials under the 'horizon 2020' programme, and since 2014 alone, a total of over eur 230 million has been allocated to this purpose.
madam president, according to open door, there are currently about 100 million christians who are victims of persecution, mainly in islamic countries and north korea. recently, we have heard reports of increased persecution of christians in china: churches are being destroyed, crosses are being removed, believers are being arrested, and many priests are still in prison. three weeks ago, the authorities destroyed another church there. unfortunately, we also received bad news from france, where a bill was introduced in the parliament at the initiative of president e. macron's party, which drastically reduced the freedom of clergy to speak on moral issues and to criticize lgbt ideology. this would be a serious violation of freedom of expression and democracy. i would like to remind my colleagues of the words of robert schuman, the father of the community and its founder: the eu will be a democracy that is either christian or it will not be at all.
madam president, this year we’ve seen football at its best: a fantastic women’s world cup and fantastic european and domestic competitions, but we’re also seeing football at its ugly worst in places at the moment because, sadly, we again see headlines of racism in football. in recent weeks and months, awful scenes and incidents have taken place at international matches, at club level, in domestic leagues, at grassroots level, and unbelievably – incredibly – at junior level as well. the nature of what we see at the moment demands more of those running football, of our national associations, of uefa and of fifa. we must make sure that the institutions here in the european union, alongside our national parliaments and governments, make sure that uefa and fifa and national associations do act, and do so decisively and that, together, we get racism, hate, abuse and bigotry out of football, once and for all.
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, what do today's students think about the fall of communism 30 years ago? the works of the 30 students who entered the literary competition in the zlín region showed their knowledge of the facts and their understanding of the values that were at stake then and today. judge for yourself from a passage of the winning work by adély zábojníkové from the gymnasium in uherský brod: "at this time we are going to celebrate that it has been done. i think we should all stop and take a moment to remember the people who had to sacrifice themselves so that we could have a happy life full of joy. who knows what will be born from this year's memory. whether it's a small act or a big one, it fits into the mosaic that for 30 years has said, "thank you, we can". he walks the country in autumn like he did then. the leaves are turning, the sun is going down over the horizon, and the whole world is on fire. just as my heart burns with love, love for my family, my friends and my whole country. i close my eyes and i have one wish: that peace may continue to stay with this land. in my pocket, a set of keys rings every time i walk, and that's a clear symbol for me. a symbol that says, "thank you for the opportunity, thank you for freedom". and i thank you, adele.
madam president, two weeks ago, the tragic conditions of ten tigers were detected at the polish-belarussian border. the tigers were transported from italy to russia through europe, without any care, water or feeding. they were detected at an external eu border only because of the lack of proper entry—visa documents of the truck driver. not all of them survived. the ones which did were saved by a zoo in my constituency in poznań. this case shows a lack of efficient regulations. we need to adopt and implement regulations to monitor animal welfare in transport properly, and to stop punishing the people and institutions helping wild animals, such as poznań zoo, when transport is suspended or the animals are taken away from the animal owner.
mr. chairman, please! as recently as a few weeks ago in strasbourg, we discussed the very wrong decision, in my opinion and in the opinion of many, by france and the netherlands to deny the possibility of accession to the european union to two representatives of the western balkan countries: albania and north macedonia. what we are discussing today is the best proof that if the western balkans are left to their own devices, this crisis will only grow. i am surprised to hear voices from the left in this chamber attacking croatia for protecting the external border of the european union. the european union, which, through the irresponsible decisions of the representatives of the governments of some countries, has caused a migration crisis. the next item is the discussion of hotspots in greece on the island of lesbos. after all, this problem will continue as long as this naive rhetorical discussion encouraging de facto illegal migrants to come here continues. and that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is tragic? the best proof is that the aforementioned mayor of bihac has decided that the local government is withdrawing from any humanitarian aid to these unfortunates.
madam president! there's a lot of emotional words in this debate, a lot of words that are a kind of moral blackmail. i think it would be good, and i would particularly recommend to the members on the left of the chamber, to read the special report of the european court of auditors on 'asylum, relocation and return of migrants': it is time to act more decisively to eliminate the discrepancy between the objectives and the results achieved. the report shows that today in greece and italy, as in the whole of the european union, the number of return orders issued is much higher than the number of migrants who actually returned to their country of origin. why would you do that? most of them either escaped from the camps or they use all the tools that this naive policy puts in their hands. here i was, astonished as a young man who had been born and raised in communism to hear of the supposed benefits of this totalitarian system. when i was young, i was a sailor, and when we wanted to get away from the blinders, we'd put up a sign that said we were sailing to... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the minister, the finnish minister and the commission representative are right to repeat the words: reason, justice. yes, it is necessary, because we have to make the whole transformation in agreement with our citizens. the yellow vests in france, the farmers' protests in the netherlands, the germans who have been informed of the huge increases in electricity prices, the skyrocketing prices of garbage, do not encourage discussion about the need for even deeper analysis or change in their environment. this is important. but this solidarity and common sense is not reflected in the resolution. we are going with nothing because every other paragraph in this resolution is simply an exclusionary paragraph. we're not serious. we just make declarations, we make slogans, and we don't answer questions about how. how can we go to madrid and proudly present our position, if we don't know how to build a green order? how much money are we going to spend on this? finally, the bill announced by frans timmermans during the well, the new laws on green order. we have not yet implemented the paris agreement, the katowice agreement. it takes ambition, yes, but it also takes responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the cultural battle linked to the great objective of environmental sustainability is a correct battle and as such must be fought with intelligence and rigour, but above all with realism. shouting the climate emergency in general may make sense to some. i think it is more correct to speak of urgency, not emergency, but what i am most interested in pointing out here is that if there is one area where this battle has been handled intelligently, and won, it is europe. so european entrepreneurs do not have to pay an extra cost to achieve an objective they are already securing. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament. we emulate our companies to ensure true sustainability.
mr. chairman, please! climate change is a major challenge for the whole planet, not just the european union. it has been said that we are merely borrowing the planet and the environment from future generations. the fate of our children and grandchildren is at stake. we must be ambitious, but our ambition must be preceded by a careful analysis of the economic and social effects of our actions. if we are found to be undermining the european economy, the world will not follow us, and we will not achieve the global climate goals. we're in for a climate marathon, not a sprint. our actions must stimulate new technologies and new jobs. the ambitious just transition fund must accompany our journey towards a low- and zero-carbon economy, supporting the most vulnerable regions, those for whom the necessary transformation will be the greatest social and economic challenge, and those regions which cannot generate the necessary resources or count on sufficient support at national level on their own. five billion euros in the multiannual financial framework for the just transition fund is a good start, but over the next ten years, this funding needs to be multiplied if we are to achieve what we are debating today, if we are to be serious and effective.
member of the commission. mr president, as various members of this house and the presidency have done throughout this debate, i too would like to pay tribute to francisco gambús, who was a great european parliamentarian, a consensus-builder and a man fully committed to the development of the european union's environmental and climate policies. and i would like to convey our sorrow and grief for your loss to your family. i would also like to thank members for their continued commitment to ambitious global climate action, thereby providing additional political momentum ahead of another important cop. i have listened carefully to the debate today, and i am encouraged by the engagement of the members of this house. i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union's role as a leader in the field of international climate action. a strong and united european union message will be instrumental to continuing to deliver on our leadership during cop25 in madrid and beyond. i am convinced that the european commission and the european council, under the leadership of the finnish presidency, will contribute to the conclusion of the negotiations on article 6 of the paris agreement in order to strengthen international cooperation to reduce emissions globally. after madrid, our work must continue, both domestically and internationally. with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. we should continue prompting our partners to submit their updated nationally determined contributions and the long-term strategies of the paris agreement. thank you for the opportunity of having this debate, and i wish you every success in meeting the challenges ahead.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this has been a very interesting discussion, after the one we had last month, and i have listened attentively to your interventions. the discussion reflects the priority that the fight against climate change represents for all of us. these debates help us to shape a shared vision of the future. as we prepare for cop 25 in madrid, everyone has to be determined and i can assure you that the european union is. firstly, we want to finalise the paris-katowice rulebook in madrid. secondly, we are preparing to update our nationally determined contributions (ndcs) next year. and thirdly, we are ready to mobilise additional financial flows in the coming years, as we have heard today. i can assure you that the presidency will spare no effort to ensure that the eu will play a leading role in the work of the conference. i have participated in climate policy for quite a long time and acted both on behalf of finland and the eu in many cops. i would like to say that in terms of climate policy, the european union is at its best. with the great support from the european parliament, with the unanimity of member states and with the tireless work of the commission, we have been leading global climate action, and still we know that we need to do more – much more – and we need to do it faster – much faster. this may be the last debate that the commissioner will have with the european parliament and the council on climate issues, so i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner arias cañete in front of the european parliament. miguel, you were there when we ratified the paris agreement, you were there when we implemented it into our 2030 legislation and you were there when we agreed on the paris-katowice rulebook. i’m not saying this just because you happen to be the climate commissioner. no, i would like to thank you for your personal contribution, your good relations with the other key players – the big players in worldwide climate policy – and the personal commitment you have shown. on behalf of the council and, as a representative of the finnish presidency, my noble thanks to you. it has been an honour to work with you. i would like to conclude by thanking you again for this important debate that gives a strong background for the madrid negotiations for the commission and the council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. our goals, as set out in the paris agreement, must be more visible to the people of our cities. investing in energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions is important, but it is up to each and every person in the union to improve and deliver on our commitments. if humans understand the nature of climate catastrophe, the effects will occur at a much faster rate. so investing in green road infrastructure, funding electric cars, green start-ups are all actions that bring education and awareness. if we use green public transport every day, if we charge our green cars at green stations, the result will be to turn people into green, environmentally conscious citizens of the european union.
in writing. climate change is a global challenge. europe is taking a leading role in combating climate change and is committed to advancing progress towards a low-carbon economy to meet the goals of the paris agreement. to this end, the eu has developed a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by finding the right policy mix between ambition and competitiveness of our companies. in addition, aircraft, new cars and trucks will be subject in the near future to stricter emission limits. energy is one of the basic elements of the european economy. our aim is to ensure a stable and sustainable supply at a reasonable cost to businesses and households. at the same time, the eu faces the serious challenges of energy import dependence and high energy costs, which are damaging the competitiveness of our industries in the global economy. we believe that the future lies in the energy union.
in writing. the cop25 climate conference is the first event where the new european parliament can express its opinion on an important global issue. it is also an opportunity to advocate for responsible action that addresses the complexity of the challenge, rather than simply raising awareness. a parliament resolution that prioritises a fair and competitive transition is therefore needed. all technological solutions are needed to simultaneously tackle the climate challenge, ensure stable consumer energy prices and avoid jeopardising the competitiveness of member states. these include nuclear energy, which is essential for the countries of the central european region to produce electricity in a cheap, emission-free and safe manner. without the involvement of additional nuclear power, the transition will be much more difficult, expensive and dangerous. so by demonizing nuclear power, you're making it impossible to take successful action on climate change, which is unacceptable to me.
in writing. - mr president, madam president, i have to say that i am very pleased to see you here today. the climate change we are facing, and the catastrophic effects of it, are beyond doubt. as the european union, we need to have an ambitious climate policy that stops this change. climate policy is not, however, separate from other policies - energy, economic or social. when planning for climate action, we need to consider all aspects of the changes we are making and their consequences. the situation is particularly difficult in regions where mining and coal are the livelihood of entire families and where this industry is still important to the identity of local communities. this is the case in the region i come from in silesia. in my city, rybnik, the smog levels are enormous, threatening the lives and health of the residents. and that's for almost six months a year. we have to fight it, and we are fighting it, for example, by stopping the heating of buildings with low-quality coal, by civic education. but in doing so, we must also look to the future of those who make their living from coal mining. it is still so important that eu cohesion policy and new instruments (such as the just transformation fund) are efficient and adequately funded.
on behalf of the s&d group. today is an important day: november 25th, international day against gender-based violence. because, despite what the deniers defend, gender violence exists, and if not, let them tell it to the orphans and the orphans who lose a mother; let them tell it to the mothers who lose the greatest treasure of their lives; let them tell it to those who have seen their lives, their dreams, their future, truncated. today, to those who deny gender violence, thousands and thousands of women and men have left a very clear message in the streets of europe, they have dyed them purple and they have said very clearly: "you are not alone, we are with you". and the european institutions must also be committed to combating gender-based violence. it is indispensable. the istanbul convention against gender-based violence needs to be ratified now, because that will be the first piece of european legislation to protect women. and we also need a european strategy for equality from the future european commission. we need to lay the foundations for a clear commitment to what a more equal europe must be, a europe that protects its women, a europe that does not allow the greatest scourge that exists at the moment in europe and in the world: women who are killed for that, for being women. a final message to the political parties that deny the existence of gender violence and also to the political parties that whitewash them and negotiate with them: "we are more, we are stronger. you are not alone".
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, in europe one in three women has experienced some form of sexual violence, one in twenty has been raped and around 137 women around the world are killed every day by their partners or ex-partners. my country, unfortunately, is no exception. this year 51 women have been killed as victims of gender-based violence and, since we have official data, 1 27 have been killed by this scourge. it's not just numbers. they're names, they're lives. behind them are orphaned sons and daughters condemned to live without the support, without the love, without the caress of their mothers. and neither of his parents, who are the murderers and the executioners of his tragedy. that is why, today, on this international day against gender-based violence, we call on all the states that have not yet ratified the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument to combat gender-based violence, to do so. we are saying this to bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, lithuania, latvia, slovakia and the united kingdom. and to those countries which have already ratified it, we ask them to implement the istanbul convention in their national legislation. tomorrow we are voting for a new commission and also, with this resolution, we are asking the new commission to draw up a european strategy to combat gender-based violence and to include it in the list of ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, every three days, one woman is killed by her partner or ex-partner in germany alone. every three days – that would mean today, this thursday, and then the following sunday, and so on. not out of jealousy or because there is a family drama behind it or any other reason, but because of a murderous, toxic, violent understanding of masculinity that simply needs to be stopped. in this debate, we very often feel powerless. we feel like we cannot change this overarching problem, but actually, we can. the istanbul convention has been drafted by legal experts, scholars, politicians and psychologists because they did not want to wait any longer. i do not want to wait any longer. i have heard all the excuses that you can imagine – about definitions, about paragraphs, and about anything that you can think of. i tell all the member states of the council of europe here today, and especially the members of the european union: ratify this convention now. otherwise, at least be honest enough that you don’t care enough about violence against women. (applause)
i thank you very much, mr david. you referred to the rules of procedure. i'm afraid we didn't quite understand the article.
- i'm not going to. i am sorry to say that your motion for a resolution does not meet the formal requirements. article 39 (2) refers to a lower threshold, i.e. that this request must be supported by a political group, the committee responsible or at least 5% of members. i don't see that at the moment. that is why i cannot accept your request for a regulation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are strongly opposed to violence in any form. today's international day for the elimination of violence against women is an opportunity to highlight a few facts. in the 21st century, the rate of female genital mutilation, including female genital mutilation, is approaching 200,000 per year. the trafficking of women generates, let's see, 12 billion dollars a year. one of the main centres of trafficking in women is europe. every day, 40,000 forced marriages are made in the world, and more than 10,000 of them involve girls under the age of 15, which is de facto pedophilia. trafficking in women, rape, sexual harassment, physical and psychological abuse, all these evils happen despite the fact that it is prohibited by law. so i don't think that any more legislation is going to solve these terrible, brutal problems. the istanbul convention is not a cure for... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, every year on this day we remember that in 1999 the un general assembly proclaimed 25 november as the international day for the elimination of violence against women. but over time, we find that the phenomenon continues and expands. 137 women are murdered every day worldwide by their partner or relative, and domestic violence is increasing alarmingly, with more than 70% of the victims being women. physical, psychological, economic, verbal, sexual, cyber-violence in all its forms is the repulsive face of modern society, a downfall for the europe of values and a disgrace for western civilization. the istanbul convention is the full body of law with preventive and punitive functions and with protection for victims. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must be able to play a leading role in exerting real political pressure.
mr president, it’s nearly two decades into the 21st century and we still find ourselves in the situation where gender-based violence and domestic violence are an everyday experience for many women in the eu. ratification of the istanbul convention by the eu has been stalled for some time now due to a conspiracy theory about the so-called ‘gender ideology’, which the conservatives cynically exploit in order to scare public opinion. as progressive, responsible politicians, we must say very clearly that there is no gender ideology. justifying a lack of action to prevent and fight violence with a phoney discourse is not acceptable. gender-based violence and domestic violence are gross violations of human rights, and we must do everything to stop them, including the accession of the eu to the istanbul convention. it’s time for the european union to take a leading role in the full implementation of women’s human rights. i’m saying this as a lawyer, as a former deputy commissioner for human rights of the republic of poland, as a feminist, and as a person who has been dealing with women’s human rights for 20 years. it is time to act now.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. it is shocking that every day 137 women are killed by a family member. none of us can afford to ignore that fact. he can't keep quiet. i would like to emphasise that the polish government fully shares the values of equal treatment and non-discrimination. he opposes all forms of slavery, human trafficking, and violence. we not only oppose violence and discrimination against women, but we also effectively prosecute and punish perpetrators of such violence. the convention, in addition to the provisions with which we fully agree, also contains a number of provisions which go beyond the scope of its declared objectives. i want to believe that the assumption that the socio-cultural differences in the roles, behaviors, traits and actions of women and men are the cause of violence against women is simply wrong. i want to believe that this is not a deliberate indoctrination designed to eradicate the traditions of custom and replace them with a vision of a reduced, new man. let's eliminate the violence. let's promote equality. but we also cherish our differences. these are one of our european values.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! violence, not only against women, but against any human being is a violation of their inherent dignity. violence is contrary to the civilized and cultural norms that we europeans, by and large, consider to be right. the equality of all men with one another, the renunciation of violence in the family, in society, in the international community is the inevitable prospect of our civilization, and therefore the condition for its survival. the recent women's protests in france, as well as the global #metoo movement, show a growing awareness of this issue not only among women. i am deeply convinced that ratifying the convention and convincing the public to accept it is our urgent task as politicians, a task for a better future. that's what we're here for.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by enikő győri, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the union of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and ukraine amending the trade preferences in the poultrymeat and poultrymeat preparations provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part (10720/2019 c9-0105/2019 2019/0132(nle)) (a9-0024/2019). i would remind you that applications for spontaneous communications and blue cards can be made both through the conventional procedure and through the electronic system. an instruction is posted at the entrance to the chamber.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. let me begin by welcoming commissioner hogan, who is here as commissioner for agriculture, but as commissioner for international trade he will soon have a lot to do, i think, with ukraine and ukrainian free trade issues. fellow members, today we're going to talk about weird chicken and a legal joke. i thank the presidency of the european parliament for finally putting this subject on the agenda of the plenary. it has lessons that make me think that this is really the place for it. what exactly is this, the batman chicken? the eu-ukraine free trade agreement concluded in 2016 allows the import of ukrainian breast feathers under strict restrictions. there's a quota and there's a heavy duty on top. yes, but there are two other tariff lines in this agreement that are not subject to a quantitative limit, the tariff. at the time, the commission thought, in my opinion, that it was not a problem, that it was such a small quantity. yes, they did, but on the ukrainian side, some very clever, very shrewd people took advantage of that opportunity and used a lot of creativity to circumvent the free trade agreement. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposal is implemented in the appropriate way. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market. the commission has taken steps to negotiate with ukraine, through an exchange of letters, a solution which would bring trade back under the normal regulatory procedure by adding the two tariff lines concerned to the deregulated quota for breast-fillets and increasing the quota by 50 000 tonnes. i would also like to emphasise that the health and animal health standards were not called into question, so the union market was not threatened in this respect. in ukraine, i can tell you that the government has already approved this amendment to the agreement, and it was submitted to the parliament on november 15th. the relevant committees have already discussed it and we expect the rada plenary to put it on the agenda as soon as possible. finally, i would like to make a few requests. first, i would ask the ukrainian parliament to hold the debate as soon as possible and to contribute to the agreement. i also ask ukraine, which is an important geostrategic partner for us, we want to trade fairly with them, to act in the future according to the spirit and letter of the agreements, to apply them in good faith, not to exploit any loopholes, legal loopholes. finally, i would ask the commission to ensure that the next free trade agreements do not create a legal loophole which would allow them to be applied in bad faith. i think the commission has found a good solution, ladies and gentlemen, and i ask you to vote in favour of amending the agreement with ukraine, so that we can protect the market and our own producers.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms győri, and the shadow rapporteurs for their speedy work on this report, and i welcome the clear decision by the members of the committee on international trade (inta) to recommend that the european parliament gives its consent to this agreement reached between the commission and ukraine earlier this year. i am grateful too for the favourable opinion by the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) and i want to acknowledge the work of the rapporteur mr kuźmiuk. by giving consent to this agreement, the european parliament is once again protecting the interests of our agricultural sector. once parliament has given its consent, the council will have to adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. as i’m sure you are aware, indeed it has been outlined very well by ms győri, the ratification process by the ukrainian parliament is still pending, even though the ukrainian government agreed the agreement on 23 october last. we have been doing our best to encourage the ukrainian parliament to proceed quickly with the ratification and i hope that they will do so when parliament reassembles in ukraine next week. in view of this likelihood and given the continued urgency of this issue, we are encouraging the european parliament to give its consent this week so as to allow the completion of the ratification process from the european union side. you are all aware of the background, and this again has been outlined very well by ms győri and she has explained the sad and unsatisfactory history in relation to the poultry cuts issue. i want to assure ms győri that the european commission will have learned lessons from this trading experience. the rapid increase in imports of the poultry cut in question did raise significant concerns due to the risk of potentially unlimited duty free amounts of poultry meat coming into the european market, particularly breast meat. in order to address these concerns, the commission began consulting with the ukrainian authorities last year and the agreement was concluded earlier this year. the solution provides for the inclusion of two particular tariff lines and the existing tariff rate quotas (trq) for poultry meat products, and an increase in the size trq by 50 000 tons, otherwise we would have an unlimited amount of poultry meat coming into the european union in respect of breast meat. out-of-quota imports under the other two problematic other cuts tariff lines would be subject to the most favoured nation tariffs. under the agreement reached, ukraine is effectively accepting a limit to its exports of poultry meat into the eu, and while the increase of a quota by 50 000 tonnes is indeed substantial, it falls clearly below the current ukraine export capacity of poultry breast meat. this agreement responds to a situation which threatened to present an enormous challenge to our eu poultry producers and i know that in your respective committees you have stressed the importance of monitoring closely the implementation of this agreement, which we will do. not alone can i assure you on this point, but i also want to assure you that all of our free trade agreements (ftas) have been screened, that there are no further such loopholes relating to poultry lines involved in any previous agreements and we did not find any. we are committed fully to a continued close monitoring of the implementation of this and other ftas and also, as you are aware, we are appointing a chief technical officer in relation to trade implementation and enforcement in 2020. while i welcome your acknowledgment that the agreement reached addresses the particular loophole, i do appreciate the concerns that have been expressed at the extent of the increase in the trq. i would point out, however, that the situation in question was monitored and identified at an earlier stage precisely because of this monitoring of our ftas but nevertheless it is a substantial trq revision that has to be made in respect of this agreement. i am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this debate, to outline the background and also the action that we were taking, and also to thank again the parliament for their anticipated consent to this agreement.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for its willingness to reach an agreement with ukraine on the import of poultrymeat from that country into the union as soon as possible. while the alignment of these imports would lead to a significant increase in the import quota for this country, it would also give hope of curbing imports from outside. the committee on agriculture expects the european commission to include in the agreement with ukraine the possibility of applying safeguard measures in trade in agricultural goods. sanitary and phytosanitary requirements identical to those to be met by agricultural products produced in the union should be applied consistently to agricultural products imported from ukraine, as well as the need for ukrainian producers to comply with animal welfare requirements. at the same time, as the representative of poland, a country neighbouring ukraine, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that most agricultural goods originating in ukraine imported into the union under duty-free quotas end up on the polish market and cause price competition, which seriously reduces the income of polish farmers. this should result in additional eu support for polish agriculture.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am very pleased to have the commissioner here tonight in his actual position as commissioner for agriculture, but am looking forward as well to what is coming up in his new duties as commissioner for trade. i want to reiterate that it was not the fierce success of the ‘batman cut’ that made the eu chicken out of its commitments under the dcfta. we believe that trade is a lever for economic development and can thus help to put a chicken in everyone’s pot. yet, even if a 15-fold increase of imports of ‘batman chicken cuts’ may have followed the letter of the agreement, it was not the intent to put our domestic poultry producers under such sudden strain. therefore, i welcome this reasonable and negotiated settlement. the eu and ukraine prove once again that the way forward in international trade is through negotiation, not unilateral actions. i clearly hear you, commissioner hogan, that the commission intends to properly close the mazes of the fence in order to make sure that such loopholes no longer occur in the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the association agreement with ukraine and the dcfta are vital instruments for promoting the modernisation of ukraine and engaging it in closer cooperation. the import quotas on a number of products were set up in good faith: to lend a helping hand to ukrainians faced with the collapse of its trade with russia. the exploration of a loophole in the eu tariff system involving some ukrainian companies caused serious imbalances in our poultry sector in poland. sadly, it took the council and the commission as much as two years to effectively tackle this problem. we welcome, however, the new tariff agreement reached between the commission and ukraine. we have to remember, however, that our rules need to be more precise with regard to future trade agreements, and that the european authorities have to act more efficiently in monitoring and acting on the implementation of our agreements.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to join members to celebrate and reflect on the 30th anniversary of the revolutionary year 1989, which marked the beginning of the end of totalitarian regimes in all central and eastern europe. today’s european union is built on the ruins of the berlin wall, on the spirit of the solidarity movement in poland, on the baltic way and the velvet revolution in the former czechoslovakia. the accession of 2004 allowed us to reconcile our continent’s geography with its history and a collective wish to share its future together. i vividly recollect 1989. we, the people in czechoslovakia, wanted change. we wanted to come back to europe, and i am convinced that it was not in search of material goods. it was especially in search of its freedoms. to live in freedom was a dream we all shared in europe, but in the east it has become a reality later than in the west and the south. living in freedom requires a process of adjustment, not only to the immediate benefits of individual liberties, but also to the meaning of individual responsibility and the constant process of debate and compromise, discussion and change which is inherent in democracy. our societies are now wealthier. we live longer, we can educate ourselves better, and we have immensely better choice. our administrations are healthier when democratically accountable. through that and the checks and balances assured by independent justice, the rule of law and fundamental rights, we live in a fairer, more just society built on common values which provide liberty, security and stability for its citizens, and therefore a better life. yet, especially in times of uncertainty, there are those who peddle old lies and play to the insecurities of people. they point to a past that never was and promise a future that will never come. they say it requires the rule of a strong leader and they offer simplistic solutions to complex problems. democracy is an invincible ideal, but also a fragile system and it is certainly not a given. we need to cherish and defend our european values, to maintain europe as a resilient, assertive player standing firm on its pillars of liberal democracy, an inspiration and an example of a better way for people to govern themselves. it is naive to believe that the democratic change we made after the revolution is irreversible. democracy is a process. it has no end and it needs constant maintenance. with humility we should accept that, as politicians, we cannot protect the values alone. we need a robust and vigorous civil society and active citizens – not just consumers – to join us in our vigilance against authoritarianism and the efforts of authoritarian powers to interfere in and undermine our democracies. we need to nurture our democratic institutions and our citizens’ confidence and trust in them, and in us as part of these institutions. the greater our institutions’ resilience, an independent judiciary, law-bound and accountable legislators and executive – and also of course free media and civil society – the stronger will be our democratic and self—confident europe.
for the ppe group. madam president, 30 years is a very long time, although it may not seem so to those of us who were in the squares at the time. let me share three inspirations that have come to me from that time. first, let us realize that communism did not collapse on its own. it would not have collapsed without the thousands, maybe tens of thousands of brave people who were still spreading the ideas of democracy and freedom at that time. the second thing, in these very divided times, is to realize how great it was when most societies were united by the idea of a better future. to a future that respects important values. and let's think about how much we seem to miss that today. and finally, let's realize that we have built a rich society, but we have been less successful in building a cohesive and resilient society. we are part of a common europe, we are part of the shaping of europe, and we live in the best place in the world today. but it's also great that the past few days have shown that among young people the ideas that helped us overcome communism are still alive and willing to fight for them.
madam president, my generation is actually the last to be born in communist czechoslovakia. we were lucky to be the first to go through the transformation of our country, and we were the first to grow up in a democracy. we had new opportunities, we could study, we could see the world freely. we could say whatever we wanted. we could think what we wanted to think and be what we wanted to be. none of this was obvious to our parents' generation. i have no doubt that despite all the hiccups, our younger generation, our new democracy, has taken the right path. i'm grateful for it and i'm happy that for 30 years our children have been born in a free country. but we should remind them of how precious this gift is and how significant november 1989 was and still is to us. the moment that brought us back to the democratic part of the world, democratic europe, gradually brought us to nato and the european union. by the way, when i first came to brussels, the states were divided into the new states and the old states. it was a cliché when our central europe was perceived as an inexperienced student. i think central europe has already grown up. we've done a great job and i'd like to thank and pay tribute to all of those who stood at the beginning of this journey.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, i would like to draw attention to another aspect of the situation which has been overlooked in the context of november 1989. first of all, it should be said that the people in the squares wanted democracy, not capitalism, as evidenced by the poll of december 1989. citizens were kept alive by the november protagonists in the hope that evil would end and good would continue. instead, the way was opened for the theft of vast state property by a group of tunnel workers who still laugh at czech citizens. hand in hand with this, in many ways, our country has become a cheap monsoon with wages three times lower than in germany or austria. hundreds of thousands of executions, a million people in poverty, children whose treatment is being collected, or astronomical housing prices may not be entirely positive testimonies of 30 years of the current regime. remembering the past is possible, but the future doesn't make it any better.
madam president, i am extremely proud that we in the ep can commemorate this important anniversary today. thirty years ago, i stood in a square with many friends as a citizen of a totalitarian state, and together we tried to fight for freedom. today, we are all part of a united, free and democratic europe. for our generation, it is a miracle. it is a miracle, but it would not be possible without many victims. so let me recall and remember the hundreds of priests and religious who were forced to do forced labor in prison. thousands of peasants whose land was taken by the regime and who lived off it for the rest of their lives. or 270 people executed for wanting to go to another country and were shot on the iron curtain. no, communism is not a fairy tale where everyone gets what they need. it's a criminal ideology that has destroyed the lives of half of europe. let's make sure that this time doesn't come again out of respect for those victims.
madam president! thirty years ago, a strong wind of change swept over our continent. the biggest peaceful coup in post-war europe has begun. it was a historic opportunity, fueled by human solidarity. many events come to mind as symbols of that period, such as the round table where representatives of the opposition solidarity and the government side in poland sat, the fall of the berlin wall, in the velvet revolution of czechoslovakia, the sight of karel gott, the socialist regime's favorite, singing to hundreds of thousands of protesters gathered in prague's wacław square. in 1989, the citizens of central and eastern europe made a conscious choice, they chose freedom and democracy, they chose europe. today, communism is no longer a threat to us, but extremism is. when we open the newspapers, we read that the judges of the courts are being removed by politicians, the media is controlled by the government, so we cannot passively accept how some of the governments are trying to destroy what we have done. we must remember that democracy is not given once and for all, that democracy is like a beautiful flower nurtured blooms, neglected withers.
madam president, on every occasion the european union and its parliament, their governments, are throwing anti-communist parties to speed up the implementation of their anti-communist plans based on the provocative and dangerous resolution of september. anti-communist measures, persecutions and the reversal of historical truth are a prerequisite for the escalation of the anti-people attack in order, without the hotel owner, to have free reign to claim that there is no other way but capitalist barbarity. the intervention of the communists proves that the people can live without poverty, without unemployment, without work-ticket, without imperialist wars, refugees, without health/education/housing-commodities, without capitalist exploitation. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. we are confident that the people will eventually find their way, by fighting on their own, with strong communist parties, to seize power.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i cannot resist and would like to say my final word in my native language, which is also the language of the playwright, writer, dissident václav havel, who wrote the script for a free country for us, the czechs and slovaks. we didn't always play by the script. i think it's always time to reflect on how we've used democracy and freedom and whether we've worked hard enough on it, because democracy and freedom have to be worked on. it's not an automatic thing. i was very moved when some of you here spoke about how you remember 1989 and that it was something of a miracle. i also remember the euphoria that came when we understood that we were finally going to get rid of a totalitarian regime that had distorted morality, that had forced me, for example, to really think seriously about how i would explain to my six-year-old son that he shouldn't say outside what he hears at home. a lot of other things we've gotten rid of, maybe worth reminding you of. it's not true what we hear today when we remember the 30th anniversary or when we remember the revolution, that communism collapsed on its own. it's not true. we were, i personally was not, but many people were persecuted, very courageously opposed the regime, many people gave their lives. i think we are all committed today to not wasting those victims and to continue that work, hopefully under peaceful and democratic conditions. let's look to the future. the way we analyze the present, we see that we have problems in europe. i will be the vice-president of the european commission, if you support the new commission, responsible for values and transparency, responsible for values such as democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, of course, human rights, freedom of the media and the promotion of an active civil society. i think we have to work through all this, we have a lot of problems in europe, we have a sudden return to the principle in many people's minds that the winner takes all after the election. we're starting to get the idea that whoever lies the best wins the election, whoever has the most dirty money and uses the most dirty methods, including the use of digital proceeds, wins the election. we have a number of new warning trends here that are relevant to the media and the business model for independent media that are reporting that they are having great difficulty sustaining themselves. these are all things that we're going to have to work on together, and i'm prepared, of course, to put my hand to the work in my new position. i think we all have a duty to ensure that some elections in europe do not happen to be the last ones, and we have a duty to ensure that people can rely on that. at the same time, i must conclude by saying that we must also work hard to ensure that the citizens of the european union are with us in this endeavour, that they understand what we are doing and why we are doing it, when we are working for democracy, freedom and human rights. so that we don't end up like the proverbial stake in the fence and the czech colleagues know what i'm talking about. we must explain, but we must also do a lot to make people in europe feel like they are in countries where they have their security, where they do not have to live in constant fear of the future. we know that our society today is really shaken by a great deal of insecurity and a sense of injustice. i'm afraid that people who are threatened with execution, people who calculate that our gross domestic product is rising but the poverty rate is staying the same, working parents who can't afford to pay their children a decent life, all these people may not be so eager to think about why it is necessary to fight for democracy, human rights and all those noble principles. i think we have a lot of work to do on many fronts and i would like to see us, together with the european parliament, working in the right direction. i'm personally prepared to do that.
the reality of the last few decades clearly contradicts the triumphalist proclamations that followed the defeats of socialism in eastern europe. capitalism not only proves incapable of solving the problems facing humanity, but it tends to aggravate them to the point of calling into question humanity's very existence. the defeats of socialism have not changed the essence of capitalism, but have made its unjust and inhuman nature more evident. europe and the world have not been made safer, on the contrary. the 'new world order' proclaimed by imperialism has brought war, and this is a threat that permanently weighs on the workers and peoples. contrary to what we were assured, history did not end thirty years ago. although it continues to be written and rewritten to suit the interests of the dominant economic and political interests - and this debate is a good demonstration of this - those who announced the end of the class struggle have confused wishes with reality. some of mankind's most prodigious endeavors have required time, advances and retreats, victories and defeats. so will the building of a new society, free from all forms of exploitation and oppression, a land without masters. it's not capitalism, but socialism and communism, the future of mankind.
in writing. thirty years ago, the peoples trapped behind the iron curtain finally succeeded - something their grandparents, their parents, could not even dream of: to break down the wall of communism that was declared unbreakable. call it the fall of the berlin wall, the velvet revolution, or the revolution, the fall of communism in poland, the czech republic, hungary and east germany marked the beginning of a new era. at the same time, it is sad that to this day - 30 years after the fall of communism and 75 years after mass deportations to the gulags - the horrors of communism are still disproportionately underreported. but the communists ruined the whole life of our grandparents' generation, stole their scenes, there was no family behind the iron curtain that did not suffer the horrors of communism. so it is sad that western europe still refuses to give proper weight to the crimes of communism. this period in central and eastern european history must be known and kept alive in order to understand the reality of post-communist nations today. the people of central and eastern europe have a strong commitment to independence and freedom, which they have had to fight hard for even in the history of the 20th century. they did it in 1956, 1968, and 1989.
in writing. today we pay tribute to the carpet revolution in czechoslovakia. unfortunately, bloody revolutions followed, such as the one in december 1989 in my country, romania. communism was defeated in the countries of the east, with sacrifices, at the cost of the lives of our fellow citizens. we have won the rights and freedom of movement, freedom of expression, the right to choose, but we still have a lot to do in terms of improving the lives of european citizens in eastern european countries. the eu must fight to ensure that there is no reason to return to communism. eastern countries, citizens need a safe life in their country. the european institutions must treat all european citizens equally and fairly, regardless of the country in which they live. i want to pay tribute to the heroes of my country and in their memory, but also on behalf of the citizens of my country. i will fight for european values and principles, based on respect for human rights. i will continue in this mandate to fight for equal treatment, no double standards, a decent standard of living and security for all citizens.
in writing. the velvet revolution and the fall of the berlin wall, which we are celebrating on their 30th anniversary this year, are two of the defining moments in the history of 20th-century europe and symbols of its reunification. in commemorating those events, however, let us remember that the beginning of the transformation that ultimately led to the fall of the iron curtain was initiated a few months earlier in poland, during the round table and the elections of 4 june 1989. the political changes that were taking place in europe at the time, known colloquially as the autumn of nations, gave a major impetus to the process of european integration, leading to both its expansion and its deepening. on the one hand, german unification opened the way for the new member states of central and eastern europe, including poland, to join the communities. on the other hand, the signing of the maastricht treaty and the establishment of the european union marked a new stage in the process of creating an ever closer bond between the peoples of europe. so, while we cherish the memory of all these past events, let us remember that they should inspire the member states to work out an agreement and find in the near future an effective way to achieve the vision of a united europe.
madam president! the young people who listen to our debate and are mentioned in every fiery speech do not expect us to be hysterical, to wear t-shirts with slogans similar to theirs, or to preach and write slogans on cardboard boxes. they're expecting action. that's why they chose us. they need a guarantee of safety. when is that possible? when we honestly state each problem, when we are honest and truthful about how long it will take to achieve the goals we set for ourselves, and how much it will cost. i am therefore pleased that both climate change and the multiannual financial plans will be discussed by the council under the new presidency. but i would ask that we analyse what has worked and what has not, that we examine the potential of each country, including the reduction potential, and finally that the council find out how frans timmermans will write a new climate law in 100 days. it's been announced, nobody knows what it looks like, and you have to put money into it.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the adoption of the resolution on the rights of the child because i think it is a very well-prepared, comprehensive document. children are our greatest treasure and they will determine the future of the world. it is our duty to protect them from the effects of war, hunger, poverty, slave labor and abuse, and to ensure that they have access to education and health care. i am pleased that the resolution stresses the importance of investing in children, a holistic approach to education, the availability of nursery and pre-school facilities, promoting the harmonious development of the child in all its dimensions and combating all forms of discrimination. children with disabilities, who have already experienced their fate, are often victims of discriminatory education and employment systems. and our job is to change that. i am convinced that the resolution adopted today will be the starting point and the guideline for the european parliament's future action on behalf of children.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. i am very pleased that so many people are listening to this debate in the galleries, representatives, i think, from all over europe. i'm very happy to see so many young people. because this is where the big words about the need for savings were spoken. it was also said that we were the first parliament to negotiate this difficult compromise in this composition. and because this difficult compromise was negotiated on time for the first time - well, maybe not the first time - but unlike in previous years, we can say that we will save a considerable amount of money. and that is why we must say that this budget is a satisfactory budget for us. i would like to stress in particular - and this is also due to the large number of young people who have come together - that this budget provides new instruments and new opportunities to support, for example, the fight against youth unemployment. there's extra money in that budget. and something that i, as a representative of poland, am particularly happy about, and i emphasize my national origin here, because in poland erasmus+, an exchange project that serves young people during their studies, is a very popular program. and that is why i can say that as the cor we will support this budget tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for some reason, the processes in parliament and the negotiations with the council are always very complicated when it comes to money. i have sat up late at night a few times in my years in this parliament to try to find some sort of solution to this. it looked rather threatening this time too, perhaps partly because of what we also sometimes have reason to call 'finnish stubbornness'. we also know that this round of negotiations was particularly important, as the previous speaker also pointed out, because this is a bridge between two different budgetary frameworks. it might have been quite unfortunate if that bridge had been built with very weak and bad means. the negotiators have now, however, managed to achieve a clear improvement, which i am grateful for, and which may serve as a bridge for a future budgetary policy which meets all the requirements we have every reason to make in the future.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteurs, ms monice hohlmeier and mr eider gardiazabal rubial, the finnish presidency, the commissioner and all those involved in the elaboration of this difficult compromise. when i left the council building at midnight on friday after nearly 13 hours of negotiations, we had not reached a consensus. i think like many of the delegation members, we thought it was quite realistic that we would have to operate in 2020 on a monthly basis. the commission is particularly pleased with the compromise and consensus reached, which for the first time has been supported by such a broad cross-section of the political groups in parliament. the consensus, where we managed to agree a record of almost half a billion euros of additional funds and even more relocations within the budget, to the agreed almost 169 billion euros to actively finance the protection of the environment, including climate, to which we allocated 21% of all funds, actively supported the just transformation of coal-dependent regions, the fight against youth unemployment, the erasmus+ student and young practitioner exchange programme, the development of the european digital market, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, including particularly important research supporting the treatment of people with cancer. the consensus on the 2020 budget is also important because next year will be the reference year for the multiannual financial framework until 2027. the budget also includes two million euros for the innovative darknet monitoring project that i and the experts have proposed, and i thank everyone for supporting this initiative.
madam president! could this budget have been better? it could have been. more courageous? it could have been. could he have been more visionary? it could have been. could we have had more money? we could have. but as has been said, we were able to reach a last-minute consensus between the groups. and that is the extraordinary power of the european parliament that we have. and it was a great negotiating team led, importantly, by two strong, brave women who led us to this good budget. for me, as a social democrat, it is important that there is more money in this budget to fight climate change, that there is money to ensure that, for example, in a country like poland, 45,000 people do not die every year just because they breathe polluted air, that there is more money to fight unemployment among young people. there are regions in europe where 50% of the unemployed are young people. we deserve a better budget with a real vision. and i leave that task to the next parliament and to future negotiators as good as the present ones.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 27 november 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs, ms monice hohlmeier and mr eider gardiazabal rubial, the finnish presidency, the commissioner and all those involved in the budgetary work. the council and the european parliament reached an agreement on the eu budget for 2020 on 18 november. the total commitment appropriations will amount to eur 168,7 billion. that's a 1.5% increase over last year. the total payment appropriations will amount to eur 153.6 billion, an increase of 3.4% on the previous year. the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes is still in full swing. thanks to our budget compromise, the beneficiaries will receive their payments on time. we want and support growth and competitiveness, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the eu's budget for the period 2007-2013 was eur 76.3 billion, of which eur 76.3 billion was for the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef) and eur 76.2 billion for the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef). erasmus+ will receive eur 2.9 billion (+3.6%) for youth exchanges, which benefit many young people, including those from my country. the 2020 budget can be called a youth-friendly budget, as €145 million has been allocated to the 'youth employment initiative' in the regions most affected by unemployment.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu response to extreme weather events and their effects: how to protect europe's urban areas and their cultural heritage? (2019/2932(rsp))
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! i think we have to start by telling venice here and now that we are with her and we will support her. the commissioner showed the mechanisms that are already in place in the european union and that can be used. and he declares his total commitment. it was mentioned that it would be worthwhile to set up a committee to analyse the review. yes, we need to see how these mechanisms work and how to improve them to better prevent. i'm a little concerned that my colleagues and my friends are confusing the situation in venice with climate change. all you have to do is know the history of venice to know that every 10, 20 years, this situation repeats itself. even in the 19th century works of art, for which we are responsible as citizens of europe and the world, you can find such evidence. i also want to remind you that it was in venice in 1966 that the preventive decision was made to build a dam complex. this construction has been going on since 1985 and is never ending. it's always accompanied by environmental protests. not to mention the discussions that have been going on in recent years about the use of the money allocated to this project. let's move. let's have some respect. let's be responsible for civilization.
madam president! unfortunately, violent weather events are becoming more and more of a challenge. the situation in venice, which has been followed with concern by the whole of europe in recent days, has shown us very clearly how important it is to ensure adequate protection against such events. this is why it is so important to develop an appropriate adaptation strategy to climate change and to provide the necessary infrastructure to protect against or mitigate the negative effects of such phenomena. i would therefore like to recall that the european regional development fund, which is currently being negotiated with the council and the commission, provides, among other things, the possibility of financing measures to adapt our regions to climate change and to increase their resilience to natural disasters. however, to be effective, it needs to be appropriately budgeted, which i hope will be taken into account in the final cohesion policy budget.
madam president! a report published in april this year by the european environment agency shows that all member states, including my own country, poland, have suffered the most damage from floods over the last 20 years, amounting to tens of billions of euros. however, the recent deeply moving images of venice flooding clearly show that despite these many experiences and warnings, we in europe are still not adequately prepared for the consequences of extreme weather events. the member states alone are not able to deal effectively with the effects of the elements. as a result, not only our priceless cultural heritage is at risk, but also human life. with this in mind, i believe that the new commission should mobilise additional resources and coordinate appropriate action at union level to minimise the negative effects of floods and storms in the future. i'm glad to see that the commissioner's announcements are moving in that direction.
madam president! i think that the fact that the representatives of poland are taking the floor in this procedure of applications from the hall is such a symptomatic sign, because there is such a polish word, but the word that the whole world knows, that word is "solidarity" and i think that in this topic in which we are now discussing, the key word should be the word "solidarity". today we are all with the people of tirana, with the people of albania, who were affected by the earthquake. yesterday we were with the people of venice, and before that we were with the people of sweden. and here i have a personal connection, when, at the invitation of mr czesław hoc, mep, as minister of the interior and administration, i opened an exhibition here in strasbourg depicting this polish solidarity, when polish firefighters went to sweden to help. it seems that we should also today lean on those who are always at the side of the citizens in these extreme situations: the firefighters, the police, the medical services - and we should support them as representatives of the european parliament.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr commissioner, two years ago there were major fires in split, a city which this year celebrates 40 years of being inscribed on the world heritage list as one of the first monuments to be included by the republic of croatia on this prestigious list. thanks to the work of this parliament, thanks to you, mr. stylianides, who came and worked with us, our national party has achieved an improved civil protection mechanism, now has an instrument where we can prevent the damage that is happening in paris, and in venice, venice city of beauty that is why unesco has set up its office to control weather changes. i call on this parliament to support my initiative to declare a european fire protection day and on this parliament to start using the civil protection instrument, an improved mechanism that has been worked on so much and for which we have allowed funds to be allocated and now to use this instrument as much as possible so that these prestigious places like split, like venice and paris are forever protected and preserved for generations to come.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for this really very productive discussion. i would like to say that, once again, recent events in venice show us that climate change is real, is happening now and is not fake news. so, at the same time, we need two approaches: a strategic approach called the paris agreement on climate change and, of course, prevention and preparedness. what we tried to do in the former commission was what ms zovko has already said, resceu, and thank you so much for your kind words. yes, we tried to establish and to upgrade the european civil protection mechanism through resceu in order to deal with natural disasters efficiently and effectively. but we have only taken one first step. we need more and more. so it’s your responsibility, as the european parliament, to go beyond, as we have already done as the former commission. thank you so much for your support. it is a common achievement, but my sincere advice, through the last five years of experience, is that you have to go beyond the first step in the resceu field. otherwise, we will face a lot of problems because the new phenomena due to climate change is so complicated and complex. nobody can deal with this phenomena alone because it is so complicated. at the same time, many of you already insist on solidarity. yes, solidarity is the fundamental principle for our union and this is why, now, some rescue teams, through the eu civil protection mechanism, are running and are in action in albania in order to save lives. i’m really proud of these institutions because the european union can provide solidarity in very difficult circumstances. at the same time, i would like to take this opportunity to say more about our eu initiatives that will help us address the challenge over the years to come. first, disaster risk management is vital, in particular for our cohesion policy. local and regional authorities are the first to face the impact of disasters. investing in risk management is cost-effective; it prevents future losses and it contributes to sustainable development. over the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy is investing almost eur 2 billion in climate change adaptation and risk prevention. as i said, prevention is the main focus of our investment, with actions to improve the modelling of risk, early warning systems, the preparation of strategies and guidelines, etc. in this period we have also seen a large focus on green infrastructure to manage risks. furthermore, under the urban agenda for the european union, the partnership on climate adaptation coordinated by the city of genoa is implementing ten actions to anticipate climate change and take appropriate measures to prevent or minimise the damage it can cause to urban areas. the commission has also launched the european natural hazard scientific partnership, a network of scientific european institutions and international organisations that monitor natural hazards. they are ready 24/7 to support the european commission and our emergency response coordination centre. besides prevention, we also focus on preparedness with support for equipment, infrastructure and training of civil protection units. we offer flexibility in our programmes. programme amendments can be proposed and swiftly agreed to shift resources towards areas that are most in need. so, if changes need to be made, we can still do this within this funding period. the second point is that we are promoting initiatives to mitigate the impact of climate change on cultural heritage. that is in particular the case with the support of the horizon 2020 programme with climate action, mitigating the impacts of climate change and natural hazards on cultural heritage. at the initiative of the commission, 27 european countries agreed to work closely together to advance the digitisation of europe’s cultural heritage in a declaration of cooperation launched in april 2019. the commission has also been funding the use of digital technologies for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage. the latest initiative includes a future european competence centre for the preservation and conservation of european cultural heritage by using ict technologies, under horizon 2020 once again. the intersection between cultural heritage and climate change has also been under the spotlight during the european year of cultural heritage 2018 with the report ‘safeguarding cultural heritage from natural and man-made disasters’. in the same vein, the european framework for action on cultural heritage includes a focus on protecting cultural heritage against natural disasters and climate change. in 2021, a group of experts from eu member states will analyse and share innovative policy measures for heritage sites to mitigate the impact of climate change. with the support, of course, of horizon 2020, the commission is investing some eur 18 million in this field. so the list of what the european union is doing to protect our communities against the disastrous impact of natural disasters, but also to preserve our cultural heritage, is long. no doubt much more remains to be done. i know and am sure that we can count on your support and your initiatives in order to be more effective and more efficient. thank you so much for your attention and for this very constructive discussion.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the commission statement on public discrimination and hate speech against lgbti persons, including lgbti-free zones (2019/2933 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to speak to you about the development in poland, as regards the lgbti community. i would like to express my strong concerns on this. as you know, the european commission has been closely monitoring the developments and the accounts of recent events that have reached to the commission are very worrying. particularly last july an equality march organised in the polish city of białystok that was intended to be peaceful was met with an avalanche of verbal and physical violence and hate speech directed at the participants. lgbt free zone stickers were distributed by a polish newspaper. moreover, several polish regional and local authorities have adopted declarations, statements or resolutions, banning lgbti community postulates as an ideology, and declaring their territories ‘lgbt unwelcome’. all this is occurring in a climate of rising anti-lgbti rhetoric in the run-up to the polish parliamentary election that took place last month. the european commission strongly condemns these developments. any form of discrimination, intolerance or violence based on sexual orientation, gender identity or sex characteristics, goes against the fundamental values of the european union that are founded in article ii of the treaty. in addition, article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has the same legal values as the treaties, prohibits any discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and sex. some of the polish authorities that have adopted anti-lgbti resolutions, declarations or statements, are managing authorities or beneficiaries of operational programmes supported by the eu structural and investment funds, and on 23 october this year, the commission met with polish authorities in the framework of an annual review meeting of the regional operational programmes that are financed or co-financed by the european regional development fund and the european social fund and we stressed the need to respect eu law, including the charter, in the implementation of these programmes, particularly the principle of non-discrimination. by issuing anti-lgbti resolutions, declarations or statements, polish managing authorities and beneficiaries of the eu structural investment funds raise doubts of their ability to ensure respect of the charter. the commission will continue to monitor the situation in poland, and we will engage with poland to make sure incidents of this kind never happen again. discrimination, violence and hate speech against the lgbti community must be stopped in the european union. thank you very much for this possibility to have the debate. i’m looking forward to your questions.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the darkest days of politics are back. once again, he's dividing society by inventing enemies, by creating threats that don't exist. the mechanism is simple and old as time: point to a trait, whether it's religion, skin color, sexual orientation or wealth. then you get all cocky, you start making up uncreated lies. to inspire fear and hatred. and finally, to show yourself as the only savior from this imagined evil. that's how populists, nationalists and nazis work. we must stop them hard, because at the end of this road is death, civil and religious wars, death camps. that's what hatred does. today, the hatred of the ruling class and their supporters has been directed at non-heterosexuals. they invented a new enemy, and they called it the lgbt ideology. except there's no such thing. these people are trying to tell us that homosexuality is contagious, that if we tell our children in school that there are gays and lesbians in the world, then those children will give up their heterosexuality. it's unbelievable, but it's working, and hate is growing, and there's a surge of hate crimes based on sexual orientation. the government is banning sex education because in a society with a conscience, they would be wiped out with their hateful propaganda. hate and homophonic hate speech kills. recent studies show that in poland, about 70% of lgbt teenagers have suicidal thoughts, and half have symptoms of depression. let us stand up for the most important values - not just european but human in general. human dignity is a universal value. it benefits everyone equally, regardless of race, religion, age, creed, nationality or sexual orientation. human dignity is man's most precious possession, a natural and inviolable right. no individual, no group, no government, no state, no one, can change that, much less abolish it. there is no such thing as lgbt ideology. non-heteronomic people are ordinary, normal people who deserve dignity and respect on an equal basis with everyone else, unconditionally, just like us and everyone else.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. homophobia in poland is spreading like a disease, and i salute the polish activists who are with us today, and who are fighting to have their cry for help heard. lgbti people are increasingly exposed to hate speech and hateful acts because they are simply increasingly tolerated and accepted in public, cultural and political discourse. it is a shame that in poland almost 90 local communities have already declared themselves free of lgbti ideology. young people are suffering, suicides are on the rise, and such unacceptable choices are a reflection of the general climate in the country, some of which are strongly pushing to suppress the right to free choice of partner and the right to abortion. and here i also point the finger at the polish organization ordo iuris. but it doesn't stop with poland, the authorities' reaction in hungary was inadequate, with homophobic violence, more and more verbal and physical attacks on members of the lgbti community are reported from germany, from the united kingdom, from finland, from lithuania, and also from the middle, unfortunately, it doesn't have to be too far from home, we recently witnessed a new attack on the lgbti club in ljubljana. and how dare anyone interfere with people's lives just because they love differently. when will we as a society realize that embracing difference and diversity is what makes us stronger? homophobia, discrimination and hate speech have no place in my europe, and i call on all of us, the european parliament, the european commission and the council, to condemn once and for all the violence against the lgbti community across europe and to commit ourselves to working to increase their legal protection.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, incidentally, i note that the council is absent; that part of the house is also absent, while it is largely about them. but clearly they have got more important things to do. the polish government party, law and justice, how ironic, is calling lgbti people a threat to the polish identity, the polish nation and the polish state. it has actually declared lgbti people to be an enemy of the people and it is proposing, or encouraging, lgbti- free zones. in the meantime, indeed as tanja fajon has said, 70 villages and cities have declared to be an lgbti free zone. difference – that is not just discrimination. there is a word for this policy. if you want to eliminate, erase a whole part of the population, there is a word for that, i am not going to name it here. it is not just discrimination and we should go much further than just condemning it; it is a violation of human rights and a violation of international law and it has no place in the european union, it has to stop.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the map that i’m holding up here is a map of poland, and you can see the areas of poland where lgbt free zones have been declared by the local councils. imagine for one moment you are growing up in one of these regions as a young gay, lesbian or transperson. you are already lost. as it stands, being a teenager is never easy, and especially not if you’re lgbti. you probably have a lot of questions, some of which you might not want to discuss with your parents, but in your school you cannot discuss it with anyone because your teachers are not supposed to talk to you about this. then your city council unanimously approves a motion that states that you are against the law of nature. that the way you love, or the way that you are is threatening so-called christian morality and family. how would you feel? alone, abandoned, scared. already lgbti youth are at the highest risk of attempting or committing suicide inside of the european union. these declarations are fuelling a problem that has already cost far too much hardship in european families, and we here in this parliament we have to be the voice telling these young people - you are not alone, you are not wrong, you might be different, but that’s okay. you have rights and we, as the european union, will stand up and defend them here in this parliament, and we are there for you. we cannot accept such an attack on european values and fundamental rights in this union and this is why more than this resolution that we have to adopt, we have to make this part of the article 7 procedure against poland because this is going beyond anything that the european union stands for. and lastly, i was raised and baptised as a roman catholic. the jesus that i learned about in my church, was not preaching hatred, he was preaching the exact opposite. he was not telling his followers to go with pitchforks against anyone who is different. he was preaching love, and we should bring exactly the same to the people who are marginalised today, and not use our christianity against them (applause). so please, let’s stand up for these young lgbti people in poland.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. let's talk about the facts. lgbt activists have turned provocation into their most powerful weapon. their numerous marches in poland have often been marked by acts of discrimination and open violation of the religious feelings of millions of christians. the desecration, the desecration, the attempt to desecrate perhaps the most sacred image for christians, which is the image of the mother of god. isn't that discrimination and hate speech? after all, such acts encourage further brutal attacks on christians, assaults on priests, and the lying of holy symbols to catholics. you should know that in 2018 alone, there were 1,063 in france. why has parliament not had the courage to debate this? the "lgbt-free zone" label was posted after an ikei employee was fired for quoting scripture when he refused to participate in a rally in support of lgbt pride month, despite having the full constitutional right to do so. the newspaper that published the sticker was subjected to censorship and persecution. they've raided newsstands, threatened vendors and journalists. such a wave of persecution in poland has not occurred since 1989. so let's talk in the european parliament about the scale of hate, the scale of your hate. madam president! your highness! i'm all for mutual respect, because everyone has dignity. but you cannot be silent when an aggressive minority ideology, demanding the flags of privilege for itself, at the same time slanders those who have a different opinion. you'll have to take that into account. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to ask first of all, is criticism of the government in poland and criticism of the letters close to the government partly co-financed by citizens' taxes and promoted, is this anti-polish action? because i see a few poles and poles who feel attacked by this monstrous discriminatory action against the environment, who are clearly in a minority in poland. second, we are also catholics in this room, and the use of the rainbow is not offensive to catholics. the rainbow halo of the virgin mary is not offensive to many catholics in poland and i would ask you not to use such words referring to attacks, brutality, sacrilege and so on, because it is simply not true when it comes to polish society. i'm sorry that this debate is turning into a polish-polish debate, but we have to correct this false image of poles that the ruling party gives us here from time to time. i wonder if that's the official position of the ruling party that a member of parliament, a former minister from that party, just said?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. dear mep, i would like to thank you for your support. i want to say clearly and clearly that there are many christians sitting here, but we know that faith cannot be put into a relative perspective. and it can't be that next to that rainbow that you mentioned, and the image of the virgin and her coronation, it's already over 300 years since the coronation of the image. there was no rainbow in that picture, and i don't remember any rainbow in that picture. it was a direct provocation. and the second thing. if the image of the mother of god in one of the events in gdańsk is placed in the background of the vagina, how is this not discrimination against christians? it's too bad there's a polish-polish war going on here. i'm ashamed of it, but we didn't cause it.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. this is not a debate about poland, but it is a debate about what is happening in poland right now. what is happening is no longer a form of discrimination, as a colleague said earlier here, but persecution. we have local and regional representatives and parliaments adopting declarations and programmes when they talk about "lgbtq-free zones" and stipulate that only christian, heterosexual relationships should exist. and i quote in english: we express our disapproval and disagreement for attempts to promote lgbt ideology, which is against natural law and against our long traditional values and our christian morality. this is a form of persecution for me. in particular, these anti-lgbtq forces want to use the school as an institution and forbid it to promote the human rights of lgbtq people or the right of young people to a free sexuality. i think most people in this room and most people listening to us at home also understand how dangerous it is for many of us when public officials and parliaments speak out and then legitimize a kind of hatred and a kind of oppression like this. it's simply too dangerous. instead of being a safe place for all young people, school is being turned into a dangerous place. what comes after this? burning witches? persecution of nonbelievers? i sure hope not! it's time to stop. to my lgbtq siblings from poland, some of you sitting up here, i just want to say: you are not alone, we will stand with you, and together we will push back these forces.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 'united in diversity' is the motto of the european union, but decades later we are in this house defending the fundamental rights of citizens, rights which should be universally recognized. the far right might want to rewrite the universal declaration of human rights, adding that those rights apply to many, but not to all. today we even talk about "lgbt-free zones", tomorrow we may not recognize the rights of those with blond hair, of those who are women, of those who are so tall. history seems to repeat itself, but it does repeat itself in the darkest pages of our history. do you remember the concept of judendfrei? are we preparing for a new nazism? the drift of events is alarming, the climate of hatred can be felt. you hate anyone who is different, for race, for religion, for nationality, for sexual orientation. but these are excuses, these are excuses used by those who want to channel this hatred for propaganda purposes. i wonder: is this the europe we want? is this the future we want for ourselves and our children? that is certainly not what i want and i ask all of you in this house today to send a strong and clear message: we will not tolerate attacks on and restrictions on anyone's fundamental rights! we want to rewrite history, but the good one!
madam president, i’ve got news for mr krah and ms kempa: lgbti people exist in poland, they exist in your town, they exist on your street. and they have every right to be proud of their country like you are, they have every right to be a part of the community like you are, and you have no right whatsoever to exclude them. the other week we had to listen to a long and tedious rant from mr legutko about how social engineering was occurring in the european union on a scale that you would find in communist countries. you would think that someone who bravely fought communism would be aware of the grim irony that under communism lgbti people were persecuted against and, in some cases, executed. the words that we use in this place matter. it is important that we recognise the hatred that is out there. the rise in homophobic attacks across the european union, and the fact that in poland since the start of 2019, 87 localities have declared themselves to be lgbt-free. i’ve got news for you: they’re not lgbt-free, and we stand with the people in those communities. but i wish to ask the commission: since 2009 lithuania has had a law which is being used to censor and silence lgbti. the lgbt+ organisation lgl appealed to the commission, saying that lithuania was in breach of its fundamental obligations under eu law. what is the commission’s response to this? when will action be taken? and can we expect lgbti rights to be a fundamental part of upholding the values of this place which we hold so dear, and which are clearly under attack from people in this very room. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. i hope you've been listening to my speech. and show me where in this speech i denied people of different sexual orientations the right to live on my street or in my city. i'll tell you more, i know people like that and i think that every person like that has human dignity and that dignity should be respected. it's just that these people with different preferences that i know, they don't shout and they don't participate in demonstrations where they insult christians. and i have never in any of my statements denied my right to live with you. that's the first thing, so please don't tell me that. i'm all for the truth.
madam president! i speak as a pole on behalf of millions of poles who want to live in a country where there is mutual respect and tolerance. i speak for mothers who mourn the loss of their children who took their own lives because they couldn't stand the hate speech, the hatred that comes from being of a different sexual orientation. i speak for the poles who cannot accept that the prosecutor is stalling the trial against those who hung portraits of meps on the gallows. i speak as a catholic who does not have a mouth full of commandments for political purposes, but who tries to live by the decalogue, and one of the commandments says, "love thy neighbor as thyself". ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, we should understand history and remember what hatred has led to, what the creation of jewish-free zones in nazi germany has led to. this story is bloody and tragic and i hope it never happens again. nor can i agree as a former local government official, as an open person, that anyone in any country should pass resolutions that create places free of any social group. we should respond. no modern country should ever agree to hate speech, to hate speech, to hate speech. tolerance should be the cornerstone of every modern state and every modern society. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you a question, because you speak very nicely about values and generally what you can agree with. but since we're in a serious room, i'd like to ask for details. can you point to a specific case (documented) where the activities of a member of the polish government led to the suicide of an lgbt person? i mean, specifically. that was the first question. and secondly, please give me information - if you mentioned hanging politicians in the subjunctive, of course - why, when your party ruled in poland and the president of the current ruling party was hanged at marches organized by you, did the prosecution do nothing?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. first of all, my dear colleague, i never said that the suicide of a person of different sexual orientation was a direct action of the government, it was a consequence of hate speech, hatred, name-calling also in schools. so someone doesn't respond to these kinds of phenomena and actions. but i always regret, no matter who is in power, no matter what government, when there is no response to actions that are unacceptable in a modern country in the 21st century, no matter who they affect, whether minorities, politicians or the common man.
madam president! i'm polish, and in 2019, there are places in my homeland, in the heart of europe, that i can't go. there are shops, restaurants, hotels i can't go into. for 43 years i have lived in a country where people like me are called "homoterrorists", "promoters of homosexuality", "lgbt ideology". you can promote apples in a supermarket, not homosexuality. if there is anything we can promote in this house, if there is anything we can promote as politicians, it is tolerance, acceptance and respect for the other person. imagine if instead of lgbt people, on this board it said "jew", "catholic", "polish". and i think we all agree in this room that we need to act. when it comes to lgbt and when it comes to hate speech, part of this room applauds. in 2019, in the temple of european democracy. and that is a shame. it's a shame for us that we've brought this on ourselves. if there is anything we can do - and i am addressing the new commission and the new council - we must adopt legislation that treats everyone equally, introduce an anti-discrimination directive, prepare a strategy for lgbt people, protect everyone equally across europe. then there will never be another zone like this, and there will never be another embarrassing debate like this. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. dear mr. postle, if you would be so kind as to give specific examples of shops that you cannot enter in poland.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yes, of course. there's a whole list of places like that. - please. yesterday, for example, there was an article in many polish newspapers. one of the restaurants in krakow yesterday put another sticker on its door, one of several hundred that hang in poland on the doors of such shops, restaurants, places that people like me today, in a symbolic way, but perhaps soon according to the law, will not be able to enter. (the speaker agreed to answer the next question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. postle, very specifically, which store and which hotel? because you see, ideology very often uses generalities, trying to give the impression of amplifying an imaginary problem, and i want to know, this is a serious room, this is a serious debate, which store and which hotel. secondly, you have to admit that the government of the republic of poland and the police during the lgbt march in białystok, which was calculated to be about a thousand people, protected this march, there were more than seven hundred, almost eight hundred police officers, and waited several days for those who may have been injured to report. i heard it was no problem. police even posted images of people who may have used hate speech. please be specific.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. unfortunately, there are many of these on the internet. i found the first example in five seconds. we're going to advertise for them. the green cafe on carpenter street in krakow had a sticker like this. but in a few seconds you can find many such addresses in poland where lgbt people are not allowed to enter. and it amazes me, ladies and gentlemen, that you can defend with such energy and enthusiasm a situation in which a group of citizens from your country is being humiliated and ridiculed. if anyone ever comes up with the idea of treating people with right-wing views, catholics, poles, anyone, in this way, i would be the first to defend you. so stand on the side of good. stand on the side of respect for the other person. you still have a chance to redeem yourselves in this debate. it's not over yet.
madam president, with all the conventionality of the word "respectable", i see that poland has been your favorite chewing gum for the last few years and very irritating to you. poland, hungary and bulgaria both annoy you a lot, and i understand why. because in these countries, we still believe and know that the family is a voluntary union between a man, a woman and their families, or if you want a woman, a man and their families. and that makes you angry. the lgbtqi propaganda in this session has reached crescendo. every second report is dedicated to either the istanbul convention or lgbtqi, or your belief that children should be taken away and looked after by other people. we, the people, do not accept homosexual propaganda in schools and kindergartens. we do not condone acts that border on and are akin to pedophilia. and that bothers you. i understand that. but why do you think your opinion is stronger than mine? why do you think your opinion counts more than ours - the people of bulgaria, hungary and poland? why do you think that? this, my dear, is bolshevism. you act like chinese communist bolsheviks. they did this during the chinese cultural revolution. they shot everyone they didn't like. that's what you're doing right now. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – have you ever been told that you’re not welcome in a community and have you ever been barred from any receipt of public service on account of your identity? and, if you were, how would you feel?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. first of all, i wouldn't go anywhere i wasn't welcome. i choose the places i go. i don't push myself on someone who doesn't like me. and second of all, yes. many times your community has shown intolerance for my opinion. i tell them i don't recognize same-sex marriage and they're very aggressive. they want to impose same-sex marriage. i'm not welcome in your community. but it wouldn't make me very sad. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. because everyone should be equal under the constitution, so your opinion shouldn't outweigh mine. we should have the same opinion. and since in poland the poles vote, your honor, the poles decide. they choose law and justice and want it to rule them. why do you think you know better than the poles how to govern poland? i don't think it was. i think that polish citizens should rule poland, bulgarians should rule bulgaria, spaniards spain. you rule each of your countries. but not you to say what is good for poland or not. how do you know? you don't know.
madam president, europe has been a pioneer in lgbti rights and i am proud of that. unfortunately, legislative pitfalls and harassment are the most visible problems facing the lgbt community and, unfortunately, the difficulties are multiplying in europe. in france, 53% of lgbt people say they have been the victim of an attack because of their sexual orientation. in the uk, for fear of being unwelcome, only 12% of lgbt men and 17% of lgbt women have told their families. in portugal, ilga portugal denounces verbal attacks and threats, but also violence, harassment and discrimination in access to health. germany, on the other hand, has recorded more than 300 crimes motivated by sexual orientation, a third of which are violent assaults. belgium, which is my country, has recognized 84 cases of discrimination and violence against sexual orientation in 2018. the netherlands, which was the first country to recognize same-sex marriage, is of course the country where the population is most accepting of the issue of homosexuality; yet 29% of its citizens consider a kiss between two people of the same sex offensive. it is worse in central and eastern europe, where hungary opposes traditional values to gay rights, and where 50% of doctors in romania consider homosexuality to be a mental illness. so we have to continue to be the pioneers and defend their rights. it is a right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, and it is a right we must defend in europe.
madam president, poland is the one of the most tolerant and open states in the whole of europe. lgbt marches are secured by the state. but this is not about people, it’s about ideology. poland has the right to protect traditional and catholic values, and the parents’ right to teach their children according to the rules they approve. tolerance does not mean a lack of tolerance for traditional family patterns. that is what poland is fighting for. ask yourself which member states have been the most aggressive ones throughout history? which member state were breaking european values and which were defending those values, for instance during the second world war? do you know which member state was the first choice to live in of the jewish community when the state of israel did not exist, before the war? it was poland. so maybe the values of the polish people are not that bad. you can learn a lot from the polish people, so leave us alone. (the speaker agreed to take three blue-card questions under rule 171(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask the representatives of pis who are here in the room to say and confirm that it is not true that the president of their party, mr. kaczyński, calls lgbt people a plague, that you can get infected from them, and scares children, that is, he talks about that we should protect our children from the dangerous lgbt ideology? as we said, this ideology does not exist. tell me, is it not true and did kaczynski not scare us with refugees in that election, and now he scares us with a new invented, infectious lgbt ideology just to cause fear in people?
blue-card question. – you say: ‘poland has the right to defend its christian values’. wouldn’t it be more correct to say that it is not poland, it’s the polish government imposing one particular set of values on the whole population, ignoring the rights of all the polish people. wouldn’t you agree that the polish government should not be defending christian values, it should be defending the rights of all polish citizens?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. first, with reference to the last question of the member for in 't veld. of course, the polish government should protect all people regardless of religion or orientation. and that's exactly what's happening. so if it is otherwise, i would ask the honourable member to give an example of the polish government imposing catholic values on everyone. because on a general level, as you can see, we all have a very good discussion, but when i asked the polish representative to give an example of these alleged zones that are being created in poland, he could not give it right away. he did a dramatic search on the internet and found one address. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what it comes down to. on a general level, you can say anything. and on a general level, i can even say that i agree with you on that. but when we ask, show us the details, because we're professionals, it always ends up exactly the same. i would also like to address my reply to mrs adamowicz. if you say that such an ideology does not exist, and president kaczyński never spoke about people, but only about ideology and did not use such words, because you also cannot give an exact quote and you do it on purpose, so please tell me, if such an ideology does not really exist, please tell me what do gender departments do in the world, if such an ideology does not exist.
mr jaki, maybe i can defend the rights of colleague barley, but you did not respond to her question. you would have 10 more seconds.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. of course, your honor, it's not, and i also want to tell you that if such zones were to be established in poland, i would be the first person to fight them. the only problem is that, madam deputy, when we ask the question, show where they are, where they fight against lgbt people... (the president cut the speaker off)
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for mentioning hate crimes. i would like to ask you whether you would support the commission sending a clear signal today that it will seek to criminalise hate crimes in all european union countries, including those committed against people of a non-heterosexual orientation and because of their gender identity. will the commission stand with all those who want to criminalize hate crimes across the european union? it would be good if we left this debate today not just with the shame of having this debate in 2019.
in writing. what we heard today in the debate on discrimination and hate speech against lgbti people in the public sphere from mp robert biedronia and mp magdalena adamowicz in relation to the situation in poland is something monstrously false and untrue. i had the honor of serving as minister of internal affairs and administration in the law and justice government and i never i emphasize never for me and the services under me such as the police did not matter in the slightest what sexual orientation a citizen of the republic is who needs help or protection from the state. for me, my department and the government of law and justice, the absolute priority has been to ensure the safety of all - i emphasize all - citizens, regardless of gender, religion, origin or sexual orientation. we put a lot of emphasis on safety and security during marches and lgbti speeches. i have been criticized and attacked many times by marginal, but vocal circles. poland was, is and will remain a democratic state of law, in which every citizen is equal. and i find statements like those made by biedronia and adamowicz today to be extremely unjustified, false and unworthy. political strife and the dislike of the above-mentioned politicians towards the law and justice government cannot justify the use of lies in the international arena. it's extremely ugly and damaging to poland's image.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the polish delegation, which is concentrated in the european people's party, but also on behalf of the majority of polish society, which is pro-european, pro-democratic, we look forward with great hope to the effective work of the european commission in the composition you have presented. it is true that citizens are concerned about the quality of their lives, which is why climate policy, environmental protection, but also health issues are so important. that is why it is with great satisfaction that we have made the fight against cancer, the biggest killer, one of our priorities. prevention and education are necessary and needed. to carry out economic tasks, you need a good budget. we are putting ourselves at the disposal of the public to make it bigger, not smaller, to create new jobs, to invest in innovation, in economic development, in the question of enlargement and education. there is also a fundamental point which you have mentioned several times: the european commission is the guardian of the treaties. the defense of liberty and values, the rule of law, is a fundamental element of our community, no one can put themselves above the law, all governments are equal. that is why we also wish for consistency and action to continue to build this community of which we are so proud, so that no one threatens it and no one undermines it.
madam president, unlike my predecessor, i believe that this commission should be given credit. i thank the president-in-office for mentioning the velvet revolution and václav havel in her opening speech. with today's approval, the new commission will finally be able to take up its role and we can start working on the tasks ahead. i'll be speaking now as the coordinator of my faction for the committee for culture and education. i very much appreciate the fact that the commission president has responded to our request and also to the request of the professional community by adding the words 'culture, education and research' to the title of commissioner gabriel's portfolio. i believe that the commission will also promote sport as an important tool for improving health and social inclusion. since this word is not in the portfolio, i would ask my colleagues to support the creation of an intergroup on sport, so that this intergroup can work and promote sport within the european parliament. in this context, i would like to invite the commission to support the tripling of the budget for the erasmus programme. it is a programme with high added value, which helps teachers and pupils to improve their skills, their experience and has a high added value in their european experience. it's a program that allows for inclusion, but it's only going to get better if the budget is increased, which is why it's important. i also expect that we will launch the solidarity corps program, which is very important for the younger generation.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. it is a vote of confidence in the green deal which can be the reason for changing our economy and our lives in the european union. as long as we agree here that bold funding, private sector involvement and encouragement with all the tools we have available for innovation is needed. alongside the europe that will go forward, which will be the first continent to be carbon-neutral by 2050, there is also the europe that depends on carbon and must not be left behind. the thousands of families in the forty-one coal-dependent regions of western macedonia, in megalopolis, are waiting for you today to support them, to have the assurance that they will have many and sustainable jobs to which they can respond. just transition, based on the just transition fund, should be at the top of your agenda.
madam president, the changes brought about by the new composition of the european commission are not limited to new faces and more women, but we are witnessing a complete organisational change. the new names and responsibilities of certain departments are quite confusing and i am sure that they will not lead to an increase in efficiency. the former technocratic structure of the commission, which had its flaws but served its purpose, was replaced by a fairly ideologised new structure. although it has commissioners from different groups in its ranks, this commission looks less and less like an executor of what is agreed between member states and more and more like a structure with its own political agenda. mrs von der leyen, you get my vote out of sheer pragmatism and i sincerely hope that you will soon surprise me pleasantly and positively.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, by its composition, by its political programme, this is a commission chosen and mandated by those who rule in the european union to defend their interests, a commission on which the great powers can rely to defend and deepen their instruments of domination - from the single market to the euro - at the cost of the increasing sacrifice of the countries facing the greatest difficulties. a commission in which the promiscuity between political and economic power, big capital, big economic and financial groups that have their seat directly in berlaymont, is visible. a commission that takes on the subordination and subversion of cohesion policy, linking it to so-called structural reforms, which have served no purpose other than to destroy public services and sow precariousness in work and life. a commission which has adopted a far-right vision and conceptions, as was shown by the distribution of portfolios. a commission which demonstrates that the great coalition between the right and social democracy that the greens want now is, after all, alive and well... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, both personally and politically i am delighted to support president von der leyen, and indeed the college, and i look forward to working with them over the next four years – especially my colleague from ireland, commissioner hogan. ms von der leyen, i saw how you tried to build support for your candidacy – and especially how you bent over backwards to get the support of the greens, who make up less than 10% of parliament, promising them a new green deal. given that they fail to support you, that they may not support the college of commissioners today, and that they may not be happy with whatever you come forward with in the new green deal, saying that it is not ambitious enough, would you and mr timmermans consider changing the title to what it actually is, or will be: ‘an enhanced climate change strategy for europe’. because all sides of the house here are committed to combating climate change: no one group has ownership of it, and i think calling it an ‘enhanced climate change strategy’ would be sensible.
madam president, the basque nationalist party supports the most equal european commission in history. we need it to manage in a feminine way, to demonstrate to citizens that our union is based on values, not on interests, with a strong industrial policy that integrates the productive sectors in the transition from our production model to the circular economy. so we have to tackle the climate emergency, along with integrated, smart and sustainable mobility. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. we also hope that the instrument for monitoring the quality of the rule of law will be given a definitive boost, the best response to the extremists who want to go back to the past and threaten democracy. more democracy, politics with capital letters, dialogue, empathy, agreements, humanity: this was paco gambús, our coalition partner and chairman, a great person. you fool. may you rest in peace.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. i am not in favour of the commission's major cuts in social and regional cohesion policies and the common agricultural policy. i am therefore very pleased that the european union has taken the initiative to establish a european refugee policy, which is based on the principle of the rule of law. because i do not want the commission to be held hostage by mr orbán and mr salvini. and because i believe we need more ambitious targets to both tackle climate change and to tackle corruption and to tackle opacity. the european left group will therefore vote against the new commission and will be in constructive, rigorous opposition for five years.
madam president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. congratulations on the excellent presentation of your program. i am also glad that half of the team is female, because i am convinced that the work is more successful when men and women work together. you also highlighted the right priorities: climate change, digitisation, innovation, health, safety. all of this is important. and also that your goals, your actions, must be supported by the budget, because only then will we achieve those goals much more easily and efficiently. what i admire most is that you put man, man with needs, at the center of your policies. and people all over europe have the same needs: they want security, peace, cooperation. these are the values that make europe... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! the european commission presented last year two draft directives aimed at introducing a tax on the income from the provision of certain digital services. president von der leyen also mentioned the need for a fair digital tax. i want to support you wholeheartedly in this and wish you perseverance and consistency, because this is what needs to be done. unfortunately, the work of the european council shows how difficult a digital tax is to implement, how many opponents it has and how much resistance it faces. but more than that, madam president, i wish you perseverance, consistency and hope that you will not back down from this intention.
madam president! we live in interesting, but very difficult times. we live in a time when you don't have to go in tanks or go in submarines to destabilize another country. but since we live in interesting times, we must realize how great a responsibility lies in the hands of politicians. i'm a doctor, and my training has taught me that to solve a problem well, you have to diagnose it well, which means telling the truth about what's happening here and now. the safety of our children - not us, but our children - is in our hands today and depends on our decisions. we should realize that the great challenge for our adversaries, for the great powers, is precisely the destabilization and chaos in the european union. you don't have to knock on the open door, just get acquainted with the strategy of gerasimov (gerasimov was the chief of the general staff of the armed forces of the russian federation). he wrote in seven points what you have to do to destabilize another country without going in with a single tank. let us answer the question: are these processes not happening in our countries? the first point of the giracimo strategy is social disintegration, the opposing of social groups, the construction of better and worse. the second point of the giracimo strategy is the devaluation of the elite and the exchange of the elite from the people who make up the elite today to the people who will be easier to control and manipulate. the third point is the disorganization of the public administration. let us answer the question: is this not what is happening today in the european union and in the member states? the next point, the fourth, of the giraudimov strategy is the centralization of power. we have to ask ourselves, is not power today precisely centralized, which is easier to control later? eventually, there is a change in history, a change in historical characters, a change in historical truth. and the final point of the strategy is to destroy the law. let's answer the question whether gerasimov did not foresee an effective method of disinformation and chaos.
mr. chairman, interference in our democracies and elections is indeed a very serious issue. i'll join my colleagues. of course, this has been discussed in the past, but there is a question of what tools we are able to use and whether we have already lost some battles, for example, the brexit issue. i say to myself, if such a democracy, our model of democratic rule -- the united kingdom -- has lost this battle, is it not really appropriate to take some pan-european action? i have great confidence in the commissioner and i think we all have high expectations. her portfolio includes the very values of democracy, free elections, which she repeatedly highlights. and we, of course, perceive that this value is really crucial. the examples that have been given are just the tip of the iceberg. the interference in our member states is being carried out by a frontal attack by russia, china, but also other actors. they've been mentioned here before. russian foreign policy tools: the first one is always clear, a lie. then fake news, the spread of misinformation, and of course the disintegration of these companies. i would like to take the liberty of pointing out that of all the countries mentioned here, including the czech republic, the report was published by the security information service of the czech republic. i quote: according to the security intelligence service, russia is attempting to manipulate decision-making processes at all levels of the state administration. it exploits economic, political, military and information pressures and the perceived imperfections of state institutions and democratic processes, such as lengthy legislative processes, parliamentary debates or administrative procedures. i think we cannot face this danger by some isolated action or by cooperation with the private sector alone. this calls for truly pan-european action, and i firmly believe that we will see it.
mr president, what is the difference between the recent acts of interference in democratic procedures and meddling in domestic politics of other countries so well known from history? due to the new communication techniques, it is possible to reach millions of people by sending them fake news and suggestive comments without disclosing the authors, thus depriving the receivers of any possibility to verify and interpret the news independently. unfortunately, the worst is yet to come, and it will happen soon. the artificial intelligence revolution offers unlimited opportunities to create so-called deep fake. voters in democratic countries will be totally disoriented. democracy is at risk and should defend itself. this parliament has a special mandate and responsibility in that regard. it should empower itself with new instruments to be able to execute its role.
mr. chairman, please! in 2008, when poland and sweden proposed the eastern partnership, we were inspired by two processes: the union for the mediterranean, a project to stabilise one of our neighbourhoods, and the visegrad group, a project to prepare a group of countries for a hypothetical membership. i would like to confirm the words of the high representative that there was no design to make this a vote against russia. russia has decided that its democracy and free trade are in danger. the european union has invited russia as an observer to the friends of the eastern partnership. the question is, how far did we get? we've spent over 10 billion euros on worthwhile projects, we have deep free trade agreements, visa-free travel with three of these countries. 80 000 young people have benefited from the erasmus+ programme. but there is one thing that we have not been able to win in all of these countries, and that is the non-competitive structure in their economies. i therefore believe that we have done better than the union for the mediterranean, but not as well as the visegrad group. i would like to thank the high representative for all she has done for this project. i hope that the commission we have approved today will continue the eastern partnership, because it is a valuable project that brings our eastern neighbours closer to our standards.
mr president, it was a pleasure to work with the high representative in the foreign affairs council and also to host her briefly during this term of the european parliament. thirty years after the collapse of the communists, i think the project of a europe free, democratic and united, is not fully implemented. there is a long list of countries and candidates wanting to participate in this project. after 10 years of the eastern partnership, it’s time to reassess that initiative. we need more initiatives and a new strategy for the eastern partnership. making our candidate countries into look-alikes is not enough. the new strategy of the eastern partnership, based on a differentiation approach, was supposed to lead to enlargement – yes, enlargement, we’re not supposed to be afraid of this term, which is a key pillar of european foreign policy. even a distant perspective of membership is a powerful tool to promote democratic transformation in peace in our neighbourhood. membership is a catalyst for reform. so, contrary to president macron, we support keeping europe open and ready to accept new members.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the eastern partnership programme is indeed a success. i have to say that the problems of individual governments or the simulation of reforms cannot replace real cooperation with those who have aspirations - with the citizens of these countries, with entrepreneurs, with representatives of local communities. i come from a family that was torn apart by war. today, some of my family still live in those countries. they've only recently been able to meet with us on a visa-free basis. but i would like to emphasise very strongly that the next decade must be much more intensive, because these people-to-people relationships, between people, with ngos, within the erasmus for young people programme, are real actions that are also changing these societies. and we can't be indifferent to what we have to criticize, but we have three countries, three societies, that are clearly leading in that six. we must also rebuild and renew our strategy for them, because georgia, moldova and ukraine deserve more. these societies deserve more, because they also see in us the hope of improving their living standards and of development. we must remember this because they are counting on us, and despite the problems we face in individual countries - indeed, there are sometimes regressions - we cannot let go and we must not leave these societies in their aspirations.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the eastern partnership is an important instrument. maybe we all had high hopes for him once, but he's still needed, he's still a bridge. - what? it seems to me that - formally, of course - we can divide these six countries into three groups: the peloton of the rich, as mr andrzej halicki, my distinguished colleague, has mentioned, ukraine, georgia, moldova. the two countries that have signed the treaties are russia, belarus and armenia. and azerbaijan, which is neither here nor here. but i think we should be open to all six of these countries. let's not turn our backs on belarus and armenia, lest we give them over to russia. let's work very strongly with azerbaijan, rewarding that country for the certain neutrality that it has shown and for not signing any economic agreements with moscow. i think we should be very open here to those countries which have not yet signed association agreements with us. and here i am appealing.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the vice—president / high representative and thank her for all the work she has done in promoting the eastern partnership. this is such a strong tool for peace and reconciliation and for the security of the european union. together with the committee on foreign affairs all of us are working hard to get citizens of these countries to understand that european values are the only values that will transform their societies and bring better things for their societies, and we will continue working on it. i strongly support the idea of my colleague, mr kubilius, to focus on three countries that we are still hoping will get on the right track. we have provided visa—free travel and all the opportunities for young people, and we have provided them with a window of opportunity to see how much the european union can contribute to better their societies. i hope that this parliament and the new commission will continue along this path and the commission will have the strongest allies in us.
madam president! i'm not going to let you go. the experience gained in the 10 years of the eastern partnership justifies the need for its continued existence. we have minister sikorski here, the man who came up with the idea. but decisions are needed to respond to new challenges and dilemmas. the main problem is the partnership model, which on the one hand integrates its member countries economically and to a lesser extent politically with the european union, while on the other hand keeps them at the pre-accession stage. the partnership in its current form is seen by the members as a kind of alternative to full membership of the european union. after ten years, you have to make a decision, because the current model is not going to work. i believe that our eastern partners should receive a clear message from us about their future in the european union.
madam president! i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the progress of the eastern partnership countries despite the difficulties mentioned here and in particular with the progress of ukraine, georgia and moldova in making changes towards further integration with the european union. i think the eu should send a clear signal that it appreciates the efforts and determination of these countries. i support the initiative to develop a 'trio 2030' strategy offering concrete long-term instruments to support further reforms and investment. the road to european integration is not an easy one. we remember that in poland. the more we appreciate and want to support the efforts of our eastern neighbours. i would like to refer in particular to the progress of reforms in ukraine. i congratulate the new authorities on their zeal and courage in bringing about the changes that both ukrainian society and our eu partners have been waiting for. fighting corruption, reforming the judiciary, and running a responsible and effective government are big challenges. further decentralisation and the strengthening of civil society are also key to the development of ukrainian democracy. while i appreciate the determination of the authorities, i would nevertheless like to stress the importance of broad consultation, involving all partners - including civil society - at all levels of change. this is essential for both social acceptance, effective implementation and sustainability of reforms. i would also like to highlight the positive impact of ukraine's participation in european programmes, including the large number of young people participating in erasmus+. my meetings with the fantastic, knowledge-hungry, ambitious, open-minded youth of ukraine fill me with great optimism.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in 1492, when the jews were expelled from spain, from portugal, from the german lands, when they were burned at the stake there, they found their place on polish lands. in yiddish, polin means "here you can rest", "here you can live in peace". four hundred years later, when the german nazi barbarians came to poland, the jews were burned again, they were expelled again. in 1948, the state of israel was established. when i was in college, my fellow student, a palestinian named nidal, explained to me that the palestinians have an exclusive right to palestine because ismail was the beloved son of abraham. he could not answer my question as to why abraham had appointed isaac as his heir. this conflict from the time of genesis also resonates today in this debate. when i hear words like "apartheid", when i hear that israel is committing horrible crimes, i also see the suffering of the israeli people. let's remember that the israelis are experiencing terrorism from the palestinians. europe must stand on the sound footing of common sense in international law. both these countries have the right to self-determination.
mr president, i have to say... mrs mogherini, in the last few months social protests have erupted in various parts of the middle east. although they may seem isolated, the protests in lebanon, iraq and iran have a lot in common in some aspects: the provision of basic services, unemployment, corruption. anti-government protests in these three countries have been severely suppressed, resulting in the deaths of over 300 people, for example in iraq. and the total internet blockade in iran has not yet allowed to confirm the more than two hundred deaths estimated by various ngos. we in this parliament must condemn the use of force and the use of lethal means by the iranian and iraqi security forces to crush the largely peaceful protests. we must call on the iranian authorities to respect the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of expression, including the lifting of the total block on internet access that has been decreed. the increase in petrol prices, decreed by the iranian government, is in addition to the impact of economic sanctions imposed by the us administration last summer, which are having a devastating effect on the iranian economy and population, and are also, as we know, putting at risk the future of the nuclear agreement. according to the united nations and various ngos, these economic sanctions are causing the population a lot of suffering on a daily basis and not only affect the government. this does not, of course, absolve the iranian regime of its responsibilities in regard to the human rights of its people, which we know is something that concerns you too and which we must constantly demand from this parliament. in any case, from iran to lebanon to iraq, the leaders of these countries must listen to their people and initiate economic reforms that improve the living conditions and social welfare of the population and end corruption. and we, as the european union, must have a regional approach to the area in order to understand and be able to accompany and be an actor in resolving the various root causes that are currently affecting these countries and that are generating so much instability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about very different countries, but today they share a broad protest movement by thousands of people calling for a decent life, work, social inclusion, the fight against corruption. protests that are certainly far from the events of 2011, but which are not surprising, as the parliament's report bearing my name on the post-arab spring has feared, because of the persistence of structural problems. the economic and social fragility of lebanon, for example, an important partner of europe, which has taken in, as we know, well over a million syrian refugees, over 30% of the population, a situation which is leading the country to collapse. europe cannot and must not allow this to happen and must support beirut even more strongly to meet the demands of the lebanese people. i must also draw attention to the many cases of the return of refugees to the syrian army, cases which are reported to us by various sources on the ground, such as amnesty and operation colomba, which constitute a serious breach of the obligation not to return, and condemn those who suffer them to certain death. in iraq we are keeping a close eye on the kurdish population, so that the unrest is not used as a pretext to question regional autonomy. as an italian, i must also recall the tragic death of the soldiers on 10 november, claimed by daesh, and i would like to say that, once again, the us support for iraqi kurdistan is somewhat surprising after the scandalous lack of commitment towards the syrian kurds. today, more than ever, we need a clear signal from europe, strong in its external action. i would like to thank federica mogherini, who is here with us in the chamber, for her work in this direction over the years.
mr. chairman, please! my dear commissioner! i want to thank you very much for everything that has been done so far, including the summits that you have organized, where successive countries have declared their support primarily for syria, but also for the countries that are directly suffering the consequences of the war in syria and that the whole region is destabilized. but i think, if you will allow me, that the european union should have an even more consolidated action plan at this point. and in particular, besides the diplomatic procedures, which are difficult, the financial plan is very precise. a plan that should not only concern jordan, lebanon, but above all at this moment also iraq. because in iraq, the individual states are trying to help, for example, the hungarians rebuilt the village of telskuf. that's like eight million dollars. i think there are other places, especially in the nineveh valley, baszik, bartella, batnaja, where, if these people had a place to go back from the camps, they would go back immediately. i think that the destabilization would have to go away, and we have to think about, above all, that these specific projects show in tribute to the founding fathers that we are doing very specific things there.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr tomás tobé, on behalf of the committee on development, on the ongoing negotiations on a new eu-acp partnership agreement (o-000035/2019 - b9-0057/2019) and the oral question to the commission by mr tomás tobé, on behalf of the committee on development, on the ongoing negotiations on a new eu-acp partnership agreement (o-000036/2019 - b9-0058/2019). i would like to remind you that the procedure for the withdrawal of the vote and the blue card can be applied for both traditionally and electronically. the instructions are available at the entrance to the chamber.
member of the commission. – madam president, since the official launching of the negotiations on 28 september last year, the european union and the acp group of states have gone a considerable distance in establishing our future partnership. leading the negotiations for the eu has been an honour and a challenge for me. i believe we have made sufficient progress in a relatively short time. my successor, jutta urpilainen, will have a solid and comprehensive base upon which to conclude the negotiations with success. i’m confident that already negotiated but bracketed parts of the future agreement, tabled differences in our respective positions and parts of the agreement that we still have to open and address do not constitute unsurmountable difficulties that could endanger final consent on the draft text of the post—cotonou partnership agreement. this negotiation process is very much about the time needed to conclude an agreement, rather than about the lack of political will of the parties to have it concluded. the support and the engagement of parliament all along this process are so important. i remain certain that parliament will continue working to ensure a strong parliamentary dimension and will contribute to ensuring that the eu keeps on standing for its values in our partnership with acp countries.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, post-cotonou continues to be the key file for the council. let me assure you of that. i would like to also take the opportunity to thank commissioner mimica for his strong commitment to this work. the eu welcomes the commitment of the african, caribbean and pacific region’s side to the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change, as well as adapting the partnership to the changing global context, new challenges and the obvious opportunities that we also have. we believe that the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement should facilitate reaching an agreement, even on the most difficult topics. our finnish presidency will continue to pay the utmost attention to the ongoing negotiations and will seek to ensure that the council contributes to the progress on this important dossier. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your important and valuable remarks.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the cotonou agreement, signed in 2000, is a pillar of the partnership between the eu, its member states and 79 acp countries. its objectives include poverty eradication, the rule of law, sustainable economic and social development of partner countries and the gradual integration of their economies into the world economy. the global situation and new global challenges such as the migration crisis, terrorism and climate change have meant that the basic assumptions of the partnership need to be redefined. the negotiations and work on the new shape of the agreement are ongoing, but we must ensure that the legal and political foundations of the future eu-acp agreement are sound and based on the principle of equality between the partners, rather than on the current 'taker-giver' relationship, which is not working. it is also important to ensure that the three regional agreements based on other framework assumptions between the eu and africa, the pacific and the caribbean separately do not distract from the main priorities of the partnership as a whole. i am therefore pleased that the achievement of the sustainable development goals is recognised as a key element of the future agreement and i agree that a mechanism needs to be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement effectively contributes to the achievement and promotion of these goals. i believe that the eu-acp joint assembly has a significant role to play in democratically overseeing the future agreement and should maintain its position as both a monitoring and opinion-making body.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let us start with the good news: in the vast majority of european countries, we are beginning to see more forest coming back. we have succeeded in reversing this trend in the eu. europe's forests have grown by an area the size of greece since 1990. we are not there yet, of course, but there has been some positive progress. it is important that our member states increase their ambitions in this area, for example my own member state, denmark, has chosen to want to increase the area of untouched forest by sixfold. i hope other countries will follow suit. but we cannot do without action at european level. it is therefore of great importance that we have a new european environmental action programme or equivalent, which looks at pristine forests and our biodiversity and climate. in that programme i also think it is important that we make an effort to protect the people who help to protect our nature. i do not need to go into detail here on what this will look like. i think it is important that we also, on the european side, intervene and secure the people who help to protect our forests. in addition, we need to enforce the rules that already exist much better. this also means that we must punish those who do not respect the rules we have in europe. we can scale up! we must do much more to protect our forests and to protect those who protect our forests!
mr. chairman, please! forests are absolutely vital to keeping the air clean, and i don't have to convince anyone here about that. i would like to draw attention to the fact that we should create the best possible conditions for member states to manage their forests well. poland is a good example of good forest management, as it is the largest country in the european union in terms of forest area. today, it covers more than nine million hectares. we have a forest cover of almost 30 percent. the vast majority of them are state forests, and polish state forests are an example of how forest resources can be managed in a prudent and reasonable way. over 500 million new trees are planted in poland each year. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a point which was raised here in the house a few years ago, namely the białowieża forest. when a printer's comb appeared in the forest, environmentalists protested against the cutting of diseased trees. the forest is dying today. twenty-five percent of the forest is already dead. this is the work of unpredictable environmentalists... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, our precious nature does not have a voice, and the brave people who stand up to defend it risk their lives by doing so. i want to tell you the story of a romanian activist, gabriel paun from agent green. he is in the european parliament today. he risked his life trying to prevent trees becoming cheap furniture, trees harvested from the domogled national park in the retezat mountains. he has been attacked many, many times. in 2015, the ‘lumber mafia’ broke his head, his ribs, and his hand with the intention to kill him. while it was all recorded, it took prosecutors four years to send the attackers to court. last year, they cut down big trees in aiming to crush him and his car, to block him from filming their illegal logging. the authorities protect the illegal loggers by manipulating the official figures of the volume of wood that is taken each year from romania’s forest. this is unacceptable. what will the commission do to protect our forests and to protect the people who defend them?
mr. chairman, i agree that protecting the environment is a vital human rights battlefield. i would like to condemn in the strongest terms the murder of two workers, respectively forest defenders in romania. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that in most cases, the ombudsmen are actually acting in the public interest, because they are trying to protect the environment, sustainable development and human rights in general. but there must also be no abuse of rights, where there is manipulation, abuse of the position of defenders, so there can be no provision of any super-standard protection. in less economically developed countries, indigenous and local communities are the primary protectors of their natural resources. this is only about the state of forests and conservationists in the european union, but let's not forget that there are communities in the world that naturally protect their natural resources. there has indeed been a break in the forestry trend, the state of the forests in europe is improving, but we must not fall asleep on the laurels. i would like to stress that we must continue to reforest and protect the forest.
mr president, for the last couple of years we have been witnessing increasing numbers of protests in defence of the natural environment in the eu. environmental activists, like those in białowieża forest or camp for climate in poland, engage in great service to humanity, and their demands are compelling. when the polish part of the białowieża forest, registered at the unesco world heritage, was the subject of massive cuts, environmental defenders were there to stop deforestation and alert public opinion. the european community must not watch silently as environmental defenders are harassed, arrested and face charges for what they do. i call for increasing efforts to protect and fulfil environmental defenders rights within the eu. the eu needs a clear line on this issue. those who protect the environment are heroes, not criminals.
colleagues, thanks for your patience with my strictness on time, and i have another bad announcement to make. we have to be finished by 4:10, and i therefore have been urged to cancel the catch-the-eye procedure. i regret that it is not my call. i am just required to do that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, mr frans, we are facing a global emergency which is manifested in the increasingly frequent climatic catastrophes affecting our citizens and our farmers. a common and highly coordinated approach is needed to meet this challenge, and the ambitious pact between the union and its citizens presented today is certainly an encouraging assumption of this responsibility. however, without the strong participation of our farmers, any prospect of mitigating climate change becomes unrealistic. european farmers must be guided and given the appropriate incentives to make a further leap in the quality of environmental services that can benefit the whole community. the proposal for reform of the cap on which we are working, however, gives the member states the task of devising a strategy to meet this epochal challenge, which is essentially a renationalisation of european intervention in rural areas. that is why, my dear frans, we need a more common and stronger agricultural policy, so that it can really be the key to climate change... (the president cut off the speaker)
the uachtaráin, comhghairdeachas leis an uachtarán, ursula, as ucht teacht chugainn inniu has deich lá in oifig leis in the dead of august in the motaí a chuir sí romhainn inniu. i agree with you completely, and i said yes, and i will continue to work with you to achieve your goals. i was very pleased about was that president ursula von der leyen promised that no one will be left behind. her announcement of a just transition mechanism, far greater in scale than expected, is very welcome and will be welcomed especially in carbon-intensive areas, such as the peatlands in the irish midlands, coal areas in poland, etc. when you have everybody on board, then you can be successful. as we say in irish: ní neart go cur le chéile (there is no strength without unity). finally, i just want to make one point. my country has been a laggard up until now, but with myself and you, mr vice-president, and our colleagues, we will ensure that it will be a leader in this area from now on.
mr president, the transition to a sustainable society can only be achieved if we take everyone with us. unfortunately, it has become clear today that some governments are not willing to do that. they're blocking a cleaner investment bill right now. that's weird, because we're the ones who need to mobilize the money. it is important that we achieve a social and sustainable climate. we do not want to create an even greater gap between rich and poor, and that is why i am glad that the issue of climate poverty is being explicitly taken into account. we need to invest in new jobs for people who are still working in polluting industries, and we need to create jobs for people who are still looking for work. that's why the labour party wants today's announcement to end in a deal, so that we are indeed the first continent to be climate neutral by 2050. french, as far as we're concerned, you're the right man at the right time in the right place to lead the fight.
mr president, the green deal presented today points the way to carbon neutrality by 2050. i think it is very good that it has taken very broad account of the different sectors of society and how we need to reform industry, the circular economy, food production, biodiversity, sustainable transport, chemical legislation and trade policy. it is clear that such a major shift towards a carbon-neutral society means that our industry needs to be radically transformed. it is also a social transformation and means that we must be able to accelerate innovation in europe so that our industry can also benefit from it. we will be more competitive in the future. however, many issues need to be considered very carefully, including the reform of the ets and carbon taxes, as it is not sensible to create overlapping systems. we must constantly strive for a model that reduces emissions as efficiently and as market-oriented as possible.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing europe, and the european green deal can be the right answer. european cohesion policy, one of the eu's largest and most important investment instruments, is already focusing on climate action. i want her to do that even more in the future. we are currently working on this in the negotiations on the future cohesion policy. we also need stronger support from the member states, who are still very reluctant at the moment. we need to make sure that the green deal is solidly funded. this also means that we cannot do it with less money, on the contrary, we need new, fresh money so that european funds can help in the fight against climate change and in the fight for a just transition. we need all the partners, not just the commission, not just the european parliament, but also the member states.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i’ve listened very carefully to this debate and i’m really excited by the fact that this parliament has expressed such broad support for the european green deal. this is a great start of what is going to be quite a bumpy road, where we will need both institutions to concentrate on all the elements that we need to make the green deal work. first of all, let me say here today that i want to congratulate greta thunberg for having been nominated person of the year by time magazine. i think this is a great sign that this generation – our kids – are leading the way, and as a parent, there’s nothing more beautiful than when you see that your kids are leading the way. but that’s not the only reason why i believe we need to act now. the reason i believe we need to act now is because the facts are staring us in the face, and i think if you are a responsible member of parliament, if you’re in the responsible position in the commission, if you’re a citizen, if you’re a parent, you do not have the luxury to ignore the facts. look at what’s happening in greenland. look at what’s happening globally with our climate. look at the desertification. look at the erratic weather. look at the people suffering because of this erratic weather across europe. look at what’s happening to our biodiversity as we speak. we do not have the luxury to ignore this any more. and look at another thing that’s happening. we are in the middle of the fourth industrial revolution. that is going to change our economy, our industry, whether we like it or not, whether we act or not. so the question we have to face today as europeans is this: are we going to try and be masters of this momentous change, of this paradigm shift, or are we just going to let it happen, and then others will be the masters of it and we can just be the subjects of what others will decide? this is the fundamental question we have to answer, and the green deal is not a blueprint. it’s a roadmap. it’s an extended open hand to you and to all the stakeholders, whether it’s businesses, whether it’s ngos, whether it’s trade unions, whether it’s citizens, whether it’s cities, whether it’s regions, to be part of a discussion of how we are going to reorganise our society in a just way so that it reflects the values we want to stand for. and we need to do this because mother earth is fed up with this behaviour. and you know, she was able to exist for millennia without human beings; she will be able to exist for other millennia without human beings. we’d better make sure we create an existence in balance with her so that we can continue to exist as human beings for millennia. and this is the responsibility we have before our kids. but let me make a point, because it was said often: this is costly. yes, but don’t forget what the cost is of not acting. we see it every day. it was also said we have to be sure we take the right decisions. yes, that is why every proposal the commission is going to put on the table will be assessed for impact. impact assessment will be an essential element of our analysis, but we will do this in a very, very speedy and comprehensive way. for instance. to determine exactly what the reduction by 2030 should be, from 50 to -55% – we want to have an impact assessment on that. but we want to be ready with that impact assessment early in the summer next year, so that the european union is extremely well prepared, with a climate law for cop26 in glasgow, so that we can lead the way. i bring back a message from madrid – the cop, where i’m going to go back and present the green deal tomorrow. the message is this: we need european leadership. the message is also this: some of us are insecure about what we should do. but if europe leads, we might go in the same direction. i had meetings with ministers from many countries saying: climate neutrality by 2050 is a good idea, we might do things the same way. with the chinese we are in a debate. are we going to have collective global leadership on this? yes or no? we need to work on that, because if we do it together, the impact will be much bigger. but at the end of the day it is very important that this parliament take this in hand and make sure that parliament has a leading role, together with the commission, to convince our member states and council to do the right thing. and if we begin by enshrining in law that by 2050 europe will be climate neutral, then we can take steps back until today and just chart the map that we need to get there, and then we will discuss the measures we will need to take, whether it’s on ets, whether it’s on emissions, whether it’s on taxation, whether it’s on all sorts of other measures to make our industry circular, to make sure that there are jobs in this new economy. but finally, i want to add one thing which is very, very important. you know, the biggest risk here i see is that those who are most vulnerable in climate change see themselves also as most vulnerable in the answer to climate change, so that they start resisting the green deal because they feel that they are vulnerable. and at the end of the day, if they resist the green deal and they stop it, they will be the first victims of the consequences of not doing the right thing. so that’s why – and this is a fundamental point – if this is not a social green deal, the green deal will not happen. if this is not a green deal where the most vulnerable regions in europe – coalmining regions and others – do not see solidarity from other parts of europe, it will not happen. so we need a level of solidarity with vulnerable individuals and vulnerable regions to make sure the green deal can be delivered for all our citizens. and let me end, because mr lange quoted ‘man on the moon’, so i obviously though of the famous moon speech by jfk, and let me just amend it slightly and end with that. we choose to go (to the moon in his case), we choose to go for climate neutrality in 2050 and do the other things, not because they are easy but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organise and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone and one which we intend to win. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession on 1 january. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. saving energy helps to keep our planet habitable, but it also benefits the saver economically. estonian buildings still waste more energy than buildings of the same type in finland. there are many energy-saving opportunities in transport. bolt, a vehicle-sharing service, makes use of one resource - the car - ten times more efficiently. innovation must be supported. estonia has excellent developments in supercapacitors, packaging robots, fuel cells or hydrogen energy. instead of considering investing in a pre-refinery, the estonian government should support innovation.
in writing. banning plastic straws is not going to help us anymore we need a complete transformation of our economic system. we are faced with the 'necessity of going beyond the framework of gradual improvement of efficiency and increasing the level of implementation of environmental policy'. this is just part of a report published last wednesday by the european environment agency (eea) on the environmental performance assessment of europe. after all the appeals from the scientific community, i am pleased to accept the promise to draft a 'new green deal' within the first 100 days of the commission's term of office. but his proposals must go far beyond the greening of growth we already know. the need to reduce emissions is undeniable. so is the shift from coal to renewable energy. the new green leader must propose a new fund for a just transformation one that does not harm thousands of miners in poland and allows post-mining regions to maintain their cultural identity in a fair way. we need to take radical steps now so that in 10 years we can look our children in the eye. and it has to be a very balanced approach so that everyone benefits from the transformation.
in writing. despite much green propaganda, there is little left of this pact. a lot of what's left isn't good. they want to expand the carbon market, the business that some people do by buying and selling licenses to pollute. they want to insist on neoliberal policies that, in addition to social injustice and economic inequality, create many of the ecological imbalances we face. it is not because you say the word 'green' a thousand times that you change the nature of the policies that brought us here. we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. i certainly do. but if we want to do it with social justice and environmental sustainability, we need public control of the energy sector, which cannot be in the hands of the multinationals that control it. a society based on unbridled consumerism - paint it however you like - is not sustainable. where are the measures to combat planned obsolescence? where are the measures to promote quality and free public transport as an alternative to the car? also behind this green screen is the old and ever-present confrontation between capital and labor.
in writing. the european green deal sets out to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, while maintaining economic competitiveness and social justice. it's a big job, and it can only be approached responsibly, given the complexity of the challenge. the motto of the european union is 'united in diversity'. the european green deal cannot be based on any other principle. the diversity of member states, their different natural capacities and their different starting points on the path towards climate neutrality should therefore be duly respected. one of the pillars of this is the principle of technological neutrality. because in the climate emergency, we don't have the luxury of favoring certain technologies and stigmatizing others. for a successful transition, we need all low-carbon solutions without exception. finally, unity in diversity must mean justice. i hope that, in addition to the nice words, it will be embodied in a fund and mechanism of the necessary size to support a just transition. because if the principle of justice is violated, we will soon face a social and economic emergency, which i find unacceptable.
in writing. i would like to thank the commission for presenting the green new deal for europe. it is surely high time that we address climate change not just as an emergency but as a state of emergency. this is the most important thing we've done in this european parliament term, this is what the young people who are on the climate strike want us to do. it is to them and to future generations that we must provide a world that is livable. and we have to do it smart. the energy transition is a necessity, and it is a necessity to make it happen as soon as possible. it is also necessary to carry it out in a socially and culturally safe manner. mining regions, such as silesia, in particular, face a huge challenge and all the transformation mechanisms at eu and national level must enable them to meet this challenge. we need smart decisions, money, cover actions and - above all - explaining the need for change to our citizens so that they feel they are the authors of the success of the transformation. europe should be the source of the best legislation and technologies that together will make europe climate neutral by 2050. the opportunities of the ecological transition will benefit those who act first and fastest. as mep for silesia, a mining region in transition, i will be very active in implementing the green new deal for europe.
in writing. today we are talking about the european green deal, a path that must be followed by our citizens, regions, industry and energy. the ambition to be carbon neutral by 2050 and the 2030 targets should make us pragmatic and give us a clear assessment of the challenges and solutions we need to take. we need to maintain and develop our global competitiveness and increase our energy security by not excluding working solutions. innovation, human potential and scientific achievements are the tools that ensure that every citizen, region and economic sector in europe can successfully navigate its green path. climate change and environmental protection, global technology competition and limited access to resources are clear answers to why we need the green deal, but we need to have a specific prior assessment of each goal and how it preserves our role as a global model for peaceful human development. let us not forget that 50 million europeans are still energy poor and a number of sectors, including energy, are facing challenges in their digital transition. every change has a price, and the citizens of europe know it. development, security and leadership is what they expect to get in return for their work and efforts!
in writing. i believe that the implementation of the european green deal is rightly the main political priority of the new commission, because we cannot ignore the negative effects of the degradation of our environment. the success of this project lies in the conviction of the public, especially the central and eastern european countries, including poland, that this is a project for the good of the people, not against the people. the green order's antagonists will surely identify it with extreme ideology or a money grab. it is already easy to predict that this will be the main narrative of the opponents of change in europe. i am convinced that the european commission should launch the green deal with a very wide-ranging education and information campaign to help eu citizens understand what the project is all about. that it is not intended to make the citizens of europe slaves to the new green corporations, but only to serve the good of all of us and future generations.
in writing. the european green deal is a new strategy to improve health, quality of life and the environment by transforming europe's economic model. it also sets out an action plan for a circular economy, including the reduction of plastic waste. however, tackling climate change is a global challenge and requires international and, above all, coordinated external action. achieving the climate goals, including climate neutrality, presented by ursula von der leyen will only have a real impact on halting the progressive degradation of the environment if we all engage in the process of transformation. everyone is responsible for the future of our planet: we, the members of parliament, and the youngest of our students. the eu should become a leader in environmental action by promoting its objectives as a model for global agreements, focusing on greenhouse gas emissions reduction and biodiversity. in march next year, the world's first draft climate law is set to be introduced, which will permanently incorporate climate neutrality targets by 2050 into various legislation. we should all the more strengthen our efforts to increase policy coherence for development and climate. this is about sustainable trade with other parts of the world, as well as building partnerships with developing countries to help them in their own transformation towards more environmentally efficient economies.
in writing. – i welcome the european green deal (egd) launched today, this roadmap to action, as no one left behind! egd stresses the importance of making infrastructure climate-resilient and it recognises the challenges and opportunities that lay ahead for sectors, cities, communities and regions in this transition and of creating decent work and quality jobs. the implementation of the un 2030 agenda (17 sdgs) and the paris agreement means to adapt and build resilience to climate change should ensure stability, recovery and a better balance between inclusive societies and prosperous economies. the climate emergency imposes more action in order to achieve the paris agreement goals with a significant share of the investments for combating climate change should be realised by the private sector, further to the public funding. a just and fair transition policy framework and an investment plan with a visible positive impact on employment will create the conditions to better align eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050. having people at heard of transition is the responsible way forward to a net-zero greenhouse gas economy. it is about people and their daily lives, about the way europeans work, transport themselves and live together.
in writing. the new green deal will be a challenge for many countries, but above all for societies, especially considering the different starting points. and while this whole initiative was born out of noble intentions, if it becomes ideologized, it can have profound and profound side effects that many of you are afraid to talk about today. the law-making process must be based on the sound analysis and opinion of all parties involved in the transformation. both commission and parliament will have to take account of the opinions of people with whom they disagree on a daily basis and be extremely sensitive. otherwise, we will end up like the last round of negotiations on sustainable finance, the so-called green new deal taxonomy, where the negotiating chairs from the renew group, the rapporteur and part of the negotiating team, including the commission representative, hid for more than 4.5 hours in a 'private' trilogue and secretly agreed the terms of the agreement, thus disrupting the transparency of the process. do we want a new green order behind closed doors, forced upon citizens who were in the minority? we may disagree on many things, but it is your duty to listen to all europeans and make sure they do not feel excluded from key decisions. otherwise, this initiative is doomed to failure.
in writing. – the european green deal presented by commission to the meps in an extraordinary plenary session in brussels today lacks necessary measures to tackle some key factors behind the climate crisis. one area that has not been addressed properly is industrial farming – a practice that is growing and intensifying in europe. factory farms produce staggering quantities of waste, pollute our land, air and water, and massively contribute to climate change. it is widely known that factory farming is an unsustainable method of raising animals – and one that is not compatible with the safe and wholesome food supply that the european green deal promised. limiting the over-consumption of meat and dairy products is also essential to ward off climate crisis. therefore, the absence of policies to stop industrial farming or to promote a shift towards plant-based diets is alarming. when designing a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system, the eu must tackle the over-consumption of meat and dairy products and factory farms. we need a change in dietary patterns and farming practices. without such change, the headline objective behind the new environmental law cannot be achieved. we need concrete plan and actions to stop this destructive, wasteful, inefficient and cruel system.
madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, all the member states share the problem of tax fraud in transactions through electronic commerce in the european union. the estimated loss of vat revenue from crossborder transactions is around eur 5 billion. vat fraud in the supply of services has also been found, although this is certainly more difficult to quantify. member states alone do not have the information necessary to ensure the correct and effective application of vat rules. the exchange of data is not always possible due to legal constraints, which makes administrative cooperation inefficient in order to combat tax fraud in electronic commerce. we need new tools to fight fraud in cross-border e-commerce transactions. information exchange, agile decision-making and simplification of the rule are crucial to combating fraud effectively. we therefore support the proposal to create a central electronic system for storing payment information and the obligation for member states to collect and transmit information from payment service providers. for this, it is necessary to simplify, it is necessary to harmonize the data collection process and its format. this will make us more effective and will help us to avoid payment providers being obliged to present the same information in a different format in each member state. this will undoubtedly be an effective tool for the fight against fraud and will be an efficient action that will allow payment service providers to save time and resources, removing barriers to further implementing a true digital single market. mrs. pereira, congratulations on this good work. we must keep moving.
madam president, we are talking about the tax that is a major revenue source for member states. therefore, the fight against vat fraud and vat losses is to strive to minimise the impact on state budgets. it is a fight for our governments to finance hospitals, schools or invest in a safe infrastructure. according to statistics, the vat gap in 2017 amounted to over 137 billion euros; that means more than around 260 euros per eu citizen were lost. while the differences across member states vary, a unilateral fight to fight tax fraud is not efficient – only a common set of actions can solve or minimise the problem. hence, i welcome the commission’s proposals on the files we are discussing: introducing requirements for payment service providers, and strengthening cooperation within the eu in order to combat vat fraud. at the same time, i want to stress two issues. the commission should evaluate if virtual currency platforms should also be covered by the legislation. also, in order to have more precise data on the vat gap, i call on the commission to develop a common statistical approach to quantify this phenomenon.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the scale of vat fraud in the european union is enormous, and it is not clear how big it is. the cooperation of member states in combating fraud is simply necessary. the ecr group supports the commission and the council in the fight against vat fraud and evasion, particularly in the area of e-commerce. it seems necessary to design better laws, better tools so that we can create a situation where businesses that want to grow, or consumers who want to benefit from the market, are not harmed by this legislation. the challenge is also clarity in the protection and collection of personal data here, of course, cooperation with the european data protection supervisor is necessary. we should be able to get information on the dishonest seller based outside the country of consumption, and the money saved can be directed to other important areas of state activity, as in poland. in recent years, poland has been very successful in combating tax evasion, and we have been using the funds from this fight for social causes. it is therefore a matter of determination to combat the vat loophole effectively, which will bring glory to all the countries of the european union and bring order to the law.
thank you very much, mr. ambassador. since there are no reports from the chamber, i would like to ask commissioner paolo gentiloni to speak on behalf of the commission. there you go, commissioner.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 17 december 2019.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on fair taxation in a globalised digital economy beps 2.0 (o-000040/2019 - b9-0060/2019) (2019/2901 (rsp)). i would like to remind you that the withdrawal procedure and the blue card procedure can be applied for both traditionally and electronically. the instructions are available at the entrance to the chamber.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we assume that we all agree that tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance are unacceptable practices. the g20 group of countries at the level of the organisation for economic cooperation and development is right, but it is important to develop an international consensus that is acceptable to as many countries as possible. the changes that are taking place will have a very significant impact on the functioning of the economy, particularly in developed countries, in the coming years. we need simple, robust solutions based on in-depth analysis. i have the impression that the resolution is inconsistent. for example, he welcomes the so-called second pillar, stressing that its advantage is that it taxes value or economic activity in the country where it takes place - something we would all like to see - but the opposite is true. income inclusion roles will, after all, tax companies for creating goods or services through a foreign subsidiary just because that subsidiary pays lower taxes in the country where it operates. i believe that without the introduction of appropriate inclusions, even in view of the state aid currently being discussed in the european union, new solutions may undermine the effectiveness of the agreement and align it with the interests of a few countries, and then there will be no consensus to build that will respond to the new challenges and problems of all parties involved.
madam president, according to existing estimates, multinationals are running away with over 500 billion dollars a year that were owed to the states in corporate taxation. five hundred billion dollars that could and should be used by the states in the exercise of their social duties and to relieve the taxes that fall on those who work. this is a reality that cannot be separated from neoliberal policies, the free movement of capital, relocations, privatisations and the weakening of public administrations. the proposals adopted here on the common corporate tax base and its consolidation leave several of these multinationals untouched. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the tax authorities of the member states on tax havens are not binding on the tax authorities of the member states. this list was rejected by the council. much can and must be done to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. the fight for tax harmonization is not just, or necessarily, a matter of tax harmonization, and it must scrupulously respect the sovereignty of the states in this area.
madam president, they say that only two things in life are certain: taxes and death. scandals such as the panama paper or luxleaks have shown that only the latter is certain. the so-called beps 2.0 is a step in the right direction. while taking it easy on start-ups and small companies, it is not a surprise that digital groups such as facebook or google will be mostly affected by the actions proposed by the oecd. however, it is improper for the us to perceive the two pillars as an attack on the united states. we need to act fast, adopt both of them at the same time, and react together on the international level. for this to happen, we need the us to understand that taxes should be paid where the value is created, not avoided, nor evaded. but in the eu our usual suspects also need to act with the eu core. we need to speak with one voice to influence the international negotiations. if the consultations on the international level do not succeed by the end of 2020, we in parliament call for, as promised by ms von der leyen, an eu solution to tackle this phenomenon.
madam president! when i read the maltese documents, i'm in shock. my friend bilčík reminded me of slovakia, but i have other associations associations as bad as the worst. i am a pole and i remember journalists, activists, priests who were not fit for power, killed by so-called unknown perpetrators. a government that covers up political murders cannot be accepted by democratic governments. he can't have partners, he can't have approval in this house for one day. that kind of power has to go. and any authority that puts itself above the law cannot be accepted in the democratic community that we are. the resolution we pass tomorrow, i hope, will open a new chapter: free elections, a government of public trust and then reforms that affect the justice system. in this house, i hope, without any political calculations, we must vote unanimously tomorrow with the maltese people in full solidarity. we owe it to the maltese people, because democracy and freedom in this house must be guaranteed by resolutions like this one tomorrow.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question (i don't know if i'm asking it correctly) to all of you who have spoken about land. mark twain said, "buy land, they don't produce it anymore". i have a question for the commissioner, if i may, would he be in favour of a review of the land distribution in each of the countries of our european union? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! there's a certain percentage of people who cheat, but not all of them do, and i agree with monica hohlmeier on that one. there is a problem. sometimes fraudsters buy land by fraud and then they get subsidies by fraud. and that's something we have to take into account, because that's just the way it is. not all of them do it, a small percentage do it, but that's the percentage we have to fight. my question and request is: would there be a will here in parliament for all the institutions of the european union to tackle the problem of fighting corruption in the land sector in each of the countries of the european union? let's have a report on how land is being traded in all the countries of the european union. poland has a good law for this, and we have managed to protect the country from fraud related to unfair land transactions. a con man won't buy land in this country.
mr. chairman, please! for years, i've worked very closely with people with disabilities. i know that the employment of a disabled person is the best way to complete the long and arduous rehabilitation and treatment process, and that maintaining such employment is another challenge for them. employers achieving at least a 50% employment rate for disabled people and creating a work environment that is friendly to them could: be entitled to the same public support as guaranteed to smes by article 17 of the commission regulation of 17 june 2014, including, inter alia, investment aid, advisory services, participation in trade fairs, access to risk finance, start-up, recognition costs, research and development and innovation. i hope that we all understand the situation of people with disabilities and that we will try to make this strategy as realistic and as good as possible for them.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to ask when the european union will start spending on disabled people, even if it is only a fraction of the amount that is spent on new policies, such as the recent green policy, for example, which we are told is going to cost hundreds of billions of euros. when will the pro rata of these funds be spent on disabled people? their professional activation, their education, also how do they deal with disability when they get older, when they get older, and when they have big problems with care? these are fundamental questions. i also wanted to ask how the european union intends to protect disabled people who are in the later stages of pregnancy and who in many countries are entitled to be removed simply because they are disabled, at a time when they are often already capable of living independently. do we have a policy in this area that also takes into account the concept of tolerance? do we really want to tolerate people with disabilities?
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the strategy we are discussing today aims to promote a barrier-free europe, empowering people with disabilities to enjoy their full rights and participate freely in social and economic life. the evaluation of the strategy over the last ten years is undoubtedly positive and i therefore believe that it should be continued, with the necessary changes, of course, beyond 2020. but i would like to draw attention to one aspect. the union has not yet decided to harmonise the status of disabled persons and the rights related to disability. consequently, the granting of a degree of disability in one country of the union does not automatically imply recognition as a disabled person in another member state. i consider that this situation may lead to a breach of the fundamental principles of the union legal order, equal treatment and non-discrimination and the free movement of persons. the commission should therefore consider taking appropriate legislative action in this area and i am making this request to the commissioner.
in writing. i welcome and hope that the commission will engage in a substantive dialogue with parliament on the new european disability strategy. two years ago, the 4th european parliament of the disabled adopted a manifesto for a new strategy. the disability community is looking forward to a new, ambitious disability rights agenda for the next 10 years! today, there are over 100 million people with disabilities in europe, and the number is growing. millions of europeans with disabilities want to learn, work, participate in public life, travel and live independently without obstacles. meeting these expectations is not only a duty for europe, it is a necessity. europe needs the social, economic and intellectual potential of this group of citizens. access to universal education for children and young people with disabilities and adequate support for teachers are crucial to not limit opportunities for further development. the obligation to adapt the workplace rationally, and the support of european measures for the training and professional development of disabled people, the transition from dependence on benefits to employment in the open labour market, are the best ways to combat social exclusion and poverty. it is necessary to introduce european accessibility standards, especially in transport, and to regulate satisfactorily the rights of disabled passengers and the general introduction of the european disability card. i very much hope that the new european commission will make the building of an inclusive, accessible europe its priority.
in writing. persons with disabilities have been seen as passive recipients of aid policies. however, most of them are people of working age who want to participate actively in the labour market and social life, but do not have the opportunities created they still face physical and administrative barriers, as well as discriminatory attitudes from some employers. but the cost of excluding people with disabilities is enormous. the ilo estimates that it is as high as 1 to 7 percent of a country's gdp. i therefore believe that the new eu disability strategy post-2020 should focus on removing these barriers. the development of new technologies and changing conditions and forms of employment offer enormous potential for the inclusion of people with disabilities, but these elements must be well exploited. change should start as early as possible in education. i also very much hope that the new strategy will include, as one of its priorities, the full implementation of the european accessibility act, in partnership with the commission, the member states, the private sector and ngos.
in writing. the new disability strategy should aim to increase the opportunities for people with disabilities to fully enjoy their rights and participate in society and the european economy, in particular through the single market. it should be recalled that one of the priorities of the new european commission is the european pillar of social rights, which speaks directly about equal opportunities and, in paragraph 17, about the integration of people with disabilities. disabled people have the right to income support that ensures a decent life, to services that allow them to participate in the labour market and in social life, and to a work environment adapted to their needs. there is still a lot to be done, for example in terms of improving accessibility, and that's why i'm glad that the law and justice government in poland has created a special social program in this area. i hope that the new strategy will be a good continuation of the outgoing european disability strategy 2010-2020.
in writing. during my first parliamentary term, i worked as a rapporteur on the report on the european disability strategy 2010-2020, which focused on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities. over the past ten years, the strategy has lived up to its expectations and made everyday life more accessible for millions of europeans with disabilities. we have made great progress in recent years, such as the adoption of the european accessibility act or the opening up of websites, but we cannot stop there, because there is still so much to do. the decade has also brought rapid changes in other areas: digitalisation is both a challenge and a great tool to further the integration of people with disabilities. it is imperative that we have a strong, comprehensive, enforceable disability strategy for the period beyond 2020, responding to new challenges in full compliance with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the sustainable development goals, and taking an even more comprehensive approach to the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. it's also important to resolve the funding of the monitoring board. the horizontal directive also requires a new approach: it is imperative that the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities cannot be legislated for because of dilemmas faced by other groups.
in writing. for people with disabilities, it is crucial to adapt the infrastructure to create the conditions that enable them to function independently. this also applies to people with intellectual disabilities, who are able to function like all other citizens and to play many roles in society. in many eu member states, closed-protected centres are the predominant form of social and occupational rehabilitation for people with intellectual disabilities. this applies both to the places where people with disabilities live and work. this is a discriminatory situation and limits the ability of these people to function in society. an alternative to this situation is to organise schemes to support people with intellectual disabilities in taking up employment in the open labour market, so-called 'assisted employment' and 'assisted housing' with the permanent or periodic support of a qualified trainer. the european union should allocate adequate resources to the promotion and establishment of the abovementioned support schemes. the aim is to increase the availability of care and support systems so that each citizen can choose the best path for him or her to develop and function in society, according to his or her capabilities. moreover, there is no legal provision in community law for the reciprocal treatment of judgments on disability issued in another community country each country applies its own criteria. urgent action should therefore be taken to harmonise the disability court system.
madam president, it has been four years since the paris agreement. several declarations of a climate emergency have been made since then. from the point of view of a concrete reduction in greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, the practical effect of the agreement was nil. no concrete reduction targets have yet been set consistent with the paris targets. of course, the declared objectives often give rise to other objectives, perhaps less noble, less mobilizing. just look at the parade of multinationals that sponsored the madrid conference. as important as the objectives are the means, the instruments defined to achieve them. they tell us a lot about the interests that drive certain processes. perhaps not by chance, one of these instruments, the carbon market, was at the centre of the discussion in madrid, and it triggered contradictions that made the agreement unworkable. the monetisation of carbon, the buying and selling of the right to pollute the atmosphere, serves undeniable interests, not the interests of the people, nor genuine environmental objectives.
madam president, one thing i’m pleased about is that we are calling cop25 what it was: a failure. there were times in the past where there were fudges, where there were statements saying that there was progress made, blah, blah, blah. nothing really happened. at least now we are saying what it is and i congratulate commissioner timmermans and the others for so doing. it also, of course, gives us an opportunity – and particularly the new commission which cannot be blamed obviously for the failure last week – now to use the next 12 months to put pressure on the big emitters, those who are fudging and not living up to their commitments, to so do in 12 months’ time, and also to use our trading strength, especially in relation to future trade agreements; that countries will not be entertained if their products are not sustainable according to the promises and commitments they gave in paris a few years ago. i think if we can do that we will send a message to the rest of the world, and hopefully this time next year, we’ll be talking about cop26, as the cop on cop.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is very difficult to overstate the importance of cop26 in glasgow next year. so what we should be doing, starting from today, is to prepare well, as the european union, for that cop. this is a combination of doing the right things in europe and, at the same time, being extremely active on the international scene in climate diplomacy. and these are not two different things. you cannot separate these two roles. you need to do the same thing, both at the same time. what are the concrete things we should do internally to prepare? first of all, we need to prepare our climate law so that we can show the rest of the world that we put into law our commitment to be climate neutral by 2050. to do that, we should also indicate clearly what we would be doing intermittently because 2050 is a long way from now, but 2030 isn’t. it’s almost tomorrow, it’s only 10 years, but we should be able to determine what we do in 2030. to determine that precisely, we will do an impact assessment, but we need to do it in time so that we are timely in preparing our climate law and preparing the clear targets for 2030 so we can take that to the international conference. at the same time, we need to be rather quick in preparing a strategy that offers a future to our farming community with a from farm to fork strategy, which says clearly that we need our farmers more than before but in a different way. we should also look at ets. where can we improve the ets system? what is it going to do on shipping? how are we going to apply it in the airline area? what are we doing with different sectors in our economy on ets, etc., etc.? these things are urgent and we need to work on all these things at the same time. what are we going to do in our building environment? what are we going to do on biodiversity, which is intimately linked to this? i am mentioning all these subjects because, when you look at a conference like cop, on the surface it looks to be about emissions, but emissions are part of a much broader spectrum. what we’re proposing in the green deal is to actually reset our economy. our economy, our system, our welfare, our well—being depends almost fully today on carbon and we are dependent on that. we’re addicted to that. so we need to get rid of that addiction and we need to make sure that we can create the same level – or better levels – of well—being, welfare and prosperity without having to depend on carbon. that is a paradigm shift of unprecedented proportion – and it can only happen if we convince other parts of the world to follow suit because i do agree with those who say that if we only do this in europe, it’s only 9% of emissions and it will not have the effect we want on a global scale. but what is also true is that if we don’t do it in europe, we will have no arguments to convince others. i experienced – and i hope colleagues had the same experience in madrid – a lot of interest in many parts of the world for the european green deal and also a lot of interest in the idea of setting a target of being climate neutral in 2050. the rest of the international community is waking up to the fact that this is a completely new way of looking at things. it is no longer believing, like we did many years ago, that by taking incremental steps, eventually we’ll get there. we’re turning things round. we’re saying this is where we need to be in 2050 and then we take steps back until today and then we can chart exactly what needs to be done until then. our proposal is not a blueprint, it’s a roadmap. it would give us the opportunity, also through a climate pact, to make sure that the people who are on the streets, the people who have a stake in this – whether it’s in industry or in agriculture or in academia or in trade unions – are part of the conversation and the decision—making. that’s what the climate pact will be. so this is, i believe, what the european union has to offer to the rest of the world and we do it for the next generations. we do it because it’s inevitable. we do it because not doing it would be relinquishing our duty in light of the facts that can no longer be disputed, and in light of what science is telling us. we do not have the luxury to sit on our hands. we do not have the luxury to ignore this. we have the duty to act.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i wish to thank you for this very useful and timely debate. it is indeed disappointing that after years of hard work, and especially during the last two weeks, we could not agree on article 6, providing incentives to reduce emissions now, and especially in the future. as i said, the eu showed both determination and flexibility in order to reach the best possible results, notably as regards ambition and article 6. however, it is very difficult to negotiate with parties which refuse to engage. eventually, under these circumstances, our negotiators considered it safer to refrain from accepting a very bad deal on article 6. but at the same time we are happy that we managed to complete the second review of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage. this enables us to enhance our capacity to mobilise and catalyse effective action for averting, minimising and addressing loss and damage associated with climate change targets. i also welcome the new gender action plan. it strengthens gender considerations and women’s participation in climate action and highlights the important role of women as agents of change. dear friends, i’m sure this debate will contribute to informing a period of reflection in view of the forthcoming negotiations. i would especially like to thank commissioner timmermans for his passion and commitment to hard work. next year, dear friends, must be the year of increasing ambition. it must be the year of hope and the year of a high—quality agreement.
in writing. to say that the un climate summit cop25 was unlucky is not enough. it can be summed up in a few words: lack of agreement. there was no agreement on issues such as emissions trading, a common timeframe, common air quality metrics, reporting, ambition and climate targets. all we've been able to do is establish that we have a climate crisis and we need to act. that's really revealing. commissioner timmermans is tasked with raising the eu's 2030 reduction target from 40% to 50%, while at the same time working towards raising it to 55% in a responsible way. what does poland do in the meantime? the government is calling the summit a success because no one told us to give up coal. the draft energy policy for poland to 2040 published in november assumes that coal will still account for between 56 and 60% of electricity generation in 2030. as orlando a. battista once said, "a mistake doesn't become a mistake until you refuse to correct it", so let's stop using nature as a limitless credit card. it is time for decisive action, and the recent madrid summit shows that not everyone is aware of the seriousness of the situation.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm a member of the silesian parliament from rybnik. in my city, air pollution can exceed the norm by 1,000 percent for several months of the year. in poland, air pollution causes 44,000 premature deaths. it's like every year, a city bigger than santa claus disappears from her map. scientific studies conducted by the pediatric clinic and the clinic of pediatric neurosurgery in katowice show a strong correlation between smog inhalation and a higher than average incidence of central nervous system tumours in children. these are undeniable and frightening facts. and that is why i would like to express my deep disappointment with the results of the madrid climate summit, or rather the lack of any results. the lack of agreement means that all countries will have to re-examine their climate policies. so we're back to square one, we're putting off decisions for a while, and let's be clear, we're out of time! i hope that the european commission will continue to be ambitious and uncompromising in preparing the union's position for the next climate conference in glasgow, because i have no doubts about parliament. we feel a responsibility for the future of the planet and the next generations. i therefore urge all eu institutions and governments to understand the gravity of the situation, to agree on a common approach to overcome divisions and to work intensively together towards a green new deal for europe.
madam president! our relationship with animals is a testament to our humanity. of course, animals feel, suffer, fear death as we do. and we're talking about transporting livestock here, but i would like to say that in poland a month ago we had a big scandal and saved tigers from death, which were being transported from italy to azerbaijan. this also applies to animals transported to circuses. i personally am in favor of a total ban on the use of animals for such fancy, for our dubious pleasure. before christmas, the fish are transported without water. they're suffering too. so we have rules, but we have to enforce them. we need detailed and frequent checks, we need enforcement of travel logs, we need education and information. it's all in the hands of the services, which have to be active, and we have to force our services to actually pay attention to it. let's remember that animals are living beings and their rights must be enforced.
madam president, the issue of poor animal welfare during transport to third countries has been debated intensely. i think everyone in this room is aware of the suffering these animals endure. however, time and time again, independent reports showed the non-compliance and inconsistencies in enforcing existing rules. the recent case of tigers being transported from italy through europe to russia is just an example. we all have heard about the tragedy of more than 14 000 sheep in romania. i therefore call for limiting animal transport outside of the eu to no more than eight hours and banning transport of live animals to third countries if their standards do not match the eu standards. our target should be a total ban of transport of live animals as such.
madam president, every year we talk about the appalling way we treat animals, and yet we receive reports on animal welfare, we talk about welfare. when i see these cases, and this case of 14,000 dead sheep is a testament to the way we treat animals, i feel a great sense of shame. it's not true that we don't need to change the rules. we need to change the rules because the existing ones, in my opinion, are not, firstly, being respected and, secondly, are not sufficient. what do we need to focus on? exporting mainly slaughter animals, that is to say already dead, slaughtered animals, meat, that is the priority to transport meat, not live animals. if you're going to drive live animals, you have to do it for a certain distance, for a certain amount of time. if live animals are to be transported to third countries, they must meet the standards we're talking about here today. if third countries want european live animals, please let them pay for it.
madam president! i would like to refer again to the problem of transporting wild animals which i have already mentioned. in november, public opinion in poland was shocked by the news of the detention of a transport of bengal tigers, transported in scandalous conditions from italy to dagestan, at the polish-belarusian border. from italy, the transport was carried without any obstacles to the polish-belarusian border. in tragic conditions, the tigers were caged in tight cages, starving. of the ten animals, one died and the others were in a tragic condition. and it was only through last-minute intervention, through the actions of poznań zoo staff in cooperation with the animal advocates organization, that these animals were saved. given that this is a recurring issue, i wanted to ask the commission why the existing provisions of the 2005 animal welfare regulation are being disregarded and what it intends to do about it.
in writing. some people wonder if animals have rights. we, the citizens of europe in the 21st century, are convinced that they have a right to take human responsibility for their own destiny. and that belief requires us to treat them humanely. the eu gives priority to animal welfare, recognising the difficulties of applying its requirements beyond the community's borders. the rules on the transport of animals outside the union are the responsibility of the national institutions. each year, millions of animals are transported over long distances between member states and to third countries. you just have to stop at the border to see the animals crowded in there, waiting for hours for their turn to check documents and vehicles, in the sun, thirsty for water, treating each other. sick, injured and dead animals are found after a few days in the countries of destination. legislative action is justified to bring about bilateral agreements or a ban on the transport of animals if national standards are not in line with union law. at border crossing points, there should be places where animals can be watered and fed. you might consider suspending transportation for the summer. it seems reasonable and advisable to switch to mainly trade in meat instead of transporting live animals or to limit the transport time to eight hours. research indicates that this could have a positive economic impact.
mr president, i voted against this resolution condemning poland because i believe that the european union should not interfere in the social policy of its member states. i also denounce the discriminatory way in which the european parliament is treating poland. he has already stigmatized her because of an alleged project to criminalize sex education, now he attacks her because of stickers distributed by some local authorities and bearing the inscription "lgbti ideology-free zone". i am of course against any discrimination against people on the grounds of their sexual orientation. but in this case, i think it's something else, a critique of the fatal ideology of gender. in any case, if clarification is needed, the union should ask poland for it respectfully, not by throwing such a brutal resolution in its face.
mr president, by strongly adopting this resolution against hate speech and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, this european parliament is making history, and it is doing so on the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. so it's absurd, in this house, to have to hear that sexual orientation is an ideology. it's not a good idea. the freedom to love one another without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is part of fundamental rights in the european union and therefore the country that contradicts this is contradicting the law of the european union. at the time when the anniversary of stonewall is being commemorated, at the time when - as we recalled here yesterday - the international day of disabled persons is being commemorated, we must know that europe still has a lot to do; that when the 2020 strategy is being implemented, we must continue to remove barriers to discrimination in employment, in health care, but the most intolerable discrimination is that which discriminates on grounds of sexual orientation, and this is contrary to european law.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i had the honour as minister of the interior and administration to sit in the law and justice government, in this government which is today so foolishly, and even pyramidally, untruthfully attacked. when i hear from representatives of the left that today in poland the law and justice government discriminates against lgbt people, i want to tell you that as minister of the interior myself and the services under me, such as the police, have always protected people who felt threatened. it is of no importance to me, to my government, to my party, what sexual orientation a citizen of the republic has. every citizen deserves protection, including homosexuals. i am ashamed as a pole that this pyramidal nonsense, these pyramidal untruths that fall from your lips here, were inspired by representatives also from poland, representatives sitting on the left side of the room. they, unlike you, i'm sure, know how much they've been lying. no one in poland today is persecuting homosexuals, they are not persecuting because of their sexual orientation. it's a pyramid scheme of bullshit, a pyramid scheme of lies.
mr. chairman, i am very cautious and careful in tax matters. i almost never vote for any kind of unification within the european union. the legislation is quite sufficient in my view. but even this reservation could not prevent me from supporting this resolution. so i supported him for a number of reasons. first, the proposals traditionally put forward by the european left, for example, for the same corporate tax rate, were not adopted. i have to say that the digitisation of the economy is a very serious issue for clear collective action. here, tax revenues can really be diverted to various tax havens, it is a very simple way and i welcome the fact that there is a common european action in this area of the economy, which is really booming. that is why i supported this motion for a resolution after the various proposals from the left to improve it failed.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this project because i believe that we should do everything we can to combat tax fraud and so-called creative accounting effectively. i also share parliament's call for the commission and the member states to address the challenges of effectively taxing the digital economy in the union. finally, we must put an end to the situation where digital companies generate huge profits in the member states but pay no tax on them simply because they are based outside the european union. i believe that in the absence of unanimity among the member states on this matter, the treaty procedures should be used, allowing for qualified majority voting on tax matters.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! of course i supported the resolution. the situation in which a journalist is murdered in a democratic country, in a country that is a member of the european union, and there are so many question marks, is a very disturbing one. and there could be no other position than to support this resolution. i have, however, abstained on paragraph 8 because it states that failure by malta to implement judicial reform could be grounds for initiating the article 7 procedure. we have a situation where a journalist is murdered. we have a situation practically every week on the streets of paris, in france, where people demonstrating are subjected to tremendous repression by the police forces. people are dying. they're hurt. we have a situation in spain, in barcelona. finally, we have a situation where article 7 is not applied in any of these countries, but it is applied to my country, poland. why would you do that? that we are reforming the judiciary - a judiciary that has its roots in the totalitarian state of the communist era. well, there's a kind of logical inconsistency here.
madam president, bolsonaro announced that brazil will withdraw from the paris agreement on climate change and that it will continue to deforest the amazon. the european union announced that it would not sign trade agreements with countries that did not ratify the paris agreement. a few weeks ago this parliament declared a climate emergency, and a few days ago the commission presented a pompous green new deal, but all of this is wet paper when we talk about trade at the service of multinationals. the european union is still negotiating with the negationist, misogynist and far-right government of bolsonaro a trade agreement with mercosur, another case of the hypocrisy that governs european economic policy. declaring a climate emergency is incompatible with an agreement that favours intensive agro-industry, extractivism and deforestation, and that will also increase the persecution of human rights defenders in brazil, as the sakharov prize finalists have denounced today in this house. if the question is whether this mercosur agreement is compatible with the new green deal, the answer is no. we're in time to change and tear this deal down.
madam president, trade agreements are necessary for any serious economic activity. from the farmers' point of view, however, it is rather difficult to talk today about the compatibility between the mercosur agreement and the ecological pact. the mercosur agreement raises standards issues in three major areas where we need firm answers. in terms of fighting climate change, it's complicated for us to be talking about sustainability of forests within the european union, to be allocating serious financial resources to this, while the mercosur countries are deliberately burning their forests to make way for beef or soy production. we discuss the farm-to-fork strategy as part of climate change and impose high quality standards on food produced by farmers in the european union. in the mercosur countries, however, we have far from the same standards. moreover, we have had imports of rotten meat from brazil that the specialised services within the european union have not been able to detect. commissioner, do we have any guarantee today that the same thing will not happen in the future? farmers in the european union rightly have a number of restrictions on the use of pesticides, antibiotics and growth hormones, but farmers in mercosur do not have these obligations. that is why we must ensure that this agreement gives us firm answers to our concerns, so that we can strike a balance between the farmers of mercosur and those of the european union.
madam president, commissioner hogan, ladies and gentlemen, with the green deal the european union wants to make a new pact with its citizens and consumers. this commitment, thanks to the 'field to table' strategy, can be further strengthened and directed towards food quality, both in terms of the quality of the product, which is nutritious and healthy, and in terms of the production process, which is fair, sustainable and transparent. european farmers and producers are ready to take up this challenge, further strengthening our production standards, which are already among the most advanced globally. we can 't afford to leave them alone . we must instead give value to their efforts and protect them from any unfair competition with producers in third countries. this is a goal that can no longer be postponed, mr commissioner, but it cannot be limited to the mercosur pact alone. only through a new and ambitious european food diplomacy, based on reciprocity of production standards between the union and all our trading partners, can we become true global benchmarks in the definition of agricultural and food production standards.
i have to say, madam president, the mercosur agreement will undoubtedly be of benefit to us all. i think we can all agree on that. the agreement is thus an end in itself. and it must not end up being a means to something else. for the same reason, what is happening in brazil is of course deeply disturbing. the burning of the amazon is absurd in every way when we are trying to solve these climate challenges together. that is why, of course, pressure must also be put on the brazilian government. president bolsonaro needs the mercosur agreement more than anyone. that, of course, is what is crucial here. he needs it more than we do. he may not be interested in climate, but he's certainly interested in economics. that is why it would also be an unforgivable political blunder if, after 20 years of hard work, the agreement were to be thrown on the floor as a bargaining chip because it had not been put together properly. the best way to promote both growth and the green transition is through the effective implementation and enforcement of the mercosur agreement, not only because the agreement commits brazil to comply with the paris agreement, but also because more trade means fewer barriers. the key to prosperity is to spread concrete european green solutions around the world. so use it wisely, and do not use it as a bargaining chip.
madam president, european negotiators at the madrid climate talks like to position themselves as leaders on climate change, but we are still ignoring the science and failing to tell the truth on climate. the truth is that we need to achieve net zero carbon by 2030, and this means a radical transformation of the way we live across the european continent. we are also hypocrites, as we focus attention narrowly on our direct carbon emissions whilst ignoring the co2 embodied in the goods we consume that have been imported. the european green deal is pointless if we do not combine it with an enlightened trade policy. brazil’s president bolsonaro saw the provisional mercosur agreement as a green light to invite ranchers to destroy the amazon and murder its indigenous people. a genuine green deal means a radical shift towards low—energy lifestyles in our continent and an enlightened trade policy embedded in the protection of our precious climate, which we must respect as a common good for all humanity.
madam president, unfortunately the debate on trade agreements and trade in general is becoming increasingly ideologised and politicised. i have seen this in the last parliament, but it has got worse. recently, we've faced attempts to delay or even torpedo the consent process for a trade agreement with vietnam on the basis of fabricated accusations. now the mercosur agreement is on the table only because the european parliament's left does not like bolsonaro ruling brazil. instead of talking about tariffs, quotas, geographical indications, all the things that are related to trade policy, we are dealing here more and more with human rights, labour legislation, environmental standards. these are all topics that belong to other bodies of the european parliament than the committee on international trade. if we've imposed the green deal on ourselves, i respect that, but let's also respect that other countries in the world have chosen a different path. if we don't want to trade with them, we're going to get into a situation where we're going to slowly close our trade borders with almost everyone, and i don't think that's possible. so let's really bring the trade debate back to the business topics.
madam president, it is extraordinary that this parliament, this sitting, which this morning welcomed mr raoni and mr claudelice silva dos santos as finalists for the sakharov prize, defenders of the amazon rainforest, is this afternoon asking whether the eu-mercosur agreement is compatible with the green deal. no, it's not a good one. and we have to choose sides. we can either take the side of those who defend the amazon and the forest, or we can take the side of agribusiness. this question is merely a pretext to find excuses and to put us on the side of agribusiness. there is no possible match. this deal is a death sentence for the amazon. this deal is a prize for bolsonaro, yes, and when we say no to the deal we are also saying no to bolsonaro. this agreement is an insult to indigenous peoples, human rights defenders and defenders. this deal is throwing the paris agreement out the window, and if you have any questions, ask bolsonaro. he's already said he's withdrawing and i heard today that even without a deal, the paris agreement will remain. so i don't know, they're too gullible or they're too hypocritical and i'd rather be on the side of the defenders of the amazon than the hypocrites.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the trade relationship between mercosur and the european union today is worth, as is well known, more than 120 billion euros in goods and services. it is an important and valuable package which, as mr simon mentioned a moment ago, now lies within the commercial realm outside of specific rules that can preside over the expectations that many colleagues have mentioned, including, for example, expectations in relation to the green deal. well, it strikes me that the green party has decided to react so strongly to the fact that there is a popular president of the european commission who has made the green deal a priority. the reaction is disordered. they have decided, having been deprived of the subject that interests them most, to play the most dangerous game in politics, that of who gets the bigger shot to recover some space in that sphere which they normally managed. that's not how you do it. green deal is two words. green and deal, "deal" means agreement, sit down and think, it's a challenge for all of us or take responsibility for what you say. you want to block all trade deals? the proposal is that all trade deals, using the green deal's gag, must be blocked now, that is, do you want to turn the green deal not into a challenge for everyone, but into the grave of this continent? do you want to turn europe into a closed and unavailable continent? well, the green deal is a different story for us. we decided to work for the people, not for four votes like you are doing.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. you inherited a cuckoo egg. they have presented you with a document written in a completely foreign language which, as you can see from this debate, few of us understand because we cannot. today europe and the world speak a very different language, a very different set of values than they used to. this agreement, written over 20 years, glorifies a religion that no longer functions in the world today. a religion that puts money before human rights and climate protection, a religion that has led to the fact that today the amazon is burning and human rights are being violated in brazil. this hypocrisy cannot be supported by many of my colleagues in this house, and it is not supported by the people of our countries, the people who are taking to the streets to protest against these agreements. and that's why we have to do everything we can to make sure that this agreement is written in the language of the modern world, of people who are taking to the streets to defend human rights, to defend the climate. because how do we look at the people who, on the one hand, we give awards here for human rights in brazil or climate protection, and on the other hand, we sell these human rights and climate protection for more cars and more cell phones? this can't be happening.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we are faced with a serious dilemma today. on the one hand, the trade agreement with the mercosur countries is estimated to contribute eur 19 trillion to gdp. it is expected to generate €88 billion in trade in goods, €34 billion in services. on the other hand, we are aware that the agreement could contribute to the deforestation of perhaps the world's most valuable forest resource, the reservoir of biodiversity, the amazon forest, which is being cut down, burned down, mostly deliberately cleared to make room for crops, including forage. it is proposed that the trade agreement with the mercosur countries be used to enforce compliance by these countries with the provisions of the paris agreement and to halt deforestation in the amazon. however, it can also lead to an increase in co2 emissions caused by transport. will the mercosur agreement be able to enforce on our partners the level of reduction in the use of pesticides, plant protection products and fertilizers proposed by the new green deal, and thus meet the criteria of animal welfare and food safety that a french, german or polish farmer must meet? the eu-mercosur agreement is not the only form of pressure we have. we know, for example, that european banks are investing millions in south american agriculture that does not meet the equivalence criteria. so maybe it's worth taking a different approach. first the standards, then the agreement, as is the case with the accession of new candidate countries to the european union.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 december 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian situation in venezuela and the migration and refugee crisis (2019/2952 ((rsp)).
mr president, imagine a young boy, about 13 years old. he goes to school to get an education that every child deserves. imagine that the teacher, whom the boy trusts, lures the boy into a dark room and rapes him. the boy is very brave and speaks out about his story, but when he goes to a police station, he is raped again. the boy’s family is so ashamed that they threw him out of their house. but at least, they did not kill him. this is not an isolated incident. it is a reality for hundreds of confirmed cases in the afghani province of logar, where teachers and local authority officials have been implicated in the sexual abuse ring. and now, imagine that we would not do anything about it.
