mr president, yes, indeed. on behalf of the s&d group, and also because i knew him personally, i need also to tell you something about the meaning of this terrible murder of the mayor of gdańsk, mr paweł adamowicz. i knew him as an outstanding local leader, a mayor elected several times, and someone who really represented and was a symbol of an open society, able to deal with strong support on human rights, and also defending minorities wherever they are. i remember him saying, in a difficult situation, that yes, gdańsk will be in a position to receive refugees in need of protection and asylum in europe. and this is just an example of the kind of things he was able to deliver. so yes, it is really shocking that all of a sudden all the arguments we need to have in democratic institutions are just replaced by knives in an ugly murder. this is something we cannot accept. and let me be clear: we will stand behind those who are in favour of an open society and defending human rights, whatever the price. (applause)
mr president, this is also a highly relevant and topical issue, and i think that parliament should therefore condemn another chapter in the history of venezuela which is aggravating the dramatic crisis in which the country has been plunged. despite the rejection of the international community, nicolas maduro has been sworn in for a second term and i think the european parliament should pass a resolution declaring the maduro government illegitimate and calling for new presidential elections. it is a dramatic situation that has been going on for four years, with a lack of medicines and people fleeing the country. we are talking about three million venezuelans who have left the country out of fear, who have left the country out of violence and lack of conditions. we are talking about a failed state, we are talking about a state which has forced the return of people of portuguese descent and venezuelans, including to my island of madeira, and therefore i think it is not enough just to support them in our countries, we must make the venezuelan people's voice heard and we must also support them here in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, (inaudible) against because the s&d group is open to having this debate, but we would prefer to have it tomorrow evening; not today. this will help us to have a more precise position during the debate. so we would like to have the debate, yes – but tomorrow evening. there is a solution for this, because if you add this as a new item in the evening and you extend the session until 12.00 p.m., this is possible.
madam president, i welcome the work of the rapporteurs who, on such a sensitive subject, have used their common sense to put the scientific evidence above the negative campaign based on false data, which many are trying to pass off as electoral gain. the epp does not indulge in these populist tendencies, but always stands by its constituents in defending their rights, in providing the best information available and in seeking the best solutions. the same applies to agriculture, which many people want to make out to be the sector responsible for the poor use of these products. this is totally false. not only are pesticides used by a wide range of people and professions, but farmers are the main stakeholders in their responsible use. i would remind you that the most recent study on the presence of pesticide residues in the agri-food sector showed that 97.2% of the samples in europe were within the legal limits of european union legislation, which is a testimony to a very strict food production system and the safest in the world. european citizens can therefore trust their institutions and the supervisory bodies. that is also what i have been able to put into the document for which i was responsible in the committee on agriculture. it is clear that there is always room for improvement and that is why i welcome the increase in funding, both for the european food safety authority and for the member states' authorities, so that these bodies can develop their work even better. that is why we are here, we are working to build up the confidence of europeans in our europe.
madam president, i welcome the reference in the report to the need to strengthen research and innovation in the field of crop protection. this should be our main approach: to seek new technical solutions and methodologies which will make it possible to reduce the use of plant protection products in a sustainable way and, where their use is necessary, to do so in the most efficient and targeted way, always with the principle of precaution and the protection of human, animal and environmental health as undisputed priorities. we will also have to ensure that farmers have the tools at their disposal to ensure that their crops are properly protected and that they are able to run their farms. as such, the authorisation system for these products in the european union, while always based on the most rigorous scientific criteria, should be an agile system capable of providing solutions to the great diversity of european agricultural production, particularly in more challenging situations such as those we find in the outermost regions.
madam president, the creation of this special committee on the authorization procedures for pesticides was the result of public suspicion about the rigor and transparency of these procedures. this suspicion did not fall from the sky. the promiscuity between the european commission, its agencies and the interests of industry, dominated by transnational giants, in the case of chemicals and pharmaceuticals, is well known. the principles of prevention and precaution are not always duly taken into account in the authorisation procedures. it is public health and the preservation of the environment that must prevail over the interests of industry, its profit expectations and not the other way around. risk analysis cannot be used as a justification for turning this basic principle on its head. this applies both to the necessary authorization for monitoring the impact of what already exists on the market, to the management of innovation processes and to the large-scale application of new products.
i would like to congratulate the romanian presidency on taking over the presidency and i would also ask it to support this dossier so that we can conclude it during this term of office. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow on the use of driverless rental vehicles in road freight transport - which is part of the first mobility package - aims to adapt a directive that has been in force for 25 years and thus gradually adapt the market for the use of these vehicles, adapting it, of course, to the needs of the industry and taking account of the very developments on the transport market. what we are proposing is that member states should not restrict the use of a rental vehicle by an undertaking established in another member state within their own territory, provided that the vehicle obviously meets the requirements and operational and safety standards. in this way we are unlocking the potential of a rental and leasing market which, as we know, is made up mainly of small and mediumsized enterprises and which obviously looks forward to the possibility of creating more jobs. however, in order to avoid market distortions, which are obviously due to the existence of different levels of taxation, this document provides for the possibility for member states to limit the use of vehicles hired by an undertaking established in another member state to their territory for a period of time or to the total number of vehicles hired, provided that it allows the use of this vehicle on its territory for at least four consecutive months or, on the other hand, to limit the number of vehicles hired to 25% of the total fleet of this undertaking. and if the fleet consists of more than one or less than four vehicles, authorise the rental of at least one vehicle. for the correct implementation of this legislative act, we propose that all information on the rental vehicle be placed in the national electronic registers and that the exchange of information between member states be carried out through the internal market information system, as the proposal is in other dossiers of the mobility package itself. this proposal will make it possible to achieve the single market in this specific area without doing so abruptly, and also by achieving compliance with the social and market rules, especially in the union's freight transport. i therefore appeal to all members not to support amendments which discriminate between rental and private vehicles and which create further obstacles to the development of this sector and the achievement of the single european transport area. let them say 'no' to exceptions that block a greener, greener, safer fleet, such as restrictions on vehicles weighing more than six tonnes; let them say 'no' to measures that block the needs of operators to be able to respond to seasonal peaks and let them say 'no' to proposals that fall on workers, because we are, in effect, referring to a directive that explicitly says 'no drivers'. moreover, all vehicles put into circulation in the union must comply with the established emission limits and we must not therefore create european legislative redundancies that say 'no' to the amendment of legislative acts, through this we cannot change them through others and tomorrow we will vote on this report in favour of the transport market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i now ask you to support the text adopted at the june part-session in the vote tomorrow. in this way we can have a text which will bring legal clarity. it is a market which, as has already been said here, has potential which must be unlocked by us, which must be unlocked here by the european parliament. a flexible rental market which will benefit the cross-border and national freight transport market of the member states and in particular be able to respond to seasonal peaks and to one-off demand. it will bring environmental benefits, because we are talking about a fleet of rental vehicles that is on average four to six years old, is more recent than the fleet of the companies themselves, and therefore brings greater safety to the roads. a proposal which will benefit companies because it will enable them to invest in other areas of development rather than in the fleet itself, which is often underused because of the different rental rules in different countries. we do not need to differentiate between rental and own vehicles, because in the union the regulatory framework is clear and all vehicles in circulation in the union must comply with the emission limits set by european legislation. we must not maintain the limit of more than six tonnes because its application runs counter to the general objectives for the development of the single european transport area. we should allow member states to limit the use of these vehicles for four consecutive months in order to avoid a tax carousel and, of course, to respond to the existing tax differences. finally, we must not create a culture in this parliament of amending legislative acts under discussion by means of other acts. the correct application of this directive will be achieved by including all information in the national electronic registers and by using market information systems.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank ms mlinar for her second report on gender mainstreaming and the work of the european parliament for this legislature. for the eu and its institutions, gender mainstreaming is not a choice. it is an obligation. it is in the treaty. it is in the acquis. it is in the charter of fundamental rights. gender equality is still not a tangible reality for all. indicators are stagnating. if there is any change towards more equality, it is often quite marginal. this also true unfortunately for eu institutions. the gender balance among the members of the european parliament has hardly changed since 2009, from 35% to 36.4%, and women currently account for 32.1% of european commissioners, or nine out of 28. within the european parliament, the share of women in senior or middle management positions also remains low. in a democracy, gender equality in political office matters. more gender balance in eu institutions can increase citizens’ trust in the eu and improve the functioning of our democracies. indeed, as ms mlinar has stressed, this year political parties and the member states have a chance to show their commitment to gender equality and ensure a balanced representation of women and men in the european parliament and in the top positions of the european institutions. i reiterate my plea for gender balanced nominations. public administrations must be in tune with the people they serve. at the beginning of the mandate of this commission, president juncker set an in-house target of 40% women in middle and senior management by the end of the mandate. by 1 november 2018, women accounted for 37% at senior management level in the commission, while at middle management level, the target of 40% has already been met. the progress comes after sustained efforts to identify, develop and support female talents through targeted initiatives. besides taking stock of the progress during the legislature, the report sets the scene for the next one, and i very much welcome this forward-looking approach. as you know, the commission’s strategic engagement for gender equality has been our framework for promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming in the eu and beyond. it ends in 2019, together with the term of this commission. so in 2019, we are also taking stock of the progress, identifying gaps and contributing to setting priorities for the future. in this context, the views of parliament are very welcome. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. other madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague angelika mlinar on the excellent work she has done on the report 'gender mainstreaming in the european parliament', which i had the honour of being one of the shadow rapporteurs on and which reflects well the commitment of this parliament to promoting more equal treatment. i would like to mention that in october 2017 i had the opportunity to condemn what has become known in this house as the harvey weinstein scandal, the consequences of which have also affected this parliament. but despite the various civil society movements that have been reporting similar situations, the truth is that we continue to silence sexual harassment by colleagues and staff in this parliament. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is time to say enough and i hope that the strengthening of the powers of the advisory committee on sexual harassment will help to put an end to the culture of fear that still exists and that we will finally have a genuine zero-tolerance policy towards this kind of behaviour. while it is true and absolutely necessary to recognise that at the root of these behaviours there are lingering marks of inequality in power relations between men and women, it is also crucial to me that recruitment and selection for positions of decision-making responsibility be made on the basis of merit and competence and not solely, or primarily, on the basis of positive discrimination criteria. although there were some differences between the various political groups during the preparation of this report on systems such as the imposition of gender quotas on the lists for this year's european elections and the inclusion of the gender perspective in all dimensions of the european union budget, the truth is that the final document we will vote on tomorrow is quite ambitious and balanced and reflects our conviction in a fairer and more fraternal europe, where equal opportunities are not just a mirage but something to be proud of. i therefore call on all members to vote in favour of this document, which i am sure will help to promote parity and a balanced representation of women and men in the next parliament.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, a happy new year. i would like to tell the honourable member that we have no more men in the women's committee because they do not want to, even in their own group. in 2003, the european parliament committed itself to adopting an action programme for gender mainstreaming, including in the functioning of its committees and delegations. 16 years later, we're sitting here discussing the same issue. we are still underrepresented. as has been said here, 36% of the members of this parliament are women and this is a flagrant case of lack of gender perspective. i would like to mention the case of the portuguese socialist party, which for the second time in a row will present a fully equal list for the european elections and it would be good if other member states followed this example within their parties. in addition, in 2017, seven women were part of the composition of the parliament's bureau, out of a total of twenty elements. we can say that it is better, but as far as the leadership of this institution is concerned, we are down to 33%. the data, in fact, don't seem to be in our favor.
madam president, commissioner, the principle of the separation of church and state is a guiding principle of the organisation of any democratic state which implies the rejection of any religious interference in the functioning of public institutions, as well as any public interference in religious affairs. for us europeans, freedom of religion, belief and conscience, more than rights, are basic universal values which we can never renounce, lest the very essence of what we stand for, a democratic, free and just europe, lose all meaning. that is why this house has sought to honour the victims of religious persecution and conviction through the sakharov prize. for all this, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the commission on the effort it has made over the past few years to strengthen the promotion of freedom of religion and the prevention of religious extremism, whether through the european union's global strategy for foreign and security policy or through the eu action plan for human rights and democracy. i would like to conclude by saying that the creation of the post of special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union has proved to be a very good move by the commission in recognising the primacy of freedom of religion or belief in the face of the resurgence of religious fundamentalism.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking ernest urtasun and the whole team who worked to make this report a reality. it's been an honor to work with these people in particular. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various parliamentary groups for their contributions and willingness to negotiate. gender inequalities in the european union are a sad reality. the house has already adopted numerous resolutions, which have been discussed and debated on a number of occasions, identifying the various dimensions of inequality between men and women and calling for action to combat it. but let's face it. to combat them, we need to have a gender perspective in all policies and not just statements of intent that change nothing. one of the key areas for this fight is taxation. women are underrepresented in the labour market, with an overall employment rate 12% lower than that of men, and of those women who work, one third do so only part-time. the gender pay gap is 16%, and in pensions it is 40%. years and years of cumulative effect of the various disparities. not only do they earn less, but they are the women who interrupt their careers the most and they are the women who devote the most time to caring for children or family members with disabilities or with permanent support needs. in the european union, 80% of care is provided by informal carers, 75% of whom are women. the direct and indirect taxation policies are also unfavourable to women. the regressive policies we have seen in recent years in taxing labour, companies, consumption or wealth have weakened the redistributive capacity of tax regimes and have resulted in increased income inequality as well as in a structural change in taxation that has shifted the tax burden onto lower income groups, particularly affecting women. with this report, we present specific recommendations to governments to tackle these inequalities in four distinct areas. firstly, in direct taxation, whether in the taxation of personal income, corporation tax or capital and wealth tax. secondly, in indirect taxation, in particular the vat schemes which burden women when basic necessities and hygiene goods continue to be taxed as if they were luxury goods. thirdly, the impact of tax evasion and avoidance that directly affect the resources available to the public services that promote equality par excellence. fourth, and finally, the mainstreaming of gender equality in tax policies, in particular through regular gender impact assessments of tax policies. nothing in this report is impossible to achieve if there is a real political will to ensure that women and men are treated equally. that is the signal that parliament must give tomorrow when it votes on this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 began with a climate of heightened tension between mainland china and the island of taipei. in the face of the refusal of the president of the republic of china on taiwan, tsai ing-wen, to peacefully reunify with communist china, president xi jinping renewed the threat of using military force to counter the interference of outside forces and what he called a small number of taiwanese separatists. these divisions become even more dangerous at a time when taiwan could become a pawn in the trade and political war between china and the united states, threatening the security of the entire asia-pacific region where countries with nuclear capabilities are known to exist. although it has no formal diplomatic ties with taiwan and subscribes to the one-china policy, it is with this island and not mainland china that the european union shares the same values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law and therefore cannot but condemn any attempt to determine the future of taiwan by non-peaceful means. i believe that the european union has a moral obligation to support taiwan at this difficult time in its collective history.
madam president, commissioner avramopoulos, madam secretary of state, during the first two weeks of this new year, one person per day died trying to reach our borders. last year, 2018, we had probably the deadliest ratio ever, with more than one death for every hundred arrivals. new asylum applications are declining, and yet five countries continue to host almost 75% of people. given the recent populist narrative, you might think that at least the return of those who have no right to remain in europe was going well. but it's not true. here too governments fail. the commission also found that the average profit margin of the sampled union producers was below the average profit margin of the sampled union producers. we were able to strengthen frontex and we are about to do it again. it would be hoped that we would at least be able to create the european asylum agency, one of the eight structural measures proposed. here too, the governments have not allowed any action to be taken, as mr diaz de mera has already said. madam secretary of state, what do you intend to do in these four months of your presidency? will the council finally respect and listen to this parliament? no doubt about it, madam secretary of state: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the economic crisis.
the seawatch saga shows the hypocrisy of european governments who call themselves christian, but not even the pope listens. the commission can thank them for this, but it was the governments of italy and malta who prevented 49 shipwrecked people from disembarking for more than two weeks, even though 10 governments were already prepared to take them in. we've been blessed by ngos that persist in saving lives. the citizens need to know that it is the council, where the governments sit, which is blocked in the reform of the dublin regulation, preventing a common asylum policy. parliament has done its job. the fictitious libyan 'coast guard', the khartoum and valetta processes, the eu-turkey 'agreement' and the readmission agreements invoked today by the romanian presidency, as well as the horrendous 'walls' around ceuta and melilla, are products of an illusory 'fortress europe'. and in fact, they fuel the business of human trafficking mafias, who exploit the lack of legal and safe routes for migrants and refugees to access. the council, which is stuck on this issue, is undermining europe's values and future by helping to spread populism and xenophobic hatred, such as the one that killed a courageous politician who was fighting against them in gdansk.
the reform of the asylum system and migration policy is fundamental to respond to the humanitarian crisis we are witnessing in the mediterranean and in africa, and it calls to our deepest responsibility as uncompromising defenders of human rights and the dignity of the human person, but also of solidarity, which we advocate for ourselves. the european union cannot simply ignore the problem it faces on a daily basis, and rely on disorganized and unilateral solutions, which are often reactive. reform of asylum policy is urgently needed to reduce illegal migration, prevent secondary movements, reduce abuses by traffickers, and ensure that asylum applications are processed swiftly and fairly.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, chancellor, the austrian presidency started with an important motto, which was ‘a europe that protects’, and indeed we need a europe that protects. but we can see that the austrian presidency was delivering more of another kind of europe: a europe of fears, retrenchment and a certain kind of selfishness. we regret this, because we need a strong europe with strong ambition – so strong and so ambitious that we can provide the necessary solidarity. this started with the refugee drama. we could have delivered quick, swift operations of rescuing and providing asylum. but we were confronted with several dramatic scenes in the mediterranean, and we deplored this. europe needs to define a fully-fledged migration policy to ensure the orderly, organised management of migration – because we do need migration. instead, we were blocking some of the key pieces of this migration policy. then we had the episode of the global compact for migration, which we very much deplore. this was endorsed by most of the countries in the world, and we saw in marrakesh some of the member states of the european union not endorsing it, led by the austrian government – something we again deplore and something we just cannot understand. but this lack of ambition and solidarity also has connected with our citizens. let us take the european social pillar – the biggest initiative we have. the austrian presidency could have delivered more quickly on the full package of directives and regulations which are necessary to implement the social pillar. we could not understand how it was even possible for the austrian presidency to postpone a meeting of the council of ministers. we are in a hurry, chancellor, to implement this pillar in order to turn this into reality. and then we have the important negotiations on the multiannual budget. yes, this is necessary to meet the new challenges in europe and also to keep a strong commitment to cohesion. we were really disappointed that, in the last european council, it was decided that the final agreement should take place only in autumn. this is too late. a lot of regions will suffer from this. we have the conditions to get the basic agreement before this, and we don’t understand why the austrian presidency was not able to put forward a more ambitious schedule to finalise this negotiation. then we had another opportunity on eurozone reform – something on which we have been waiting for years and years. the solutions are on the table. we might be close to an agreement enabling us to complete the banking union and to create the budget for the eurozone, something all monetary zones in the world have – they have a budget. but again, the austrian presidency was hesitating over this. this is a crucial piece to reset cohesion inside the eurozone and to overcome the divergences we have in this important area of european construction. then tax fairness. yes, we do need a new digital tax and we need to deliver this in a much quicker way. i must tell you, chancellor, that from our viewpoint, the austrian presidency missed some key opportunities to deliver a stronger europe, which we need in this particular occasion, because we are confronted with a new movement of ideas, calling for retrenchment, selfishness, a far right movement. in the face of this, we basically have a choice: either we make an alliance with them and make concessions to them, or we present a real fully-fledged alternative – a strong europe, ambitious and able to provide solidarity. so this is the way to go for us social democrats, and we really think that we need to move to a new phase where this new kind of leadership emerges in europe. so these are our remarks, chancellor.
president of the european commission. mr president, i do not think it would be advisable for me to add anything to what has been said that would not appear to be a supplementary contribution to the content of this debate. i would like to thank the austrian presidency once again. i would like to say to those who think it is appropriate to criticise me for making timid remarks to the austrian federal government on the migration pact that i am not speaking here only on my own behalf, but on behalf of the whole commission and many people in this house. the assessment of those who think that this is not part of the democratic debate is a fundamental error. but overall i agree with those who say that the austrian presidency is pragmatic. the austrian presidency has had it, and the results are such that this presidency will go down as a particularly successful one in the recent history of european council presidencies. we should like to thank the chancellor and the federal government for this.
the president of the council. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. i don't have much more to say. i would like to thank you for your cooperation. i also want to thank you for the positive words now. the european union's motto is 'united in diversity' and not 'separated in equality'. this means that it is perfectly legitimate to have different opinions on matters of substance, to take different positions even between the political groups. that is the european union, and that is also the democratic member states. i believe that it is important, however, that despite our differences in the areas where we need to make progress, we also make progress together. this is often very, very complex in a european union of 28 member states and three institutions. i am glad that we have succeeded in so many areas: in the 53 trilogues, in the mff negotiations and also in many other areas where we have been able to reach agreement in the council, at least among the member states. in this sense, thank you for your cooperation, good luck to the romanian presidency and thank you again for the hospitality here in the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
in writing. the euro is now 20 years old. the single currency was presented at the time as the key instrument that would accelerate social and territorial convergence within the european union. the reality of the last two decades shows that the euro, far from meeting expectations, has promoted social and economic divergence, becoming an instrument of domination that has imposed on the national states the neoliberal recipes prescribed by the european union. in this sense, the liberation from the constraints of portugal's membership of the economic and monetary union is now more than ever inseparable from our project of a patriotic left-wing policy.
mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister dăncilă. the romanian presidency will be that country’s first presidency and the last presidency before the european elections. so this will be a very important presidency, and let me focus particularly on the sibiu summit, because the sibiu summit is our last opportunity to project another kind of europe for all citizens across europe before the european elections. so let me tell you what our expectations are, our wishes for the kind of europe we’d like to project using the sibiu summit. we think that you are coming up with the right priorities. in order to have strong unity among europeans cohesion is certainly the key word – as you said: economic, social, political cohesion. we are with you in this central priority and you can turn this into something very concrete. the first thing is a social pillar translated into european law and powerful european financial instruments. the second thing is a pre-agreement on the multiannual budget, on which cohesion is a central concern, both for all eu member states and the eurozone. then there is a third very important issue: yes europe is counting on the european border, hopefully with romania already included in the schengen area. the fourth one is better partnerships with all our neighbouring regions, including our course eastern partners, which are very dear to us. and then if we manage all these issues it will be easier to manage migration properly. finally, if we have this kind of europe we will have unity whatever happens with brexit. so this is a very important historical task, but also an opportunity.
in writing. the romanian presidency of the council of the european union, in addition to its intrinsic importance, has an added political importance, since it is within its framework that the elections to the european parliament will be held. the priorities defined are those appropriate to respond to the aspirations and expectations that european citizens have been showing in opinion polls, namely the strengthening of cohesion and convergence and the strengthening of the relationship between cohesion and security. the focus on strengthening the role of the european union as a global actor is also a key priority, as is the development of shared values in the context of major geopolitical and geostrategic instability. the key to the success of the romanian presidency will be the ability to turn words into action. in this area, the strengthening of transparency and the practice of the values it seeks to promote in its own territory is a condition of credibility. the progress made in the drafting of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework will also be the touchstone for the realisation of the very timely and positive vision of focusing on cohesion and convergence. the success of the romanian presidency, which is now taking place, will be an excellent signal for the european project.
the question that should be asked here is whether or not we have a financial system that can solve the problems of the economy, and the truth is that the same financial system is still a problem for the european union rather than a solution. we remain concerned about the clearing of bank assets without questioning the mechanisms that were at the origin of the speculative spiral that was at the base of the financial crisis. over the course of this year we've had a makeover of the banks' accounts with basel 3 ratios, but the truth is that the leverage levels are still very high. we have had mergers and acquisitions that have created mega banks that will create enormous problems in the future and finally, through the european stability mechanism, we have managed to put governments at the service of the single resolution fund, that is, more public funds for the banks and this naturally reinforces our conviction that only public control of the financial system can put the banks at the service of the economy.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to congratulate you, i would like to greet all my colleagues and tell them that we have made good progress towards this investeu, which brings together 13 financial instruments. it will simplify and make it possible to close market gaps. this investeu has four windows, in the area of infrastructure, research and innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises and also in the social area. it is a continuation of the other financial instruments of the juncker plan, the european fund for strategic investments. some had doubts, but today it is proven that it is a programme which has helped to create some 1.2 million jobs in the european union and has already supported more than 800 000 small and mediumsized enterprises. a programme to help economic growth, a programme to help small and mediumsized enterprises is under way. with investeu, our ambition cannot be reduced and we should have the same amount of guarantee as we have at present for at least the three financial instruments and therefore we propose to strengthen the guarantee to stay with that objective which is maintenance. we have a slight difference with the commission and i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the vice-president and all the work that has been done in this area. the commission proposes €650 billion, we propose €700 billion. we also believe that, as is obvious, the union's policies and objectives in the area of climate must be absolutely guaranteed, also in the area of what is the strategy we want for sustainability, but also for growth and inclusion. the european investment bank, we give legal certainty so that at least 75% of the guarantee is there and then all the other national development banks and other financial institutions should have access to the other 25%. it is extremely important that this programme also contributes to the social, territorial and economic cohesion of the european union, and therefore the geographical balance is extremely important, and here there is a point in the advisory hub - the platform for investment advice - which should be strengthened and which should allow projects in the regions, projects in the most remote cities of the european union, to have access to this programme and hence the concern for smaller projects. the need to continue to be able to have investment platforms is essential. i want this advisory hub to have a more active presence, a more proactive stance. in our proposal we also simplified governance. in addition, as regards additionality, we want it to remain, of course, adapted to the new reality and the three financial instruments, and there can be no definition of additionality that prevents, for example, social investment. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my fellow rapporteurs and in particular the rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the socialist party, mr gualtieri, for the work we have done together. othmar karas, for the excellent contribution he has made and all the shadow rapporteurs who have participated in this investeu. thank you very much, we have made a great contribution to economic growth in the european union.
madam president, this program has two problems: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it does not meet the needs of the european union and its people, because what the european union really needs is an ambitious public investment plan that meets the needs of the people and that gives the economy a boost and makes sure that a tiny part of the money that was spent by the ecb on its quantitative easing operations would have been more than enough to finance this plan, boosting economic growth and combating asymmetries. but that was not the direction and now we have another competitive instrument, a financial instrument, which does not guarantee additionality, which will feed public-private partnerships and which has the novelty of now also being able to finance the arms industry, which we deeply regret.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr josé manuel fernandes, on the work he has done on the investeu dossier, on the one hand to make it more fair and on the other hand to simplify it by adding other financial instruments which have been scattered until now. investeu is essential for the union, especially at a time when investment lines are still clearly insufficient for europe's development objectives. i therefore believe that to give the european investment bank a decisive role here is to recognise the good work that has been done by this european institution with years of success in this area. there is no doubt that the investeu fund will ensure a share of the union budget dedicated to its main strategic axes, under shared responsibility and in complementarity with other financing instruments of the member states, and this will allow smaller countries, such as portugal, to have more opportunities to see projects come to life that until now, due to unfavourable risk analyses, could not be financed by private investment. ladies and gentlemen, this is the opportunity you have been waiting for for some of the projects that are so essential to combating climate change and decarbonising the economy, to blue growth and sustainable development, and to protecting biodiversity in the oceans and on land.
the rapporteur. madam president, i thank you for all the contributions to this debate. i am continually struck by the number of voices against private enterprise, fortunately few, but nevertheless heard in this house. it is the firms, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, that create jobs. i would also remind you that this fund can and should be used by regional and local public authorities and is therefore an asset and an additional instrument which is very important for investment, particularly in areas where there are market failures. i therefore find it incomprehensible that those who are calling for jobs should then be against instruments which help to create jobs. he added that this instrument also helps inclusion, it has a window that we are strengthening, which is a window to the social area and also the investment window for small and medium-sized enterprises. i also think it is very important that there should be no confusion about the compartment for member states. in addition to the 700 billion euros we are proposing in terms of investment, with the guarantee of about 40 billion euros, we have the possibility for the member states to use this investeu, by putting a guarantee from the structural funds. but this is not a transfer, these structural funds and this percentage belong to these same member states, member states which can allocate and mobilise with a triple a, also use the possibility of avoiding the difficulties resulting from state aid and can go ahead with additional investments for well-defined projects. it is now important that the member states also define the projects they consider important as regards the use of this compartment. i hope for a vote, as happened in the committee on budgets and the economic affairs committee, a vote with an overwhelming majority of those in favour of investment, job creation, strengthening the competitiveness of the european union and respecting the commitments we have made, particularly in the fight against climate change.
the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. but let us be clear: these improvements do not alter the framework of the fund. it is little more than a palliative that does not solve the problems of closure and relocation resulting from the enlargement of the single market, the strategy of concentration of profit-making capital, the deregulation of labour and the incessant demand for cheap labour. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fund legitimizes the policies of dismissal and the discharge of the multinationals in the preservation of the employment generated. moreover, its budget remains limited, especially in view of the increase in scope, while right-wing and european union policies limit the measures taken by states to support workers in maintaining their jobs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that this european social fund, which is now more than a few hundred years old, will not leave the priorities of the social rights pillar on paper. two conditions must be met: first, it must be a programme that is easy to access and, secondly, it must be demanding in its assignment, satisfying only the real needs of europeans and not contributing to party propaganda. this requires that social and geographical barriers to access to this fund be overcome, while ensuring that only projects that translate into greater social development are supported, notably the youth guarantee programme which aims to support young people in unemployment and lack of training. all this is even more relevant in rural areas with specific contingencies and with fewer economic and employment opportunities, which leads me to my final point: that the european social fund should not forget that we are the europe of the regions and that one of its main objectives is to eliminate the gaps that still exist between them, by providing different responses to different realities.
mr president, the proposal, more than its architecture and objectives, the programmes it involves or the financial distribution it carries out, is compromised by its complete subordination to the european semester, by the insufficient funds, by the conditionality of the programme to the wishes of the commission, as well as by the link it intends to promote with the investeu fund. in order to make the programme more effective, particularly in portugal, we have put forward a number of amendments: subordination of the programme to national development strategies and fully shared management, guaranteeing the value of and increased investment in universal, free and quality public services, particularly in the health and education sectors, the use of the fund as an instrument to tackle social problems and challenges, particularly in creating jobs and integrating poverty-fighting strategies, and a significant increase in the fund's budget. these changes represent an opportunity to give it robustness and scope.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, verónica lope fontagné, on her excellent work on this dossier. the european social fund has been a key element in european cohesion. europe is facing social challenges today with an ageing population which is in need of more and better care. this puts additional pressure on member states' social and health services, which must have a multiannual union strategy that goes beyond and can complement their policies. in fact, the amount allocated to the health heading by this renewed european social fund, which involves the extinction of the european union's health programme, is eur 413 million and a total of eur 101.2 billion. it should be noted at the outset that this fund is ambitious in providing for its use to improve equitable and timely access to quality, sustainable and affordable health services involving primary care, long-term care, more citizen-centred care whether provided by outpatient units, centres of excellence or by informal or family carers. and, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that this is so, because we are thus ensuring that no citizen is left behind in the construction of the european project.
in writing. the sovereign decision of the british people to leave the eu must be fully respected. in this context, any manoeuvres, pressure, threats or blackmail, including from the eu, aimed at defrauding, misrepresenting or even reversing the situation must be rejected. what is evident in the united kingdom and beyond is a deep feeling of rejection of eu policies which attack the rights and aspirations of workers and peoples, which promote the concentration of wealth at the expense of impoverishment, which disrespect national sovereignty and the right to development of various countries. it is possible to build another europe of cooperation between sovereign states, based on mutual respect, equal rights, cooperation, solidarity, mutual development, social progress and peace. in this context, the portuguese government must take decisive action, both before the uk authorities and in the eu, to ensure that the rights of portuguese citizens working and living in the uk are protected. it should also take the necessary initiatives to promote the conditions for the development of mutually beneficial bilateral relations between portugal and the united kingdom, in the framework of respect for the sovereignty of each country and the rights and aspirations of the portuguese and british peoples.
mr president, commissioner, the good intention which i believe has led to the suggestion of this debate must put aside the temptation to ask who has had or has the worst dictatorships: the left or the right. a dictatorship is a dictatorship, period. it has no ideological contamination in this respect. there are no dictatorships in europe, but some of our places resemble disguised devices of illiberal democracies, the language of which is used to numb people's senses and their sense of alertness. we have seen hate speech and that should be enough to fill us with shame, and all those who died fighting totalitarianism. so, particularly through education, we can reject what t.s. eliot called temporal provincialism, referring to those who ignored and ignore the lessons and wisdom of history. portugal knows what i'm talking about.
in writing. the attempts to rewrite history continue shamefully. they are feeding the falsification of the past, criminalizing communism, equating it with nazism and fascism, hypocritically whitewashing those who tried to enslave a part of the european peoples and promoted a terrifying war of extermination. they want to erase the decisive contribution of the communists and the soviet union to the defeat of nazi-fascism, their role in improving the living conditions of the workers, their contribution to the liberation of the peoples from the colonial yoke after the second world war. no attempt to rewrite history will erase this legacy. the impact and historical and universal significance of the october revolution, even after the disappearance of the ussr, is even more evident in the time we live in. a time that highlights the exploitative, oppressive, aggressive and predatory nature of the capitalist system and the european union, which is permanently in conflict with the rights and aspirations of workers and peoples and which is responsible for the growing problems and dangers facing humanity.
mr president, this report by mr terricabras, whom i congratulate on his work, shows that in 2017, eight years after the entry into force of the european charter of fundamental rights, there were still huge discrepancies in the union between the legislative framework, which is the most advanced in the world, and the practical implementation of its principles. harassment and violence against women and girls, racism, homophobia, religious intolerance and discrimination against minorities, people with disabilities and the elderly remain serious. intolerance towards migrants and asylum seekers is growing and in some member states free and independent journalism is threatened by the weakening of the separation of powers and political corruption. and the question is this: with what authority can we condemn human rights violations in third countries in this house if we do not do so with even greater firmness than in the member states and if we do not have the political courage to pursue the procedures provided for in the treaties to the last possible punitive consequences? we are a community of law. to ignore this fact and to forget that the european project is the heir of a humanist ethic is to destroy it.
rapporteur. – madam president, pursuant to rule 59(4) i request that the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, the purpose of this proposal is to make the allocation of funds to the member states conditional on the existence of a rule of law. but the question is: what rule of law are we talking about and who will be able to tell whether this rule of law exists? will the european union be able to control the institutional functioning of the member states? this european union which rejected the outcome of the referendums in ireland, the netherlands and france on the european constitution? is this the european union which does not accept the result of the referendum in the united kingdom, where the people voted freely and democratically to leave the european union? this european union that promotes the recapitalisation of the financial system with public funds and then presents the bill to the people with austerity policies? this european union that lets thousands of refugees die in the mediterranean and criminalizes humanitarian associations which seek to promote their rescue? this list, which is not exhaustive, is a good indication of the european union's lack of legitimacy in respect of the rule of law. the sovereignty of peoples lies in their ability to decide freely on their future and to choose their model of development, even if this model is not the one prescribed by the european union. in short, we strongly reject this instrument.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, allow me to begin by speaking to the rapporteur's replacement, who has done an excellent job. i would like to congratulate you on this and the committee on budgets has also given its approval to the report on this subject. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his systematic cooperation with the committee on budgets, a positive cooperation which we all commend and which we have greatly benefited from. i am convinced that the commissioner will not fail to develop this programme, as the european union wishes and is interested in, in the framework of the permanent dialogue it has with parliament and the committee on budgets. the fiscalis programme, as you know, aims at cooperation between tax administrations through collaboration and the exchange of information. this cooperation can be key to greater effectiveness in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and against money laundering. i have tabled, together with my group, a number of amendments to the text, and i would like to stress three points: the process for selecting external experts shall take into account gender equality in line with the un sustainable development goals, in particular paragraph 5 thereof; the fiscalis programme shall seek to exploit synergies with other union measures in areas related to the customs programme, the european anti-fraud programme, the single market programme and the structural reform support programmes for better cost-effectiveness; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. the text adopted in committee, which is expected to receive massive support in plenary, will then allow us to create a programme to support member states' tax authorities in pursuing the best tax policies, in cooperation between them and in developing human resources and european electronic systems. it is important to remember that the european commission is committed to finding tax compromise among member states which can gradually lead to the abolition of the current unanimity model. this rule of unanimity in fiscal policy has historically been justified, but it is now outdated and, when a good consensus can be found on this matter, a firm step will be taken in the development of economic and monetary union. parliament must support the commission in this objective.
author. – mr president, when we talk about human rights and the rule of law being the basis of our action, and our action towards third countries, namely through the agreements that we have negotiated – that we are negotiating with azerbaijan – it’s not rhetoric. it’s up to people like you, commissioner malmström, like federica mogherini, to indeed deliver, to make sure it happens. it’s not just perfunctory and the case of azerbaijan is a scandal, what has been going on and, as the case of mehman huseynov demonstrates – but we could mention many other activists such as khadija ismayilova, ilgar mammadov and afgan mukhtarli, who was kidnapped in georgia and brought to azerbaijan to be tortured in jail. and why? because these brave people dared to expose the corruption on which is based this regime of aliyev. it’s really horrendous that, despite all these principles, the people who are negotiating and were proposing to this parliament to give its consent, in fact they do opposite. it’s a shame. we expect you to deliver on these principles and indeed make a sound evaluation of what the situation is and the situation is what has been described by my colleagues who spoke earlier. in the case of mehman huseynov, it shows the level of pressure and of torture that these people are being subjected to. this week, one of our colleagues, norica nicolai, distributed to all of us a letter that he eventually wrote – he was obviously forced to write – because if you read this letter it reminds me of the letters that people under the dictatorship in my country, under salazar, and people in her country, under ceaușescu, would write under duress to pretend that everything is alright, to try to prevent us from adopting the resolution that we are going to adopt today. what is even more atrocious, as was mentioned by my colleague miguel urbán crespo, is indeed the corruption that it has been fomenting inside the european union, as the case of the azerbaijani laundromat demonstrates, with politicians, even in this parliament, as we saw in 2013, in the elections in azerbaijan bought by this regime. we cannot allow it to go on. it’s not just about azerbaijan, it’s not about supporting those who fight against corruption and for human rights and the rule of law in azerbaijan, it’s about the eu.
blue-card question. – ms nicolai do you agree that it is absolutely unacceptable that the regime in azerbaijan buys european politicians such as mr pedro agramunt, who is now a senator in spain, without any investigation into this ongoing corruption? do you agree that it is tremendously damning to the credibility of european politicians and european action if politicians allow themselves to be bought by the regime such as that of president aliyev?
mr president, mehman huseynov, blogger and director of the institute for reporters’ freedom and safety was jailed due to criticism of his country’s regime and criminal justice system. unfortunately this is not an isolated case. the authoritarian government of azerbaijan has virtually closed space for independent anti-corruption activism, critical journalism and opposition political activities, through prosecution, arbitrary arrests and unjust convictions. this is not the first time we pass a resolution on azerbaijan in this house, and i believe it is time to say ‘enough is enough’. it is now time for us to demand the government of azerbaijan to end its persecution of civil society, to allow independent media to operate within the country and immediately to release mr huseynov and all other political prisoners and activists. the eu has to take a clear stance here and stick to the principle of freedom of speech and respect for civil liberties, which stand at the very foundations of the eu itself. human rights, madam commissioner, are not to be bargained and until this oppression and violation stops the eu must suspend all financial aid to the oppressive regime of azerbaijan.
mr president, since massive protests started nearly a month ago sparked by price hikes but tapping the deeper reservoir of discontent, government forces have shot dead scores of protesters and detained hundreds of courageous sudanese who courageously protested against the regime’s brutality, incompetence and corruption. as the khartoum protests engulfed the whole country, the sudanese government continued to perpetrate its old tactics of arbitrary detentions and arrests, extra-judicial killings, assaults, excessive use of force and many more violations against activists, journalists and ordinary citizens. the european union must stick to its core values and strongly condemn these persecutions and terror campaigns, and call on president omar al-bashir to hold those responsible to account and stop brutal confrontation against demonstrators, release all detainees, including sakharov price laureate salih mahmoud osman, and allow the people of sudan to exercise their constitutional rights, including the right of peaceful assembly. once again, madam commissioner, the eu has to act now, not later, and must impose strong action against the government of al-bashir, namely suspending all financial aid.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because the closure of the ignalina nuclear power station in lithuania is special for several reasons. it is special in that it is a pioneering and irreversible dismantling of the two graphite reactor cores, type rbmk, inherited from soviet technology and in every way similar to those used in chernobyl. this is a unique opportunity for the union to acquire knowledge in the field of decommissioning of nuclear installations and radioactive waste management, which justifies the separate investment provided for in the document and in particular also because it is an exception to the polluter pays principle for radioactive waste. why would you do that? because this investment in nuclear energy was imposed on the territory of lithuania by the then soviet union, intended to serve a much larger region, and disproportionate to the size and financial capacity of lithuania. the closure of the nuclear power plant has led to the need to increase energy imports to serve the region and therefore lithuania has been suffering from very high energy costs for years. i therefore understand that the union's co-financing is above the planning of the euratom agreements and i hope that this case can serve as an example for the planned and ongoing dismantling in other member states.
madam president, i voted in favour because i believe that differentiation reflects the idea that europe does not work in a one-size-fits-all approach that has the capacity to adapt to the needs and wishes of european citizens. differentiation must be a constitutional instrument that ensures flexibility without compromising the entire political system and equality between citizens. normalising differentiation is to ensure that we work with the capacities of the member states so that they can pursue the union's development policies without creating a two-speed europe, or europeans of the first and second kind. the process of differentiation must be harmonised, putting an end to the practices of self-exclusion and derogation from the primary law of the union which lead to negative differentiation, distort the homogeneity of european law and undermine the social cohesion of the union. but we cannot afford to give up the union's fundamental values, and so its cornerstones must not be open to differentiation. a future european institutional framework cannot but inevitably include the european pillars of political, economic, social and environmental rights. there is no room for pause in freedom and democracy or in the fight against climate change.
mr president, i thank you for organising the ceremony in which we all expressed our deep feelings about the holocaust. i must, nevertheless, leave here my regret that an attack was made against the british labour party for anti-semitism. (applause) i think this is outrageous. it’s not doing right to all the people in the british labour party, all the members who are jewish, who fought against the nazis, and who died against the nazis. i am very sorry that i did not hear a word about the roma and the lgbt people who also perished in the holocaust. (applause)
in writing. the withdrawal agreement for the united kingdom from the european union was negotiated for over a year and a half. the british government and the european union have agreed on a balanced, reasonable and fair text. the red lines were respected by all parties and the union secured the approval of 27 different member states, setting the text as the final and non-negotiable outcome. the clear rejection of the agreement by the british parliament has called into question an orderly brexit. however, the lead in almost all the proposed amendments reveals that parliament does not want this agreement, but does not present an alternative. in less than two months, this position is irresponsible, unreasonable and unjustified. the safeguard clause for the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland must be a red line to protect the peace between the irish, preserve the good friday agreements and ensure the integrity of the internal market. i call on the european institutions and the member states to remain firm in defending this withdrawal agreement and to respect the european parliament, which has the right and the duty to assess, debate and vote on the outcome of these negotiations on behalf of the european citizens it represents.
mr president, the european union is not just a common market. it shares values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. since september, when we last discussed this issue, the hungarian government has nationalized most newspapers, television and radio stations, closed a university, allegedly linked to the opposition, and insisted on the inhumane treatment of refugees. the government continued to undermine the rule of law to the detriment of hungarian citizens and all europeans. orbán is a bad example, and others who deserve our concern are joining him in poland, romania, slovakia and malta. mr president, we need to act and we need to adopt a monitoring instrument that takes account of cases of breach of fundamental rights, we need to make funds conditional on respect for our fundamental values and we need to demand that the council takes account of article 7, as required by the treaties. freedom, democracy and the rule of law are not pretty words to decorate speeches. these are values that are part of our identity. an identity that's under threat. let us have the courage to defend it.
the european union wishes to legitimize the us-orchestrated coup in venezuela and the self-proclaimed puppet of trump to seize power and control the country's wealth. this is an affront to the constitutional order and international law. is this the eu that legitimized the fraudulent elections in honduras, that questions the presidential elections in venezuela? why did you reject the venezuelan government's request to participate as an observer? will the systematic actions of destabilisation, terrorism, speculation and embezzlement, increasing economic and financial sanctions, which the eu and several member states have been fuelling, solve the problems of the venezuelan economy and the difficulties faced by its people? will the eu back the threat of imminent us military intervention or embrace the path of peace and dialogue that mexico and uruguay have proposed to mediate? it is the suffering and blood of the venezuelan people that you are gambling with. keep your hands off venezuela.
during this term of office, parliament addressed the political situation in venezuela on several occasions. resolutions were adopted calling for dialogue and respect for democracy. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. appeals were made for the rules of democratic transparency to be respected and sanctions were adopted to signal the unacceptable character of the distorted model of recognition of the popular vote. the political situation in venezuela has reached a red line that can only be resolved democratically. resolved by the immediate calling by the government of free and internationally supervised elections, or, if this is not done, by creating the conditions for the national assembly to take the destiny of the country into its own hands and call these elections. venezuela needs to let the people choose their destiny democratically and the european union, in respect of its values, must continue to do everything to make that happen.
mr president, china's credibility is measured by its global influence, but also by the fears it inspires in its own south sea region. taiwan is a democracy and has elected president tsai ing-wen of a party that is trying to declare the island's independence to preserve the rule of law and democracy that obviously do not apply in china. with the threat of force and dollar diplomacy, xi jinping wants to show taiwan that renouncing the consensus that there is only one china is forbidden and pays for crushing. but chinese reunification can only be achieved if the taiwanese people want it, if they vote for it democratically. an armed conflict would destroy china's legitimacy and influence globally. the military provocations which threaten peace and security in the taiwan strait must be stopped. we must be willing to talk. disputes must be resolved by peaceful means on the basis of international law, in particular by a permanent member of the un security council such as china. there's no other way. or china will have lost formosa/taiwan long before it even tried to integrate it... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, beijing increasingly tries to isolate formosa globally and has signalled for years that it wants taiwan to be reunited with the mainland, by force if necessary. taiwanese anti-invasion exercises and chinese patrol flights are regular occurrences in the taiwan strait. china’s intensifying political and economic pressure campaigns are also aimed at pushing taiwan back towards a more china-friendly government in its 2020 presidential election. although the european union sticks to the principle of ‘one china’ – which i think is wrong – that doesn’t mean that we are any less engaged with taiwan, a more-than-open and tolerant democracy and an important economic partner of the eu. the european union must appeal for moderation on both sides of the conflict, firmly opposed to the use or threat of force across the taiwan strait, and urge china to abstain from any coercion that would jeopardise the security of the social-economic system of the people of taiwan.
mr president, relations between europe and the united states are being blown up every day by the chaotic trump presidency, which is pushing for brexit, has withdrawn from the climate agreement, the iran agreement, has opened a trade war, is offending european leaders, while showing itself to be a servant of putin. but we cannot ignore the relationship with the transatlantic side. on the contrary, we must invest more and more in contacts, and especially in congress, and also with those sectors of the administration that resist trump's destruction. as far as trade relations are concerned, we shall have to wait and see what these partnership agreements will bring. at least the commissioner has finally come to the conclusion that a comprehensive trade and services agreement with the united states is not possible for the time being. it was not before, partly because it had that shameful special courts clause, and it did not have a chapter on a key issue which is the regulation of taxation to prevent the diversion of resources from our treasuries to tax havens. more than ever, now that the united states is admitting the possibility of following the european model of universal health care (the president interrupts the speaker), it is time to work towards a future trade agreement that includes taxation regulation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in order to consolidate its shared values and make them structural in the development of the new digital society, the european union needs to develop this identity around three pillars. first, put people and their needs first. secondly, to ensure fair access to equipment, and thirdly, to respect privacy and the transparent use of data. the new regulation of the domain . i make a significant contribution to that. i would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on this dossier, in particular the rapporteur, fredrick federlay, and the shadow rapporteur, csaba molnár of the s&d group, who cannot be present for this debate. the dissemination of a secure but flexible domain, in line with european rules and accessible to citizens, is very important. but we must dare to go further. the strengthening of a network for access to and sharing of services with single authentication, as foreseen for example in the wifi4eu initiative, opens up a differentiating line in europe's approach to the digital society, making its economy more competitive, its knowledge centres more robust, its public services closer to citizens and its people more connected to the opportunities created by technological development. it stresses some structural aspects of the assessment regulation: the management of the domain by a non-profit organisation is maintained, the european digital identity, its values and the internal market are promoted, citizens are allowed to register regardless of their place of residence, companies and companies located in the european union and the european economic area are allowed to register, registration in all languages and alphabets is allowed, clear rules are created for the management of the domain by users and for the prevention of inappropriate use of this resource. so, commissioner, rapporteurs and colleagues, in short, the .eu domain is part of our digital heritage and also of our digital identity. and it must continue to be defended and strengthened.
mr president, the integration of the roma minority requires a cross-cutting effort in education, health, housing and employment. we cannot continue to leave marginalization invisible, hidden. and i want to pay tribute to my colleague soraya post for her fundamental work in establishing the european framework for national roma integration strategies by 2020. it is a crucial instrument, but its implementation by each member state must be measured, particularly in the context of the european semester, as commissioner jourová has said. and we need to empower and empower roma women to lead change, we need more funding for ngos on the ground, we need to give the community a voice. it is crucial to raise media awareness of this fight, to showcase successful integration projects in schools, in neighbourhoods, in the workplace. only in this way will the community be given the confidence to make itself known and break down the barrier of discrimination and oblivion that persists in europe. the price to be paid for the lack of integration, for our inaction on the roma, and therefore on the integration of the roma, is the strengthening of the chauvinists of racism and xenophobia who really threaten to destroy our europe. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – i fully concur with my colleague, mr franz. real integration is not ghettos and is not separation. you can have fantastic housing in a ghetto and you’re not integrated. you can have a separated school and you’re not integrated if the roma children are not together with the other children and the other children don’t appreciate the cultural wealth that it is for europe to have roma and sinti communities.
mr president, commissioner, six months after we debated in this house the implementation and monitoring of national strategies to promote the integration of roma communities, we have come to the conclusion that the member states continue to fail to combat discrimination and prejudice against this ethnic minority. the truth is that the reports we receive reveal that roma still live on the margins of society, with limited, if any, access to education, employment, health, housing, which consequently makes them more vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion and reinforces the negative stereotypes associated with the community. ladies and gentlemen, it was in 2011 that the member states committed themselves to adopting national roma integration strategies by 2020, but the truth is that even today we continue to denounce an intention that, in many cases, has never been put into practice. in the face of the challenges of populism and the brutal and cowardly attack on democratic institutions and values in europe, it is now necessary for the european union to respond in a more ambitious and integrated way to the needs of the roma community, which numbers over ten million people, most of whom are citizens of the member states of the european union.
mr president, i would like to welcome this initiative to increase transparency. i must say that there is a clear problem with the freedom of mandate here. i must say that i am clearly against this idea of making representative democracy a kind of direct democracy. representative democracy must not go after populism and populism wants voyeurism and that is what is essentially in amendment no 20. it is a voyeurism that brings us closer, not to representative democracies, but to direct democracies, and this is a bad way to go. but precisely because we are a representative democracy, i also want to say here, on my own behalf and on behalf of the portuguese delegation of the psd in the ppe group, that i am totally against the secret ballot. i do not think that a secret ballot is compatible with representative democracy in a matter like this. and that is why i regret, although i am voting along the lines of the ppe group, that we are not here to vote openly in front of all the people who elected us, because that is precisely the way to make representative democracy and to show that colleagues who want to turn parliament into a kind of open box in which we are only puppets and do not have a role of our own with freedom, this cannot be done openly in front of everyone. so on this point i do not agree with my group and i think that the vote should be a transparent and open vote, although i voted fully along the lines of the ppe.
in writing. the deep and protracted crisis of the european union, along with the attack on social achievements and rights and the associated retrogression in the dimension of civilization, also involves a disturbing dimension of attack on democracy itself. the attack on social rights and the attack on democracy go hand in hand. this is how one should read the successive attacks on the national sovereignty of states, the attempt to empty their sovereign institutions and the concentration of power in supranational bodies, at the service of big capital and the great powers. the successive amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, aimed at limiting the involvement of members and smaller political groups, bureaucratising the functioning of parliament and reducing and weakening the instruments of scrutiny of the legislative process and the action of the different eu institutions, must also be read in the light of this more general reality. it is significant that these efforts unite the right and social democracy. we strongly condemn and reject the attempt to create new and serious obstacles to the formation of political groups on the basis of an arbitrary and subjective criterion of 'political affinity'. this is a further step in the process which has been calling into question the democracy and pluralism which the right wing and social democracy hypocritically claim to defend.
mr president, in portugal the ctt, the portuguese post office, has been privatised. the results are disastrous: a sharp increase in fares, 564 stations and stations closed, mail delivery slower than it was 30 years ago, 900 fewer workers. the company has already paid out more than eur 240 million in dividends to shareholders since 2014, with dividends exceeding net income this year. they are now announcing the layoffs of 800 more workers in addition to the 340 that are in the process of being laid off, as well as the sale of more assets and the closure of 22 more stations. the postal services are an indispensable instrument for the social, economic and territorial cohesion of our country. the post office must guarantee a public postal service for the country and its people. the ctt must be freed from ruinous private management and public control of the portuguese post office must be restored. here too, the disastrous liberalization and privatization processes sponsored by the european union must be brought to an end.
mr president, commissioner, on 5 november 2015, the rupture of the mariana dam created a river of mud that, running through 633 kilometres of waterways, reached 39 municipalities, killed 19 people and caused the biggest environmental disaster in brazil. to this day, investigations continue into those responsible without any conviction. three years later, the new dam, the one at the mina do feijão, in the brumadinho complex, owned by the same company that owns mariana, vale, collapsed again and the avalanche of mud and mining waste has already caused 75 deaths, 279 disappearances and left several indigenous tribes without their crops and drinking water. with only 3% of brazil's 24,000 dams inspected and brumadinho identified by the national water agency late last year as one of 45 at risk of failure, the question now is not whether there will be another tragedy, but when it will happen again. in view of the imminence of this threat, the european union cannot but urge the brazilian federal and state authorities to identify those responsible for this disaster and to tighten the licensing rules for new mining dams and to implement more effective and more demanding monitoring systems.
prime minister of finland. – mr president, thank you all for the questions. we in finland are used to this kind of questioning. every thursday at 4 o’clock in our parliament is question hour. all ministers have to be present and we are used to this. but we give our answer right after each question. now i have 30 questions to answer at the same time, so i will conclude with some top—lines. first education. education and equal education is very important for finland. public school is the best school for rich people and poor people. all the people in finland, all the kids, go to the same school. we have the best teachers in the world and we have a challenge to educate about one million finnish people during the next ten years. i think that this same challenge is in every european union country because of artificial intelligence, because of the changes in work life. climate change – thank you for supporting my speech and all the issues i raised with regard to climate change. arctic issues are very important for finland. we are especially worried about black carbon, and this is a quite concrete issue where we can negotiate also with russia and the united states, which are not very keen to support climate change actions. we need also r&b investments, that’s true in this sector. defence cooperation – finland has supported defence cooperation from the beginning. i really welcome the progress on that issue. there was a question about turkey. it’s very complicated. it’s a nato country and the rule of law developments in that country worry us a lot – the situation in greece and cyprus also. as for the romanian presidency, i have always been sure that romania will do an excellent job as the presidency of the european union, and there has been some proof of that already. venezuela – our full support to democratic development and elections. the humanitarian situation in that country is really bad at the moment and i am sure finland will follow everything that we decide together in the european union. there were some – actually quite a few – questions in finnish. so i will conclude my answers in finnish. ensinnäkin kestävä metsänhoito: suomessa käytetään puun kasvusta 70–80 prosenttia ja suomen metsät kasvavat koko ajan enemmän kuin käytämme puuta. puuta käytetään koko ajan paremmin ja tehokkaammin myöskin sillä tavalla, että hiili sitoutuu pitkäksi aikaa niihin tuotteisiin, joita teemme metsistä ja puista. mff:stä kysyttiin täällä useamman kerran. tulevana puheenjohtajamaana olen aivan varma näiden käymieni kollegakeskusteluiden perusteella siitä, että tulemme löytämään kompromissin, missä tämä perinteinen eu-politiikka ja uudet haasteet pystytään sovittamaan yhteen. emme ole olleet siellä kaikkein tiukimmassa prosentin liikkeessä vaan meillä on jouston varaa myöskin kotimaisessa kannassamme, ja puheenjohtajana tulemme löytämään siihen ajallaan oikean ratkaisun. täytäntöönpanosta puhuin paljon tuossa puheessani. meillä suomessa on tapana, että kun yhdessä sovitaan jotakin, varsinkin tällaisella joukolla, niin sitten me teemme osuutemme siitä yhdessä tehdystä päätöksestä välittömästi. tästä varmasti meillä on tarpeeksi näyttöä. so implementation is a key issue: when we have carefully prepared our decisions we then implement everything efficiently. i think this is a key message from my speech. mr president, thank you very much. it was a pleasure to be here and it was a very interesting discussion. (applause)
when discussing the deepening of emu and the banking union, the possible merger between deutsche bank and commerzbank is on the agenda today. this merger would create a banking mega-group with some eur 2 billion in assets, with a top position at european level. several analysts recall that the two institutions have had some difficult years. the commission also found that the bank's capital needs were not sufficiently addressed by the restructuring plan. in short, the low level of own funds of both institutions suggests a scenario of some reserve. this merger between these institutions will accentuate the problem of the large financial institutions with systemic effect that were the basis for public intervention after the financial crisis. it will create excessive market power, potentiating abuses of dominant positions with serious damage to the economy. in short, it will confirm once again the role of the ecb and the single supervisory system as active promoters of banking concentration within the european union.
madam president, i voted in favour of the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament because i believe that being serious about politics is not being held hostage by ideologies or captured by interest groups. it is to be able to solve the problems of citizens and to design the future of the european union and its member states, by cultivating the values of human development, respecting individual freedom and defending democracy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we must reassure our constituents that we hear all voices, because to hear the diversity of opinions is to heed the concerns of the citizens of the european union, is to ensure that we build a europe without atrocities and is to ensure that we stand up for the right causes for which we were elected. supporting secrecy is halfway to creating the conditions for corruption and harboring influence peddling under the same roof of democracy, and for that, they don't count on me. for these reasons, europe has suffered enough.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on venezuela, of which i was one of the signatories, because i believe that the european union, which did not recognise the legitimacy of the early presidential election of 20 may 2018, should no longer wait to explicitly and unanimously recognise juan guaidó as the legitimate interim president of venezuela and should take advantage of the fact that it has five member states among the 15 countries sitting on the un security council to promote an understanding that the united states, russia and china cannot or do not want to reach. contrary to what nicolas maduro proclaims, it is not imperialism that wants new elections before 2025. this is a demand of your fellow citizens who rightly demand the return of democracy and the rule of law and the end of the corrupt narco-state which forces millions to emigrate or cross borders daily in search of food and medicine for their children. as the high representative mogherini has said, these voices calling for democracy and the possibility of freely determining their own destiny cannot be ignored. i also understand that this house cannot but condemn the severe restrictions on the civil rights of juan guaidó imposed by the supreme court of justice and call for the immediate release of the journalists, including a european, who were detained yesterday in caracas by the sinister bolivarian national intelligence service.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to extend a special greeting to our commissioner karmenu vella and i would also like to congratulate my colleague alain cadec and all those involved in the work carried out during the negotiations. i think we got a good end result. first, because it ensured that one of the most ambitious objectives of the cfp, namely to achieve the maximum sustainable yield by 2020, was maintained. i know that in some cases this is an ambitious objective and that there is still a long way to go, but we have kept this ambition in the regulation. secondly, because we have included improvements in the protection of sensitive species, important resources and habitats, in particular through the possibility of designating protection areas for juveniles and for the recovery of springs. regionalization and proximity of management, advocated in pluriannual plans such as this one, are a solution that has already proven itself. an example of this is the case of the azores horseradish, for which a number of specific management measures have been established as a result of technical measures implemented. the most up-to-date scientific data show that there has been recovery of this resource. the regional plan drawn up in conjunction with the fishermen has produced positive results both in terms of recovery of the species and in terms of the financial benefits obtained. the measures also involved the establishment of marine protected areas and fisheries reserves. this management tool is unavoidable and must be multiplied. finally, these plans will have to contribute to the landing obligations, but we have to allow for exceptions: individuals caught below minimum size and with proven relevant survival rates shall be returned to the sea. bringing fish ashore that are not interested and that, if they survive, can reproduce and later be caught with greater economic benefit is doubly positive. i would therefore like to stress in particular the exception for the fishery for plaice and berries in the western atlantic.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the fishermen themselves to have the fisheries sector monitored and monitored. as regards the specific case of this plan, while appreciating some positive developments in the negotiations on certain aspects, we would point out at the end of this procedure that the european commission has not given, and has yet to give, a convincing response to the option of joining two different realities, both in terms of resources and of fisheries exploiting these resources, such as the realities of the north and south western waters, apparently yielding to pressure in this direction.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all of you for your interventions and valuable views, and also for the broad support for this multiannual plan. i have taken due note of the various points raised during this debate. but let me reiterate, it is of utmost importance that the multiannual plans are made straightaway fit for purpose. to ensure this, they need to provide the tools to ensure a practical and sustainable management framework for our mixed demersal fisheries. the co-legislators have achieved this with the western waters plan. it was not only important to have a multiannual plan in place for the western waters but also to have the multiannual plan as soon as possible. this is the way to implement the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which is an important feature of the latest cfp reform in 2013. it provides a tool to facilitate reaching the maximum sustainable yield (msy) objective by defining ranges of fishing opportunities in line with msy. this provides the necessary flexibility to reduce potential choke problems. with the 2020 deadline approaching, it is important to have this possibility in place as soon as possible. it also allows member states to recommend, via joint recommendations, appropriate technical measures to improve the conservation of the stocks, to facilitate the landing obligations and to protect juveniles.
mr president, commissioner, the objective of the protocol implementing the fisheries agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire, now renewed for a period of six years, is to provide fishing opportunities for vessels of member states of the european union in the waters of côte d'ivoire, on the basis of the best available scientific advice and in compliance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. it is hoped that this protocol will enable the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire to work more closely together to promote the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in côte d'ivoire's waters and to support côte d'ivoire's efforts to develop the local economy on the basis of the contribution made by the fisheries sector. the committee on fisheries has, at my suggestion, in good time considered making a more detailed assessment and consideration of this agreement, its history and its future prospects, and has made some considerations and recommendations which it is now hoped the european commission will take into account during the period of validity of the protocol and in any future renegotiation. the first fisheries agreement between côte d'ivoire and the european community was signed in 1990. although 28 years have passed, almost 29, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are shockingly meagre. this is a reality that needs to change. the agreement should promote the effective and sustainable development of the offshore fisheries sector and related industries and activities by increasing the value added that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources. there is a need for better coordination between sectoral support under the fisheries agreement and the instruments available under development cooperation, including the european development fund, through both their respective national programming and regional programming within the west africa region. the european commission should take the necessary measures, including the possible revision and increase of the sectoral support component of the agreement, along with the improvement of the conditions to increase the absorption rate of this support in order to ensure an effective reversal of the path followed in the last decades. as in other countries in the region, it is considered necessary to improve the quantity and reliability of information on catches and on the conservation status of fishery resources in general, as well as to develop côte d'ivoire's own capacity to obtain such information. i would just like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work and attention to these reports and stress that parliament must be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol or its renewal. we propose, in particular, that the european commission should submit an annual report to parliament on the results of the multiannual sectoral programme and on compliance with the requirement to declare catches.
mr president, this agreement is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa, which also includes the agreements with guinea-bissau, cape verde and são tomé and príncipe, among others. it's a deal of great geographical relevance. the port of abidjan is one of the leading ports in west africa, both in terms of landings and in terms of fish processing. its importance, particularly for tuna, demonstrates the relevance of this agreement to the union fisheries, considering that part of this fish is ultimately destined for this market. i would like to conclude by stressing my support for the agreement, stressing the need to ensure that the associated funds are effectively used to develop the socioeconomic sector of the blue economy of côte d'ivoire, but also to control the activity, in particular to ensure that the fish marketed and processed in the port of abidjan does not come from iuu fishing.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you honourable members. as requested by the rapporteur, the sectoral support will be largely increased to over eur 400 000. that’s almost an increase of some 35% to support local development and improved governance of fisheries. also, the commission will keep the parliament regularly informed of the implementation of this agreement and will also provide reports both on the catches and on the use of the eu financial contributions. the conclusion of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement will reinforce the stable relationship between the eu and côte d’ivoire for mutually beneficial outcomes. this new protocol is fully consistent with the eu’s ocean governance agenda, under which the union cooperates with third countries with the purpose of improving compliance with international measures, including combating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (iuu). to conclude i would like to thank the speakers for their comments, for their support for this protocol and especially the rapporteur, mr ferreira, for his report.
mr president, i would like to thank the various speakers and, in conclusion, to stress one of the points in the resolution we will be voting on tomorrow: the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire, in its implementation and in any revisions and/or renewals, must take into account and be in line with the relevant strategic plans, while fully respecting the sovereignty of côte d'ivoire, aiming at the development of the coastal-marine fisheries sector, in particular by strengthening controls and surveillance of the côte d'ivoire exclusive economic zone and measures to combat illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing, supporting the construction and/or rehabilitation of fish markets, landing piers and ports, in particular but not only in the port of abidjan, improving working conditions in the sector, including working conditions for women, in particular in the fisheries sector, enabling women to work in the fishing industry, and being more closely linked to the development of a more effective system of scientific and technical support, enhancing the sustainability of the global fisheries system, supporting the conservation of fishery resources, and enhancing the capacity of the marine artisanal fisheries sector. finally, we urge the european commission to provide information on the benefits that the implementation of the protocol will bring to local economies in terms of employment, infrastructure, improvement of social conditions, as well as on catches and the state of conservation of resources, so that we can better assess the impact of the agreement on the marine ecosystem and fishing communities.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the reports we are debating here today, i would like to mention in particular the important report on european citizenship which i have been following as the shadow rapporteur of my political group. i should like to begin where it should, by thanking our fellow rapporteur, maite ruiz, for the excellent spirit of cooperation which we have maintained and which has enabled us to produce a report which i believe is a good contribution by this parliament to qualifying democracy and strengthening european citizenship. this report comes at a crucial moment for the european project. at a time when this european project is under violent attack, the elections next may are decisive for the future of this european union that we have built over the last decades. it is therefore now more than ever that europeans must become fully aware of their status as citizens and exercise their first right of citizenship, the right to participate in politics by voting. but this requires an educational campaign to raise awareness of citizens' rights, starting with the right to vote, a major campaign against abstention. and we must also take on and recognise the truly european dimension of these elections and that they take place without obscure interference through social networks. only then will we have a european citizenship that meets the expectations of european citizens and qualifies our democracy.
mr president, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is the result of an attempt to give a social appearance to an integration project which, by its very nature and its policies, is clearly anti-social. this is another reason why this document is a minimalist and reductive acquis, compared, for example, with the universal declaration of human rights, national constitutions - as is the case with the constitution of the portuguese republic - or even with the social charter of the council of europe. the recent years have laid bare the incompatibility between the action and policies of the european union and the realisation of economic and social rights. the european union has been a blocking factor and not a promoter of rights. we look at the results of the european semester, at economic governance, at the budgetary treaty, at the action of the eurogroup, at the european commission, at the interventions of the troika, all of which are genuine instruments of compressing fundamental rights. it is becoming increasingly clear that the fundamental rights of peoples are and will be asserted against all this panoply of instruments which constrain their sovereign development.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will speak in portuguese, but first i would like to apologise to the chamber, to the president and to the vice-president of the commission, for being late. our way of life involves a lot of flying and when you are flying you cannot control the flight time. i am happy to have been able to attend a significant part of the debate and to speak at the end of it. senhor presidente, queria dizer que é com imenso orgulho que apresento este relatório, desde logo porque ele teve o apoio unânime da comissão de assuntos constitucionais e, portanto, significa que se conseguiu aqui uma base que é uma base, eu diria, muito consensual dentro dos membros da comissão de assuntos constitucionais, e que, portanto, foi de um lado da bancada até ao outro percorrendo todos os grupos políticos que ali estão representados, portanto isto é o primeiro ponto. o segundo é que era extremamente necessário fazer a reforma do estatuto do provedor de justiça europeu porque, talvez nem todos tenham consciência, mas o estatuto que nós tínhamos era anterior ao tratado de lisboa e, portanto, trata-se aqui, efetivamente, de fazer chegar, pelo menos ao eleitorado, nas eleições de 2019, um texto que esteja já em conformidade com o direito da união que já está em vigor há praticamente dez anos. devo, aliás, dizer que também é motivo de grande orgulho que este é um dos casos em que o parlamento tem iniciativa legislativa e, portanto, é um caso singular do ponto de vista constitucional e por isso é um relatório também importante nessa medida. dito isto, eu queria dizer quais foram os dois princípios que conduziram a feitura deste relatório. o primeiro foi: é preciso um novo estatuto adequado, mas não queremos, em caso nenhum, em caso nenhum romper com a ideia de soft law e de soft power que anda associada ao provedor de justiça. o poder do provedor de justiça, o poder do ombudsman é um poder suave, é um poder soft, é um poder informal. no dia em que ele passe a ser parte num processo, no dia em que ele passe a ter intervenções vinculantes, seja ainda que em domínios muito acabados, ele perde o seu poder. uma das razões pelas quais as instituições europeias, os vários corpos da união europeia, confiam no provedor é porque sabem que o seu poder não é vinculante. a sua autoridade e a sua força vêm da sua fraqueza, vêm da sua fragilidade. ora havia algumas propostas e algumas tentativas de tornar numa espécie de procurador o provedor. ora o provedor não é um procurador, o provedor não é um prossecutor, não é um ministério fiscal e, portanto, neste sentido, não é um pubblico ministero, como dizem os italianos e, portanto, é fundamental manter este soft power e creio que esse equilíbrio nós mantivemos. depois a segunda preocupação foi reforçar a independência, a imparcialidade, a isenção do provedor, dando-lhe todos os meios para que ele possa atuar, garantindo que ele pode ter acesso a todos os órgãos e a todas as entidades e pode ter acesso a informação confidencial embora, evidentemente, fique vinculado por essa confidencialidade. mas isso pode ser muito importante porque muitas vezes para chegar a algumas das suas conclusões, nos vários inquéritos que abre, nas várias diligências que faz, a capacidade de, por um lado, aceder a documentos confidenciais ou a informação confidencial, mas manter a confidencialidade dá-lhe, efetivamente, este estatuto. por isso o que nós fizemos foi também reforçar algumas das suas garantias de independência até no seu estatuto financeiro, etc., foi dar aqui alguma, diria eu, tradução prática à garantia de independência, de imparcialidade e de isenção do provedor e, portanto, manter o seu estatuto de soft power. eu dizia que são estas as duas grandes armas de intervenção, depois há pequenos ajustamentos, pequenos acertos, nos direitos de queixa, num conjunto de pequenas matérias, que eu julgo que aperfeiçoam, mas não rompem com aquela que é a tradição de uma instituição, que até agora funcionou bem, e, enfim, costuma-se dizer, até no futebol, que, em equipa que ganha não se mexe. e, portanto, numa equipa como esta, que é uma equipa ganhadora, que é a da provedoria de justiça europeia, evidentemente que nós mexemos o menos possível, mexemos o essencial para reforçar o seu estatuto e estamos muito satisfeitos que se tenha conseguido um grande consenso na comissão de assuntos constitucionais. oxalá amanhã no plenário esse consenso se traduza também numa votação que reforce o provedor de justiça europeu como um órgão no qual, não apenas as entidades europeias, mas especialmente os cidadãos da união europeia, podem confiar e confiar plenamente. é ele o seu defensor, é ele o seu provedor.
mr president, the debate on the future of europe was in fact a debate on the future of a process of capitalist integration which is in conflict with the principles and values of civilization, the result of the struggle of the peoples of the european continent. the european union is not europe. the future of europe is not confined to the scenarios in which the european union has wanted to limit the debate on its own future. it was soon clear that this debate was nothing more than a set-up, with conclusions drawn from the outset, and that what was intended was an exercise in justifying a new leap forward, deepening the neoliberal slope of integration, along with an even greater concentration of power in the major powers, the practical result of the end of the principle of unanimity which they now openly defend. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the future of europe cannot pass through here. it will be the struggle of the workers and the peoples that will shape a future more in line with their interests and aspirations.
mr president, artificial intelligence and robotics are helping to increase the social productivity of human labour. increased productivity creates the conditions for real wage increases and a better life, but this potential is constantly called into question in capitalist society in the interests of defence and profit-making. the capitalist appropriation of new technologies, with the replacement of workers by machines, the competition between workers and machines, the pressure to make capital profitable, drives exploitation and job insecurity. but the new technologies, instead of taking away the work of some and intensifying and degrading the work of others, could and can, conversely, be used to reduce significantly, without loss of income, the working time of all workers, reducing work rates, reducing unemployment rather than increasing it. a reduction in working time without reduction in wages or social benefits that would spread the existing workload across all workers. this is a very topical fight.
in writing. with this own-initiative report, the european parliament adopts a set of fundamental principles for the common values of the union to be embedded in the main pillars of the emerging digital society. in particular, it stipulates that the development of artificial intelligence (ai) must be in line with and respect fundamental rights, freedoms, dignity, privacy and be focused on meeting the concrete needs of people. the european union cannot but fight the global battle for innovation and scientific and technological leadership in strategic areas such as ai. to combat this with fewer financial resources and the necessary ethical guarantees in the use of data, it is necessary to adopt a different approach, focusing on the positive transformation of industrial and social organisation models, measuring the impacts of this transformation and exploiting the dynamics of change to increase the competitiveness and intelligence of production systems, combating inequalities and making public service systems such as health, safety or education and training systems sustainable. this view has prevailed in the ongoing negotiation of the digital europe programme in which i represent the s&d group and must prevail in the development of the digital society in the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was part of the delegation that went to managua from 24 to 27 january and i was able to witness the high price that journalists and students pay for the courage to denounce the brutal repression of the regime of daniel ortega. universities are cutting off the public funding they are entitled to, students are being charged with terrorism for participating in peaceful protests, are being sentenced to heavy prison sentences, and those who manage to escape are having difficulty resuming their education at the public universities of the countries where they have taken refuge. to silence any dissenting voice, the government loots newspaper offices and, on the charge of terrorism, arbitrarily detain journalists and force others into exile. if, during my visit to el chipote, i have verified the shameful and degrading conditions in the dungeons where journalists miguel mora and lúcia pineda are detained, i have received reports that these conditions, contrary to what we were assured, have worsened since our visit. lucia was isolated from the other prisoners and miguel transferred to el infiernillo. i therefore urge the nicaraguan authorities to release these political prisoners immediately or to allow them to await the hearing scheduled for 15 march under house arrest.
mr president, domestic violence, a concrete expression of the more general violence against women in our society, continues to take on brutal and intolerable forms. in fact, she will always be, in any case, brutal and intolerable. beyond the shock and commotion of public knowledge of each new concrete case, action is needed. action is needed to prevent, combat and eradicate. action is needed to provide effective and timely protection for victims, to strengthen social support and access to justice. it is necessary to act to transform the reality underlying domestic violence, to act on the economic, social, political and cultural causes that are at the origin of domestic violence, on the psychological dynamics that interact with them as a result of various dependencies. to act against all forms of daily violence, more or less concealed, against all forms of discrimination against women, in wages, in work, in life, against all obstacles to the full recognition of equality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, a europe that protects is a necessity. the protection of human life must be our priority. in 2017, in portugal, we had a huge tragedy where more than a hundred people lost their lives. it's something that can't be repeated. this new mechanism proves the solidarity of the european union, it shows that pride alone is not the solution, sharing, and sharing sovereignty in some areas, such as civil protection, reinforces that same sovereignty. there can be no relaxation of the member states, they must continue to invest in protection, and protection is the solution. there is another concern, which was a finding, there are finance ministers who did not want this agreement and who have been haggling over two hundred million euros, a ridiculous sum, for 2019 and 2020, something that we have to emphasize here and also emphasize the commitment of commissioner christos stylianides, of rapporteur gardini, so that we could have an agreement that, in effect, shows that the european union saves lives and is worthwhile.
mr president, today marks another decisive step in the creation of the new european union civil protection mechanism, under which the union will be able to provide better assistance, in a coordinated manner and to complement the action of the member states. the overwhelming disasters that have occurred across europe in recent years have put the current voluntary-contribution-based european civil protection mechanism to the test. let us recognize that in the key moments there was never a lack of solidarity, but what was often lacking were the resources needed for the required response. the creation of the reserve of assets at european level, as envisaged in resceu, is urgent, it is essential, and the report under discussion makes it possible to achieve this. i congratulate the rapporteur. on the basis of the principles of solidarity and responsibility-sharing, the union will be able to better assist its citizens. support to member states to improve risk management and to strengthen existing national measures will also be stepped up. but, commissioner, the implementation of these policies cannot be postponed. the operational capacity of resceu should not be jeopardised by the political and bureaucratic difficulties resulting from the ongoing debate on the financial perspectives 2021-2027. as rapporteur appointed by the european parliament in the context of the post-2020 multiannual financial framework, i recently put a priority written question to the commission on the timetable for the publication of the legislative proposal for the financing of this mechanism. if it were published today, it wouldn't be so soon. it would be intolerable if that publication did not take place in this parliament. catastrophes do not wait. european citizens need resceu now.
mr president, commissioner, it is positive and desirable that cooperation in the field of disaster response should be increased, especially in the case of major disasters. such cooperation can and should involve coordination of efforts, the lending of resources, and also the sharing of certain means of response. the european union has not done all it can in this area. the 2017 fire situation in portugal has clearly demonstrated this. in the field of disaster prevention too, things have fallen short of what was desirable. we are also very concerned about the prospect of further cuts in the funding for economic and social cohesion, which is where much of the resources for disaster prevention come from. disasters are unjust, they almost always strike more states and populations with the least means of defending themselves. but it is important that we do not go from a situation where we do not do everything we can to a situation where we want to do more than we should, and here, just a note to say that it is very important that the chains of command remain at the national level. the usurpation of chains of command to a supranational level, as envisaged in the european commission's initial proposal, would raise serious risks, which fortunately could be avoided by correcting this part of the proposal and keeping the chains of command at the national level, where they should in fact be.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. mr president, this matter requires a serious and not demagogic discussion for the sake of the health of europeans, the work of our farmers and the political seriousness of what we are doing here. it is obvious that we can use pesticides in a more sustainable way, and it is also obvious that farmers have the greatest interest in maintaining a clean and sustainable environment. your livelihood depends on it. i therefore regret the general tone of this document which attributes agriculture as the main cause of the misuse of these products, when we know that their use is widespread among professionals and non-professionals in other sectors as well. climate change is triggering the emergence of new pests that we must urgently combat and thus protect our crops and production. the way forward is not to eradicate pesticides, but to focus on the greatest number of available low-risk active substances and on the selective administration of these products. i would like to say again that the european union has the safest agri-food system in the world and that in the most recent studies 97.2% of samples of agricultural products show residues well below the legal limit. on the contrary, recent research has shown that pesticide residues are more prevalent in products of organic origin than in conventional production. these are the facts.
mr president, the unsustainable use of pesticides is causing serious environmental, public health and food safety problems. this unsustainable use is inseparable from the current production models favoured by the common agricultural policy and the trade policies of the european union. productivist, export-oriented models that leave food production, something of obvious strategic importance in any society, in the hands of agribusiness. the same policies that have been and continue to be devastating for small and mediumsized farms and family farms are of crucial importance for the sustainable occupation of the territory and the food sovereignty of the states. there is no doubt that stricter procedures are needed to control the use of pesticides. there is no doubt that new products and processes need to be developed which involve fewer risks and less impact on health and the environment. but it is also necessary to make a profound change in the existing production models and the policies that make them possible.
madam president, commissioner, feeding a world population of over seven billion people presents challenges to which the agri-food industry has responded with high efficiency. however, we cannot let it all go to waste in the production game. on the one hand, we are restricting or reducing biodiversity and agro-diversity through the use of pesticides of high toxicity and with an unknown impact on human health. on the other hand, we continue to approve genetically modified organisms that are resistant to the pesticides we select for commercial convenience. it is not surprising, therefore, that there is a low availability of low-risk plant protection products, including biological ones, of which there are only 13 out of a total of 500 substances available on the market. the reality is that the insufficient implementation of the directive and the discussions of approval by member states create unequal conditions of competition in europe. there is a barrier to the full market uptake of sustainable alternatives with a consequent reduced attractiveness for farmers who obviously prefer the most cost-effective options in the short term.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank ivo belet for his excellent work. europe is made of solidarity and cooperation. unfortunately, health captured in the principle of subsidiarity is witness to the greatest asymmetries within the european union. the hope that this directive on crossborder healthcare represented does not seem to have reached its full intention. patients don't know it exists, healthcare professionals don't know it or use it, and payers raise the biggest bureaucratic and administrative barriers for them. but we cannot just throw this directive on the shelf of the intention books. we must make the directive work. it is crucial for patients and for member states, especially for the people who benefit most from the european scale, which are the citizens with rare diseases, including some of the cancer diseases. cooperation through european reference networks must be stimulated to attract knowledge and must evolve towards becoming genuine centres of expertise within the union. i also want to mention the importance of ehealth as it can be the bridge needed to connect the far-flung margins of state bureaucracies, but there is one thing ehealth cannot do for us and that is to unite us on the different policies regarding neonatal screening and vaccination programmes. this is another step we still have to take towards a fairer europe.
madam president, commissioner, since 2008 the european parliament has defined that the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the european union must have a systemic approach to water management, which includes less consumption of drinking water, especially for purposes where it is not needed. more recently, through the circular economy action plan, we have returned to this point, but it is urgent that the commission follow up with a plan 2.0 to keep water resources as one of the priority areas of intervention. the reuse of properly treated reclaimed water for irrigation purposes must be conditional on respect for the environment and human and animal health. it is therefore clear that reusing water cannot lead to eutrophication of soils and ground and surface water, which would be disruptive to ecosystems and contribute to the reduction of biodiversity. the role of the competent authorities in cooperation with end-users in promoting water reuse is also important. finally, there is an urgent need to renew the water distribution infrastructure, which is old and in poor condition, resulting in significant losses and other losses on a daily basis as well as in the financial resources invested.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that more must be done by the european union in terms of coordinating the response capacity to the civil and humanitarian crises that the various member states may face in the coming years. while acknowledging the recent efforts made by this mechanism in portugal, i would stress that we are at a stage of negotiation which is crucial to its full development and implementation and for which greater speed and less institutional deadlock between member states are required. that is why i believe it is time to recognise that the european civil protection mechanism, by promoting a stronger collective european response, plays a crucial role in shaping a common strategy capable of addressing rapidly the climate and humanitarian challenges we face today. i reiterate the need to do more and better, starting with the consolidation of resceu as a reserve capacity to complement the resources that each member state already has at its disposal.
madam president, we have talked about no-fly zones, humanitarian corridors, bringing the criminal assad to the icc, but in fact there has been no europe to come to the aid of the syrian people. and so putin took advantage and assad holds on. member states boycotted the common security and defence policy. in syria, the results are disastrous for the credibility of the european union, as the latest euromed survey shows, but above all for the security of syrians and europeans, because what we have been manufacturing in syria is more generations of the offended and excluded to swell the ranks of recruits for any terrorist groups. i am not even talking about the europeans whom we euphemistically call foreign fighters and who have added to the ranks of daesh and who are now irresponsibly washing their hands of our governments. the treachery of the syrian people is compounded by the treachery of the europeans and americans once again against the kurdish people, who have so fundamentally fought as our allies against the terrorist forces of daesh and other terrorist groups. the marriage of convenience between putin and erdogan will not last. the european union cannot simply wipe out the bad conscience with humanitarian support, it has to demand that trump not withdraw in haste, playing into the hands of putin and erdogan.
mr president, mr prime minister, it is of course with great pleasure that we hear you here and with great respect for the will of the italian people. there is, however, one point i would like to stress: it is a pity that the present italian government does not honour the memory of aldo moro with its europeanism and its dedication to the european cause. it is not enough to quote him in relation to the mediterranean, we must quote him in relation to europe. let me say, as a portuguese, that i am very surprised by the italian government's position on the venezuelan question. not only because it calls into question the question of european foreign policy, but because, just as there is a large portuguese community in caracas and venezuela, there is also a large italian community. does the italian government not think of the italians who are suffering under the maduro regime and who are suffering the misery he has imposed on them? this is the question the italian government should have answered by now. it's not enough to answer now. i should have answered the first hour.
in writing. the eu must have a seat and speak with one voice in the unsc. but italy is one of the member states which has been driving this design, which requires solidarity and cohesion. it's to see the conflict your government has created with france. it is true that italy is at the forefront of the influx of migrants and refugees and has been unfairly and stupidly left alone for too long. but that started to change in 2015. but instead of demanding more solidarity, his government has come to crush all efforts for the eu to manage the influx and integration of migrants and refugees, including by boycotting the revision of the dublin regulation, on the basis of salvini's populist, xenophobic, racist and anti-european discourse. just as in america prohibition was al capone's best friend, in italy today there are thriving mafias who are profiting from the inhumane hunt for migrants, refugees and activists who try to help them. with no legal and safe pathways in the eu to manage the flows of refugees and migrants, the mafia that traffics them feeds. today, the al capone of these mafias seems to be in his government and calls himself salvini.
the budget of italy has been since the change of government in italy. in an unprecedented move, the european commission 'dismissed' the state budget proposal submitted by the italian government, giving it three weeks to revise the document and bring it into line with the rules of the euro and economic governance. this episode in itself reveals once again the profoundly anti-democratic character of the european union and confirms its policy of interference and imposition of the rules and constraints of the stability pact and the budget treaty. but just when we thought we had seen everything, just when everything pointed to the imposition of yet another excessive deficit procedure, france, in order to solve its internal problems, decided to break the deficit rule. the italian case was never mentioned again. what was negotiated within the eurogroup, no one knows. but what this episode confirms is that, once again, the rules do not apply equally to all eurozone countries where there appear to be children and stepchildren.
mr president, commissioner, this european parliament must approve without further delay the three important agreements with singapore that are finally before us. the partnership and cooperation agreement, because it does justice to the strategic importance of our relationship with singapore. the investment protection agreement, because it is another step towards the eradication of private arbitration systems and because it will repeal thirteen obsolete bilateral agreements. and the trade agreement, because it facilitates trade relations with a relevant partner in southeast asia, because it promotes sustainable development and because it contains clear commitments from singapore to ratify the conventions of the international labour organization. we also approve a progressive resolution, such as the one proposed to us by our colleague david martin, and we vote in favour without further delay.
these agreements are essential for a european union which does not want to be closed in on itself, but seeks to open up to the world and thus contribute actively and positively to the regulation of the great phenomenon of globalisation. this particular partnership and cooperation agreement, which we are discussing here today, is a good starting point for the european union to become more politically and economically involved in a key region of the world such as south-east asia. it will certainly provide the basis for improving the bilateral relationship of the eu and its member states with singapore, strengthening political dialogue and allowing for better cooperation in a wide range of areas. this agreement covers the european union's standard political clauses on human rights, with regard to the international criminal court, the issue of weapons of mass destruction, light and small arms, and the fight against terrorism. it also covers key areas such as health, the environment, climate change, energy... (the president cut the speaker off)
author. mr president, commissioner, allow me first of all to highlight the work and cooperation with all the colleagues who have contributed to the construction of this question and resolution. the evidence of the backsliding of women's rights in the european union is not one to be missed. in the last decade women's labour, economic, social and cultural rights have been severely compromised. the right-wing policies, sponsored or imposed by the european union, have led to an increase in the precariousness of industrial relations. the policies of low wages, the deregulation of working hours, the increase in the retirement age, which impose multiple discriminations on women. at the same time, social and public service responses have deteriorated. the degradation or absence of public services to ensure assistance and care, whether in childhood, in sickness or old age, constitutes a shameful lack of responsibility on the part of the states in responding to the needs of the population, contributing to situations that exclude women from the labour market. the protection of maternity, as defined by law, is undermined by the enormous pressure on women workers to renounce their rights, a direct consequence of the precariousness of working relationships. the degradation of public health services and the assault on the right to sexual and reproductive health is another element of the attack on women's rights. attempts to reverse or prevent the granting of rights in the voluntary termination of pregnancy and to ensure that women are provided with adequate reproductive health care are known and unacceptable. global levels of poverty and unemployment, which particularly affect women, remain at unsustainable levels. the gender pay and pension gaps remain unacceptably high. the increase in violence against women, which has been taking place during this same period, cannot be separated from the curtailment of rights and the deterioration of the socioeconomic conditions of the population. in my country, since the beginning of the year, nine women and one child have been killed as victims of domestic violence. these figures are a brutal and growing expression in the european union of the multiple forms of violence against women, whether domestic violence, sexual violence and harassment, violence and harassment in the workplace, violence and exploitation in prostitution. the enshrinement of equality and the fight against violence in law, whether in the national or international sphere, as exemplified by the istanbul convention, are important and necessary steps, but enshrinement in law is not enough. there can be no room for make-believe policies in equality policies or quick fixes in the fight against all forms of violence. the successful prevention, combating and eradication of violence against women in its many forms is inseparable from the realisation of women's rights in law and in life. specific programmes for the protection and support of victims, measures to strengthen social support, access to justice, shelter homes, mental health care in the areas of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, responses that guarantee economic autonomy and that guarantee, in practice, confidence and security that the law does indeed protect women victims of violence at the various stages until they rebuild their lives, need to be set up. the path of women's economic and social emancipation is crucial in the construction of equality and the fight against all forms of violence. this requires placing work at the centre of the solution to the inequalities between men and women. equality in life, which requires the fight against unemployment and precarious employment, the enhancement of wages and the elimination of wage discrimination, the equal participation of women in all sectors of activity, the right to be a mother and a worker with rights, social protection of maternity and paternity in the personal areas of health and social security, the creation of a public network of child, youth, elderly, disabled and victims of violence support facilities, access to the national health service and protection of sexual and reproductive health, the protection of women victims of prostitution and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation and sexual harassment or in the workplace. the fight for equality and against all forms of violence is a fight for all, a fight which requires states to assume their responsibilities and to assert themselves as an indispensable element in the promotion of equality and the fight against all forms of violence.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to discuss such an important subject here today. i will focus particularly on the rights of intersex people, which should be protected in all member states and which are the subject of one of your questions to the council. i would like to begin by stating very clearly that violence and discrimination have no place in european society. we should not forget that romania’s presidency of the council of the european union has as one of its priorities combating discrimination of any kind. the principles and values enshrined in the eu treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and eu legislation are not up for negotiation or bargaining. in europe, the commitment to decency, tolerance and equal treatment is the very foundation of the idea of a just society. this is a source of pride for europeans, and for good reason: our society is becoming more inclusive and diverse than ever before. together, we have taken steps to guarantee equal treatment for women, ethnic minorities, sexual minorities, persons with disabilities, religious minorities and citizens of all ages. and we continue to work on that. i believe that all three eu institutions fundamentally agree on the direction of the journey – towards even greater emancipation and tolerance. i am proud to say that the council has already adopted legislation that clearly prohibits discrimination on the grounds listed in article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but, as you well know, the anti-discrimination law book remains incomplete. we have better protection, at eu level in respect of discrimination on some grounds rather than others. as many of you have often reminded us, the council has not yet exhausted its legal capabilities in that regard. i would like now to turn to the specific issue of violence and discrimination against intersex people. for, indeed, you speak of real suffering in the questions you have put to the council and the commission today. i am proud to point out that, in june 2016, the council responded positively to the commission’s list of actions to advance lgbti equality. it was the first time that the council had adopted a declaration devoted to the advancement of equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons. so it was a historic moment. in its conclusions the council invited the commission to promote the measures outlined in this list of actions and to report on a regular basis on the progress achieved. the council also invited the member states to take their own actions to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. it is, of course, the responsibility of the member states to hear that call. honourable members, the advancement of equal treatment is a joint effort to which we all must contribute. when it comes to cooperation at eu level, the commission’s list of actions, including the exchange of good practice, is to be welcomed. the commission has also undertaken a campaign of awareness raising. the fundamental rights agency is also making important contributions by mapping out the situation of intersex people, including the problems they face in terms of birth registration as well as the matter of non-necessary surgery – which you mentioned – and the closely related problem of informed consent. this is, first and foremost, a question of medical ethics, for which the member states are responsible and accountable. the issue of birth registration is also a national matter. indeed, when it comes to the more specific issues identified in your question, it is the member states that have the key competences. however, this does not mean there is no european dimension or solution. of course there is. as you know, the category of intersex is not included on the list of prohibited discrimination grounds in the treaties, but i believe it is obvious that extending the right to equal treatment for intersex people is entirely within the spirit of our common european values and our common campaign for inclusiveness. as we pursue, improve and defend our values, we all benefit from constructive exchanges, including the one we are holding here today and the vote you will have tomorrow. thank you for your attention. i would like to remind you, as i said at the beginning, that the romanian presidency of the council has as one of its priorities the fight against discrimination, and this is one of the opportunities that we are proud to have.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first start by thanking parliament for tabling this debate on the discrimination against lgbti people. the commission is committed to the advancement of equality of lgbti people and welcomes that parliament has ensured, through the report, that these issues, and particularly the situation of intersex persons, are kept high on the political radar screen. it is exactly for this reason that we published a list of actions to advance lgbti equality, in december 2015. in the coming months we will present a third report on the implementation of the list of actions. i will come back to this list of actions at the end of this opening remark. let me say a few words on the problems related to intersex people who, as we all know and as you mentioned many times, are having serious problems because they do not fit into the main gender categories – female and male. the unnecessary surgical operations and treatments that intersex children may undergo are especially worrying since they are not able to give their fully informed consent due to their young age. however, according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the definition of health policies and the organisation and delivery of health services, fall under the responsibility of member states. the commission respects the principle of subsidiarity in the area of ethical accountability for the surgical treatment that intersex young people and children undergo. the possibility to provide a third gender option at birth or in public documents are also competences of the member states. regarding transgender people, member states have to ensure that the relevant laws are applied in accordance with the latest international human rights standards. the european court of human rights ruled that the condition of compulsory sterilising surgery or treatment for legal gender recognition violated article 8 of the convention. so i will now come back to our list of actions which aim to advance lgbti rights. within the framework, or based on this list of actions, the commission has carried out several activities to raise awareness of the difficulties that transgender and intersex people experience. it recently published a new report on trans and intersex equality rights in europe. we also financially support civil society organisations whose work also includes promoting transgender and intersex equality. we have released awareness raising videos and we organised a good practice exchange between the member states on these topics. upon the request of parliament, the pilot project health4lgbti was carried out, which also focused on the specific health issues transgender and intersex people face. as part of the list of actions, the commission also monitors and enforces existing rights of lgbti people under the free movement directive. the commission welcomes the recent ruling by the court in the coman case and the commission will monitor member states’ compliance with the eu free movement acquis as regards issues related to sexual orientation. the commission will continue to implement the list of actions to advance lgbti rights in 2019. this year a new eurobarometer on discrimination, including relevant questions for lgbti equality, and the second fundamental rights agency lgbti survey will take place. these surveys will provide us with important data that will help us to target our future actions. this year is the year of evaluation and preparatory works for the future, updated lgbti list of actions which should be adopted by the newly established commission and endorsed by parliament. the commission is committed to successfully and positively handing over its work to advance lgbti equality to the next commission, which will have to decide how it will continue these policies. but i will strongly recommend that my successor involve the european parliament and civil society organisations in the design of its future lgbti list of actions, as also suggested in the motion we are debating today. i want also to react to the debate we have heard up to now. the commission continues to promote the adoption of the horizontal equal treatment directive. as you rightly pointed out, i will call it a shameful situation that it has been blocked for years in the council. you are aware that this piece of legislation requires unanimous adoption. that’s why we need to have all the member states on board. when i indicated that after so many years of having this blocked, the treaty offers the option of enhanced cooperation, you will not be surprised that the member states – at least in the reactions i got in the council meetings, but also in many bilateral meetings where i raised this issue – confirmed that they need more time and they do not want us to go for the enhanced cooperation, because this is about fundamental rights. so i just convey this information to you and i will continue to keep pushing because we regularly discuss the prospects of this directive, which i would like to see in a positive way. my last comment: you also raised the issue of hate speech online and hate speech in general. the commission is continuing very intensive work, together with the it sector, to achieve a radical decrease in hate speech online and a decrease in hate speech from the social networks. we are reasonably successful. the it sector is doing what it committed itself to do in the code of conduct and we will continue to do this exercise in the future until the end of my mandate.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, after the me too movement thousands of lgbti people shared on twitter stories of discrimination and homophobic bullying under the hashtag mequeer, many of them our fellow europeans. in the 21st century, the european union still lacks comprehensive protection against discrimination on grounds of gender identity, sexual orientation and sexual characteristics. lgbti persons continue to be excluded from genuine freedom of movement and from the union's social inclusion strategies, such as the european pillar of social rights, and there are still asymmetries in the protection of their civil rights and access to basic public services such as education, health or social security in different member states. against this background, commissioner, the commission must develop an inclusive strategy for lgbti people, including the promotion of the civil recognition of intersex people, the implementation of projects to prevent homophobic and transphobic violence in the education systems of the member states and also guaranteeing the necessary protection for lgbti asylum seekers.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done. it was indeed an amazing job. secondly, i would like to emphasize the increase in the cofinancing rate of 85% for the outermost regions and the least developed regions. thirdly, i would like to touch on the question of macroeconomic conditionality which appears in this regulation, the well-known article 15. we should not use european funds to punish member states which do not meet the deficit targets. this penalisation means subverting cohesion policy, turning it into a sanctioning instrument, when in its very essence it is an investment instrument, it means mortgaging the development of the regions and it also means voting for the outermost regions to double austerity. we also have to be consistent, in 2016 this parliament spoke with one voice against the sanctions that would be targeted at portugal and spain for not meeting the deficit. finally, to say that these measures are a bad signal to the european citizens, assuming that austerity can be partial or total. we have a political obligation and we have a moral duty to end austerity.
mr president, commissioner, your proposal is bad, it is very bad indeed. it is good that there is a parliament, a parliament which is a co-legislator and is on an equal footing with the council. with our proposal we can continue to call cohesion policy cohesion policy, with your proposal we could not call it cohesion policy. how could we accept a 45% cut in the cohesion fund, the fund which is intended precisely for the poorest member states, those which have less than 90% of gross national income? the cohesion and solidarity of the european union is a matrix which we cannot lose, which we must at least maintain in terms of amounts. and with this proposal of ours, with the maintenance of the amounts, with the maintenance of the cofinancing rates, which are essential for the poorer regions, we can tell the citizens of the european union that social, economic and territorial cohesion will continue and thanks to parliament which will now negotiate with the member states. and here is a question for the commissioner: which member states are actually cutting back on cohesion policy? parliament has already said here, and will vote, that it will not accept cuts in this policy.
in writing. the so-called macroeconomic conditionality has been and is at the basis of blackmail and the threat of sanctions to states, as was done to portugal in 2016, with the prospect of suspending the structural and investment funds due to the failure to meet the deficit and debt targets imposed by the eu. but that is not the only negative aspect of this proposal. these common provisions continue to link cohesion policy to other forms of conditionality, stemming from the european semester, its instruments (country recommendations, national reform plans) and the neoliberal agenda of the european union. the decision-making process on priorities for the implementation of the funds decisions that are increasingly outside the institutions of national sovereignty and the specific development needs of each country and a thematic concentration on the strategic objectives of the eu, defined in the interests of its major powers, but independent of national strategic priorities and objectives, are maintained. the overall amounts foreseen for the structural and investment funds are also still insufficient. it is not enough to keep 'cohesion' funds at the same level as the current budget, they must be reinforced to counteract the dynamics of economic and social divergence prevailing within the eu.
mr president, mr minister, mr moscovici, the commissioner has brought up the question of the bridge clause and, in essence, the conversion of unanimity in the creation of revenue into qualified majority voting. i'm going to tell you something you may not know, mr. moscovici, and the news is this: the problem is that in the agreement which the socialist party, which is in government in portugal, of minister mário centeno, concluded with the psd on the financing of the european budget, with regard to the future of cohesion policies, it actually stated the following: by emphasising the reservation of member states' sovereignty in taxation, it is essential to increase revenue for the european budget without penalising taxpayers. so you have established that there is a national tax reserve and i would therefore like to know whether minister mário centeno, in ecofin, defended the position which the socialist party has subscribed to in the agreement on the future financial framework, namely that the revenue of the european union must then pass through the national parliaments.
mr president, fair competition and social justice do not exist in a union where member states compete in tax dumping, leaving some to be tax havens for others and all to be tax havens for the kleptocracies of the world. in portugal, the troika blessed the fiscal amnesty of 2012. a massive money laundering operation, while brutally raising taxes on those who pay them. shocking injustice is the portuguese state, while continuing to use taxpayers' money to save banks, to have, until today, recovered nothing from overseas assets revealed by successive financial scandals, including the criminal tax blackout that, between 2011 and 2015, under the watch of the troika, allowed the diversion of more than ten billion euros to offshore without tax control or laundering. yes, the path to fiscal justice runs through the european union. what country alone can let the tech giants enact a financial transaction tax? not to mention the ccctb or the urgent reform of the vat to end tax evasion that gives billions to organized crime, including terrorist groups. for that we absolutely need to put an end to unanimity in the council on taxation. the shocking tax injustice is calling into question democracy in europe, it is calling into question the european union itself.
mr president, commissioner moscovici, portugal is a sovereign nation, not a region of the european union. i believe in a europe of nations. the ability to raise and collect taxes is one of the sovereign manifestations of countries that i do not accept - when portugal only has one vote in the council - that the portuguese prime minister, antónio costa, sells to brussels at the balance price. it was the last thing we needed, that only sixteen countries, for example, decided to tax the portuguese sea and portugal, through its government, could not say 'no'. that's all i need! we are absolutely against the end of unanimity in the council on taxation. i would also like to ask how the commission is unaware that article 355 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union expressly prohibits the derogation from unanimity when own resources are concerned. by the way, commissioner, we are three months away from elections, and then people complain that populism is on the rise. does it seem normal that three months before the elections, at the expense of the national parliaments, the decision is taken to end the unanimity of the states, to end the right of veto? what a difference between general de gaulle, who fixed the unanimity, a great european statesman, because of the vital interests of the states, and the socialist pierre moscovici and the portuguese antónio costa, who decided to sell out the vital interests of their countries.
mr president, proper health technology assessment (hta) can be the unbiased tipping point for the game-changing technologies available for patients. this is a matter of supranational interest for european citizens and cannot be weighed only by economic factors. assessments, pricing and reimbursement can be set as a touchstone for the sustainability of health systems. so far, this is the only tool able to ensure that citizens have affordable and effective treatments vis-à-vis the values demanded by profit-making manufacturers. however, the reality shows that hta is fragmented throughout europe. in fact, by reaching different outcomes, these assessments leave citizens and health professionals with different spans of choice, according to their member states. here, you can also count on us to fight for equal opportunities. this proposal relies on the collaboration of member states but still leaves room for national decisions. by centralising the clinical assessment we can avoid duplication, save resources and, above all, create a european union with less asymmetry in access to health care. this proposal is only effective with the combined efforts of the national regulatory agencies and i greatly salute the integration of patient representatives in the assessment procedure. this will make hta involved from mere farmer ecological data on to a more realistic evaluation. that weights the contributions to the patients’ quality of life. but for the assessments to be beyond any doubt, they need to be as transparent as possible. this is the only way to build confidence in the health technology chain of value. i hope this regulation will bring us closer to the united, safe and healthy europe we all long for.
mr president, i have received a letter from the father of amaya coppens, a belgian nicaraguan citizen who is in prison in nicaragua on terrorism charges and whom we, who were there, met. she was beaten in prison in retaliation for meeting with us, for what she told us, and now she doesn't get any visits from her family. this is horrible and another reason to join my voice with that of comrades jáuregui and gabriel mato, asking for the president's intervention in relation to this repression of the murillo/ortega duo in nicaragua.
mr president, russia has not respected the imf treaty and trump has once again decided to play putin's game. the united states and russia have thus set off in retaliatory escalation to bring us back into a nuclear arms race, into an era of increased nuclear danger, if only by miscalculation. and what about the start treaty, which aims to drastically reduce the number of nuclear weapons of the united states and russia, which expires in 2021? what happens, in the face of technological advances that allow supersonic nuclear? how does china react? what do you do when europe is at the geographical centre of the threat? we cannot allow europe to become a chessboard again between the united states and russia. we can't be afraid to accept what's unacceptable. i am for a zero-nuclear policy, letting them go back, therefore, to multiplying american nuclear missiles on our soil. this is the time for a europe of defence to assume political and military responsibilities with strategic autonomy. it is the only way to defend our interests, to speak up and actually prevent the planet from sliding into catastrophe.
mr president, commissioner, fortunately common sense has finally prevailed. the final version of the new regulation on the control of foreign investment, which resulted from the trilogue between the european institutions, is a balanced solution, it allows us to respond to legitimate concerns when particularly important assets are at risk, but it does so without undermining the capacity to attract foreign investment. and it should be remembered that foreign investment is important for the european economy and it is even more important for european countries that lack the equity to invest. i therefore welcome the two fundamental rules that have been enshrined: the fact that the new procedure for exchanging information and analysing investments is exceptional and reserved for cases where security and public order are at stake, and the fact that the final decision on investments belongs to the sovereign states. they decide on investments in their own territory. we can thus move forward in protecting our common interests without compromising our ability to attract foreign investment.
mr president, we note the european union's concern about strategic companies. now we've agreed that you have to have a certain amount of nerve! so was it not the european union that forced portugal, especially during the troika, to sell all its strategic companies in the energy, transport and financial sectors? we were stunned! this proposal cannot be dissociated from the growing penetration of chinese capital into the european economy. it is important to say that for us the source of capital is not important, what is decisive is the public control over these companies. and in this connection we call on the commission to stretch its hand and create the conditions for countries like portugal to regain control, sovereignty over these strategic companies in the name of their development.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial services industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial services industry. the first five banks operating in the portuguese domestic market collected eur 1,876 million in commissions in 2018, an increase of almost eur 100 million compared to the previous year. every day that passes, financial institutions in portugal take out from their customers 5.14 million euros a day. at the same time, banking in portugal laid off more than four thousand workers in 2017 alone, closing hundreds of counters, with special emphasis on the most disadvantaged regions. so once again, as always, the banks are profiting on both sides, at the expense of the workers and their customers.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, this proposal is clear: the objective of this regulation is to promote further liberalisation of the road transport sector. if, in the name of the single market, they had already opened the door to concentrations in the sector for the benefit of the large multinationals, now the commission and this parliament intend to go further. they have opened the doors of national markets by imposing on member states a set of rules for the operation of their own road passenger transport services. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this further liberalisation of national markets will make it easier for large european companies to take over the transport network in the member states, with foreseeable and verifiable consequences. apart from the resulting concentration of the sector, the degradation of transport services provided to the population, the degradation of infrastructure and terminals and the degradation of the working conditions of workers in the sector are to be expected. at the same time, it removes the instruments of the member states for defending their transport strategies, in particular by jeopardising the safeguarding and development of the public transport sector and the increase in the supply of public transport to the detriment of the population. we reject this strategy, which is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution rejecting it, as an opportunity to safeguard the interests of the population and to make public transport more valuable.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, there is a directive which has received extremely positive reviews and has made a huge improvement in reducing the suffering of animals during transport and in providing better physical conditions for the means of transport. as a less positive aspect, we have a lack of commitment on the part of some member states, the lack of harmonisation of the fines systems within the european union, which should be more severe and more punitive for those who commit offences, and equivalent throughout the european area. we also have problems in some third countries with the lack of respect for european requirements, and that is a fact. however, we cannot take this debate into the ideological field, nor take advantage of the proximity of the european elections to push through a radical agenda which only brings discredit to this meritorious directive, without any positive consequences for the animals being transported. aspects such as the strengthening of controls, the impossibility of transporting animals which are not in optimum health conditions, the fact that they must be slaughtered, wherever possible, as close as possible to the farms where they are found, the possible creation of a mobile slaughterhouse network to avoid long transport, as well as the encouragement of the transport of meat and carcasses instead of live animals, deserve our support and proposals. we cannot accept, however, that the transport of live animals should be eliminated from the european area and european exports. we do not all live in the centre of europe and we must have the utmost respect for the peripheral countries and geographical discontinuity and we cannot question the love farmers have for their animals or think that they are responsible for the mistreatment.
mr president, after years of harassment and intimidation, oyub titiev, the director of the memorial human rights centre and the 2018 vaclav havel human rights prize winner, was illegally arrested on 9 january 2018 on fabricated drug charges. a week later, memorial’s office in ingushetia was set on fire. two months ago, shali city court prolonged – without any justification – his pre—trial detention until 22 march 2019. he may face up to 10 years in prison. memorial – 2009 sakharov prize winner – is the last independent non—governmental organisation operating in chechnya and titiev’s arbitrary detention is clearly politically motivated and a retaliation for his courage to document the kidnappings, torture, illegal arrests and killings in one of the most repressive regions in europe. like we did one year ago, we must call on the authorities of the chechen republic of the russian federation to immediately and unconditionally release oyub titiev, and also address the situation of human rights defenders, including the massive persecution and extrajudicial killing of lgbti people.
mr president, as demonstrators filled the streets of harare last january to protest against the dramatic increase of fuel prices and runaway inflation, president mnangagwa reacted with the same authority, reflecting thus his autocratic predecessor robert mugabe, deploying soldiers and security forces to crack down on demonstrators, resulting in numerous arrests, the deaths of at least a dozen unarmed civilians and the shutting down of the internet. president mnangagwa, who was elected on a promise to stabilise the economy and allow greater democratic freedom, is betraying his promises to create a new zimbabwe and address the political and economic challenges in the country. the eu, besides condemning the excessive violence and intimidation by the zimbabwean authorities and calling for the immediate release of all detainees, must extend the individual financial and travel restrictions to those associated with these human rights infringements, and support an inclusive national dialogue that can produce a roadmap to genuine economic, political and electoral reforms.
mr president, the world cannot continue to ignore what is happening in saudi arabia. the regime of mohammad bin salman arrests raif badawi, sakharov laureate, activists like loujain al-hathloul kidnapped in the emirates. it is the regime of the oppressive guardians of women, which quarters critics like jamal khashoggi, oppresses people at home and in neighboring countries like bahrain, provokes in syria, iraq and iran, conducts a war of extermination in yemen and promotes extremist proselytism around the world. it is unacceptable that the member states of the european union are not yet applying an arms embargo in accordance with the common position. it is criminal that european politicians and organisations are being bought off by the saudi regime, including in this parliament and even in the college of europe. targeted sanctions, including asset freezes, are indispensable against the ringleaders of this regime. governments, banks and obliged entities are now under intense scrutiny to implement the european commission's decision to include saudi arabia on the list of high-risk third countries for money laundering and terrorist financing. the brave women, who are fighting for human rights in saudi arabia, their own and everyone's, and to take the country out of this dictatorship ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this parliament cannot keep on ignoring the harsh reality that women in saudi arabia face in their daily life to promote equal rights. since may 2018, the authorities in saudi arabia have arrested more than a dozen women activists without charge and kept most of them in prison without any hope of release. just last week, at the eu—league of arab states summit in brussels, saudi arabia committed itself to a more progressive agenda on gender equality, but its actions show quite the opposite. israa al-ghomgham is the first woman to be sentenced to death simply for participating in protests. exposed to gender-based violence and for challenging traditional notions of family and gender roles in society, women like israa, are being, as we speak, treated by the saudi authorities as agents of embassies and therefore dealt with as a real threat to religion, honour and culture, which implies undeserved punishment. madam commissioner, we cannot turn a blind eye to the reality in saudi arabia. we must condemn these arbitrary trials and urge the saudi authorities to immediately release these activists. europe must take a clear stand against this repression and act accordingly.
madam president, i will speak in english because i want you all to understand me on this. how can we talk about companies like cambridge analytica, which we accuse of having developed processes to influence elections in countries, but then we say nothing about the entities that produce rankings about the work of meps which are absolutely false, using shameful and subjective criteria, and can also influence the european parliament election results in four months’ time? who owns those entities? who controls them? who supervises them? who develops the algorithms, and with what kind of motivations? i want to be clear. entities like mep ranking are a shame for democracy, and parliament should do something about it. (the president cut off the speaker)
i voted in favour of this question to the commission because i see that as the fight for gender equality and women's rights intensifies, we are encountering more obstacles along the way, which must be avoided and eliminated once and for all. the emergence of nationalist regimes, the creation of administrative barriers within companies themselves and the limitation of women's access to education are just a few symptomatic examples of an unfair and uninclusive europe that we have seen and do not want. to reverse this situation, i believe that member states must lead by example, and that example is to ensure that all forms of violence against women, including harmful traditional practices and gender-based violence, are tackled, and that sexist hate speech, lgbti-phobic hate speech, misogyny and online hate speech, including harassment and stalking, are condemned. i would like to conclude by recalling that both the transposition of the istanbul convention among the member states and the final document of the work-life balance directive are fundamental to the establishment of a fair, inclusive and modern society. the european union has an obligation to be at the forefront of this process.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution mainly because the benefits to human health of the active principles found in the cannabis plant are today undeniable. historically in europe, this plant was banned due to the social consequences of its recreational abuse, but recently we realised that we were missing out on many treatment opportunities. as patients crave access to these treatments, pharmaceutical companies and cannabis producers are now racing to claim a share of a market that is deemed to be worth eur 55 billion by 2028. everyone’s concern is that legislators and competent authorities in member states cannot keep pace in terms of regulation, leaving medical cannabis to slow-crawl its way into the market. we need to let research and development take its course, and pharmaceutical regulation do its part. i see no reason for these products not to be treated like any other medicine. the active principles from cannabis should be dealt with like all other active principles – and we can treat cannabis as we do other regulated plant-based medicines. the system for medicines already works well, and we have fought hard to make it fair across europe. to conclude, we should leave aside our prejudices about the plant and believe that this is a new situation. there is no reason for these medicines not to follow the same evolution in science that is reflected in the fact that we now take aspirin whereas we used to chew on willow bark.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the opportunity to join you today and to discuss this very important topic: the recent hostile activities that iran has reportedly conducted on the territory of several member states. let me start with the basic yet fundamental premise. the european union has consistently voiced, and will continue to voice, our strong unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations committed by whomsoever, wherever and for whatever purposes. it is then clear that in order to preserve our own european security, we cannot accept iranian or any other country’s hostile activities on european soil, no matter the justification. there is complete solidarity between the european union and all eu member states on this issue, and this solidarity will continue. whenever there have been reports of such activities, we have been in prompt contact with the authorities of the member state concerned to offer our full support and solidarity. for example, in the case of denmark at the end of last october, hr / vp mogherini discussed the situation with the danish foreign minister on the very same day that the case was made public. you will also be aware that the foreign affairs council had two significant discussions on iran in the final months of 2018. at the foreign affairs council in november, the danish foreign minister anders samuelsen provided an update and member states underlined their solidarity and willingness to agree on measures to address this and other recent incidents on european territory. one month later in december, the foreign affairs council again discussed iran. ministers agreed on the principle of adoption conclusions, which would reaffirm the commitment to the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), while making clear that it would not prevent the eu from raising concerns about iranian activities. this solidarity at the council led to the addition of two iranian individuals and the directorate for internal security of the iranian ministry for intelligence and security to the eu counter-terrorism list. the council adopted the list on 9 january this year. persons, groups and entities on this list are subject to the freezing of their funds and other financial assets, and european union operators are prohibited from making funds and economic resources available to them. our discussions on how we should collectively respond to threats to our security, whatever their provenance, did not end on that day, as the conclusions adopted on 4 february repeated that the european union will continue to demonstrate unity and solidarity in this area. i would like to close these introductory remarks with three points. first, far from responding to policies of iran with which we disagree, we have a number of restrictive measures in place against iranian individuals and entities for reasons including their violation of human rights, support for terrorism and support for the assad regime. secondly, we should resist the temptation of viewing any country as solely a perpetrator of terrorism. iran too has been a victim of terror attacks and consistency demands that we have also condemned, as in the case of the attacks in ahvaz in september last year, which claimed the lives of at least 25 individuals. finally, our vigorous response to these actions, while necessary, should not affect the eu’s continuing commitment to the full and effective implementation of the jcpoa whose preservation is in the security interests of the eu and the international community. thank you for your attention and i look forward to our discussion.
mr president, commissioner, i listened carefully to your speech. i have to say, i'm more skeptical of the iranian regime than you are. for me, it is a totalitarian regime that, by its actions against eu citizens on eu territory, confirms that it cannot be a trusted partner of the eu. the murders of eu citizens that have taken place here, and for which the iranian regime is very likely to be responsible, are something that is totally unacceptable and we cannot turn a blind eye to it just because there are certain commitments, agreements, including the nuclear weapons agreement. i am much more sceptical in this respect than mrs mogherini and some members of the european commission. which is important, and i welcome that you have adopted certain sanctions against certain members of the iranian regime's intelligence services. it is necessary that the fight against the murder of eu citizens does not involve individual member states against iran, but that the eu as a whole responds to such acts of hostility on eu territory. this is extremely important, i think, this is not a problem of individual member states where these violent crimes either occurred or were suspected of being prepared by members of the iranian intelligence services. and in the future, please let us take the same strong action against the perpetrators, but also against the entire regime.
mr president, this week iran noisily celebrated the 40th anniversary of the islamic revolution. during these last 40 years, international terrorism has become a prominent feature of iran’s foreign policy and has produced a bloody history of terror attacks. iran’s theocrats not only use shia jihadists in iraq and syria, and support terrorist organisations like hezbollah or rebel movements in yemen, but also spread their radical ideology via their support for religious studies centres and ngos in the balkans and, violently, via terrorist plots on european soil to assassinate regime opponents. regardless of my support for the negotiations around the iran nuclear deal and the establishment of mechanisms like the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex) special-purpose vehicle, unfortunately i believe that those negotiations and mechanisms do not alter in any way iran’s unacceptable behaviour: its support for terrorism, its willingness to expand its ballistic missile programme and its horrific record of violating human rights. the recent iranian-backed campaign of assassinations and terror plots on european soil poses a serious threat to our security and must incur targeted consequences diplomatically and economically.
member of the commission. – mr president, in may of last year the commission adopted a communication on a europe that protects clean air for all. in this communication, we outlined the eu clean air policy approach, provided examples of measures to reduce air pollution in the transport, power and heat energy industry, and also in the agricultural sectors. we also point to initiatives taken to step-up cooperation with member states, with regions, and also with cities. against this background let me reply to your five questions. first on the first question, the commission has been taking decisive action where it sees persistent exceedances above air quality limit values. it is currently pursuing 30 infringement procedures against 20 member states for exceedances of particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide or sulphur dioxide limit values. in two cases, the court of justice has already ruled against the member states. the commission will continue to actively manage the infringement process as fast as possible, including referrals to the court where and when warranted. with regards to your second question, as you know, the commission is carrying out a fitness check of the ambient air quality directives. we initiated this in 2017 and will complete it in the second half of this year. its findings will be used to inform further reflections on whether these directives continue to provide the appropriate legislative framework to ensure protection from adverse impacts on, and risks to, human health and the environment. however, as the analysis is not yet over, it would be premature to anticipate now the conclusions the commission might draw. referring to question three, european union funding under various financial streams has been made available and successfully used by member states to address the air quality challenge. in the current programing period – that is 2014 to 2020 – eur 1.8 billion have been directly allocated to support air quality measures under the european structural and investment fund. in addition, further indirect contributions beneficial to clean air come from investments in the low-carbon economy and environmental protection and resource efficiency, or in the transport network infrastructure. more specifically, to support regions and cities, in the urban agenda for the eu there have been innovative actions to further facilitate addressing air pollution in urban areas where transport is one of the main sources of air pollution. looking ahead for the period post-2020, the commission has proposed under the cohesion policy a particular emphasis on a green low carbon europe including a specific result indicator on population benefiting from measures for air quality. on question number four, the agricultural sector is an important source of ammonia emissions, which in turn are a key precursor to particulate matter. measures to mitigate these emissions include agronomic measures, livestock measures, or energy production measures. they are already available, technically and economical viable, and should be applied more widely. according to the commission's proposal for a new common agricultural policy after 2020, one of the impact indicators to assess the performance of this policy explicitly refers to the ammonia emissions from agriculture. to be more specific, a result indicator will measure the share of agricultural land under commitments to reduce ammonia emissions. on the fifth question, eu legislation sets objectives for ambient air quality, taking into account the relevant scientific information provided via the world health organisation, which is the world’s leading authority on health matters. their air quality guidelines establish the most authoritative, scientific basis to date. the world health organisation keeps the scientific basis under regular review, including ultra-fine particles and black carbon. in addition, it is currently working towards an update of these air quality guidelines. the commission is following this work very closely.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent replies. according to the european academy of allergy and clinical immunology, more than 100 million europeans suffer from allergic rhinitis and 70 million from asthma. also, the european respiratory society has warned that even short-term increases in air pollution have been associated with respiratory symptoms and temporary decreases in lung function. in projections by the oecd, air pollution will be the biggest environmental cause of premature deaths by 2050. millions of europeans live in areas where simply breathing the air around them is damaging to their health, and these effects should not be underestimated. air pollution can reduced lifespans and cause serious heart and lung disease. the pollutants of most concern for human health across europe are airborne particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and ground-level ozone. these pollutants increase the death rate, especially in sensitive population groups such as the elderly and those suffering from respiratory diseases. despite these health impacts, current eu legislation permits levels of damaging pollutants higher than those recommended by the world health organisation. what still needs to be done? member states should reinforce their efforts to tackle sources of pollution from all sectors. states also need to improve cooperation on cross—border pollution, make air quality an integral part of their policies, and ensure that the correct level of governance – national, regional or municipal – is equipped to tackle sources of pollution. i recently hosted an exhibition in parliament celebrating lisbon as 2020 european green capital, a designation for which one of the 12 criteria evaluated was air quality. in the past 10 years, lisbon has shown a significant decrease in emissions from most pollutants, resulting in a significant improvement in air quality. by limiting polluting vehicles in the city, without reducing mobility, and by planning green corridors that act as a ventilation system, lisbon was able to achieve its aim on air quality. commissioner, we need more examples like lisbon and we need national strategies for air quality.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i would agree on the sensitive and at the same time important issue of the inclusion of dual eu/third-country nationals. for the commission it is vital to include in the ecris—tcn system all third-country nationals, including those who are also eu nationals, otherwise we would leave an important loophole and undermine the objective of the proposal. what we have to avoid is that criminals play off different nationalities to hide possible previous convictions. we recognise that this establishes a different approach between eu citizens who only have an eu nationality and those also holding the nationality of a third country. however, we consider this is justified by the fact that the latter can use either of these nationalities when confronted with a prosecution, or in other cases where their previous criminal record might hamper them. for example, if the persons concerned had already been convicted for a sexual offence under their tcn nationality, they might use only their eu nationality when applying for a position involving working with children in another member state. excluding persons with eu/third-country nationality would mean that the identity data of certain persons with a criminal record, who hold the nationality of a third country, would not be stored in the ecris—tcn system. i would like to thank you for your interventions. i would like to encourage you to vote in favour of the compromise texts of both proposals. the new system for the exchange of criminal records is an important contribution to the security union and to the european justice area.
in writing. when necessary and this is an area where one should not go beyond what is necessary , the transmission of information on the criminal records of citizens should be carried out on a bilateral cooperation basis, to be established between the states involved. this european system goes further, entering a recognizably sensitive area, because it is associated with individual rights, freedoms and guarantees, and is included in the constitutional acquis of some member states. going beyond what is necessary, this system creates problems. it emphasises the attempt to move towards the federalisation of justice. by placing data on citizens of the member states in the hands of supranational institutions which are not exactly benchmarks for the safeguarding of individual rights and freedoms. no clear guarantees as to the protection of this data. all this in the context of a security drift, driven by a bold and dubious definition of terrorism, and immigration policies aimed at punishing secondary movements and facilitating expulsion. another example of how the views and conceptions of the far right are making their way through the hands of the right and social democracy.
madam president, more and more of our lives are being lived and shared online. that's why our personal data is now such a valuable commodity that companies and governments want to collect, exploit or access it. that's also why there are so many criminals who want to steal them. recent scandals like facebook and cambridge analytica are the most real demonstration of this. we need the means to deal with these threats, but we also need to ensure that respect for human rights is at the heart of the work of organisations that aim to combat cybercrime. so we cannot ignore the essential role that people have to play in this struggle. we must not ignore the need for citizens to be empowered to make more informed decisions about their data, how to manage it and how to keep it safe. we need bodies like enisa, but we also need all the authorities and people to be aware of their role in this fight and never, never, cross the line of human rights, however desirable the profits.
madam president, cybersecurity is today, as all the facts show, one of the fundamental keys to ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy, protecting its citizens from the threats posed by new technologies used illegally and developing free democratic processes of choice and representation. it therefore makes sense to strengthen enisa's capacity and potential by increasing the resilience of the european space against cyber-attacks and by creating enhanced prevention, detection and response competences and capabilities. but it is also essential to implement a system of certification of products and systems. to achieve this requires cooperation and coordination. national knowledge and development centres will receive a strong boost from horizon europe and digital europe. the certification network should build on these competences and operate in an articulation model capable of ensuring, in a distributed and aggregated manner, the integrity and resilience of procedures and networks and the quality of information. it is not an easy challenge, but it is a priority we must meet to ensure the european union's strategic autonomy in the new digital society.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleague, professor paolo de castro, on the outcome of the negotiations, which is the result of his clear commitment to the defence of farmers. this directive is an important step in strengthening the bargaining position of farmers and increasing their protection against abusive commercial practices. it will introduce a common minimum level of protection throughout the european union in a harmonised way, in addition to the provisions already adopted in some countries, such as portugal. this will certainly contribute to fairer prices for producers. we must also emphasize here, among other things, the decisive role played by the european parliament in improving the commission's initial proposal, contributing in particular to a significant increase in the number of practices covered and the inclusion of buyers outside the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, the end of the mandate is approaching and now more than ever our fellow citizens are looking to us for a sort of balance sheet to show them the importance for their lives of what we have done here. the directive on combating unfair trading practices in the agri-food supply chain is a good example of how we stand up for our farmers and, by extension, for all europeans. despite years of delay, we have had the will and support of all parties in this mandate and we have reached consensus quite quickly on a directive which will allow greater stability and income security for our farmers and will punish all those who abuse their dominant position over the other links in the food chain. it is therefore a great day for european agriculture, which will see unfair commercial practices enshrined in law, such as unilateral contract changes, the attempt to blame farmers for the economic losses of distribution, the payment of perishable products in a period of more than 30 days, the imposition of discount schemes or penalties without prior agreement, among many others. the possibility for a producer organisation to make a complaint on behalf of one of its members is also a great step towards putting an end to expressions of apprehension, especially in small markets or where they accepted the conditions that they would be supplied or would no longer be supplied by that entity. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that i am convinced that this european parliament has left the agricultural sector a little more protected than it found it. it is a very happy day for european agriculture.
mr president, portuguese farmers are now left with less than 20% of the price consumers pay for their products. we all know the predatory role of the retail sector in agriculture. we are all familiar with the practices of crushing the prices paid to the producer. it is intolerable and regrettable that the european union has done nothing in these five years. it is now coming out with this directive on the eve of elections and, needless to say, better late than never. there are certainly positive aspects to this proposal, but it does not touch on the fundamental issue. their mechanisms are insufficient to guarantee this very simple thing: that prices cover production costs and guarantee a decent standard of living for our farmers. this proposal is certainly a step forward, but it falls far short of what is needed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of the majority in this parliament who do not accept a europe limited to the common market. we want a europe of the people, a europe of the citizens. european citizenship is the cornerstone of the european project. one of the most important innovations of the lisbon treaty was undoubtedly the european citizenship initiative. we want to strengthen european democracy, encourage citizen participation and bring elected representatives and voters closer together. since then, more than nine million europeans from all member states have taken part, including more than 100 000 portuguese. let's get this straight. this instrument is not enough. we need much more to strengthen the europe of the citizens, to combat apathy and abstention and to prevent the emergence of worrying populist tendencies. but we can and must improve this european citizenship initiative by simplifying it, providing more resources and emphasizing the european commission's duty to act. the increased concern for the transparency of funding and support for the organisers is also reflected in the proposals we are going to approve. i also support the call for member states to reduce the age of consent from 18 to 16. we want, mr president, that more citizens can take part and that we can all benefit from your interest and initiative, because more democracy certainly means a better europe.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. there are virtually no women in the financial, management and executive bodies of the european union. there are two of 25 in the executive board of the european central bank. the council says it has nothing to do with it, when it is the governments they appoint. the commission says it has nothing to do with it, when it is the european commission which presents the final list. and in the final lists there are rarely women, they disappear, the governments of this european union do not have women, as the commissioner said, who are competent, who have merit, who have qualifications, who have sufficient knowledge of banking areas. this is not just an insult to women. it's an insult to everyone. it is an insult to the european union and a disgrace. i sincerely hope that as long as lists and appointments are being made up of men only, this house, which claims to defend gender equality, will not allow them to pass because they are an attack on democracy, equality and justice in the european union.
mr president, this raises two problems: firstly, gender equality, which is clearly not respected in the supervisory agencies or in the european central bank. but it also raises another, not minor, question, namely that of democratic scrutiny of these institutions. the agencies, and in particular the ecb, were to be politically neutral institutions with a technical function when they were created. but the truth is that they have been accumulating powers in the framework of oversight, in the framework of assistance programmes, and this has never been accompanied by the necessary democratic scrutiny. and let us be serious, the involvement of this parliament in the choice of the top leaders of these institutions is nothing but a facade, a veritable democratic puppet. the lists of candidates that were supposed to be provided to us either have only one name or have no female presence and, in the only situation where we had access to a list with several candidates, the final choice did not even respect the decision that was taken here by this parliament. the residual female presence in the institutions is incomprehensible, it is intolerable, but it also reflects the opaque and anti-democratic nature of these institutions which are today dominated by high finance and where there is no sincere will to any scrutiny.
mr president, first of all i want to say that i regret mr sosnierz's words. in this house, they cannot be allowed. commissioner, as rapporteur for gender mainstreaming in the european parliament, i can only regret that the appointment of three men to senior posts in european institutions, such as the european central bank, has been awarded to three men. in a europe where the values we stand for are equality and human rights, it is hard to understand how, when it comes time to put these same values into practice, we choose to ignore and perpetuate a culture that is led by us, the men, in the majority. the argument that these men were the most qualified no longer holds. what's the point of flagging gender equality if, in the end, the people most qualified for these cases always end up being men? so i ask: are there not women who are qualified enough to take on these positions? when will this social stigma and the focus on women in senior management positions end? the union must lead this challenge and be at the forefront of gender equality. i urge not only my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy to rethink their proposals but also the member states themselves to encourage more women to stand.
mr president, mr prime minister, thank you very much for your presentation. i should first of all say that we are very concerned about the rule of law and corruption in slovakia. and what i would like to see, for the words he left here today, particularly on the murder of jan kuciak and his companion and the investigation that is associated with it, was slovakia, faced with developments such as those we see today in romania, or developments such as we see in malta, being able, if not through its prime minister, at least through its party, to make a clear denunciation of this situation. because slovakia can make a lot of progress in terms of prosperity, as i said, and in terms of integration into the european union, but it will not be a country with european values if these serious suspicions persist that the rule of law does not work and does not really work in slovakia and does not work, in particular, because of the action of the socialist party and the european socialist party which is unable to denounce this type of crime and activities at european level.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report which created the european solidarity corps programme because, in a time of rising nationalism and xenophobia on our continent, all initiatives which strengthen active citizenship and the concept of solidarity must be supported. however, since this programme is, from its inception, more than a mere volunteering programme and also covers the support of mobility and volunteering projects in a professional context, through professional traineeships and contracts with structures developing actions in the social field, it is important to ensure that in its practical implementation, abuses of abuses are avoided and that the european solidarity corps is not used by non-governmental organisations, public bodies and public undertakings to obtain cheap labour. volunteering, which can obviously improve the employment prospects of young people, should not be seen as a substitute for decent paid employment as a way of perpetuating the precariousness of employment links or as a substitute for policies to combat the scourge of youth unemployment in europe.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report which modernises the european citizens' initiative because i believe that this instrument of participation and bringing citizens closer together must be given more credibility. this means that this instrument must bring citizens together and not divide them further. it must provide more opportunities for participation through a europe with its differences, allowing the use of platforms for collecting signatures, both from the european commission and independent ones, provided they are recognised by the competent authorities to prevent possible fraud. the debate on these initiatives must be inclusive and give priority to dialogue between all the actors of civil society, because only in this way can consensus be reached. it is also necessary to allow time for proposals to take shape and to be able to effectively reach a coherent legislative process. this instrument must reflect the real will of citizens throughout the union, so that it is not held captive by the interests of a few, of a single member state or of a financial interest. for all this to happen, resources and tools must be allocated to empower citizens so that they can make serious use of this democratic instrument of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in 2013, this parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority the report corruption in the public and private sectors, impact on human rights in third countries for which i was rapporteur, which says in paragraph 3: takes the view that the eu should follow the example of the united states of america in adopting the 2012 sergei magnitsky rule of law accountability act and adopt similar legislation at eu level as a symbolic and operational framework linking corruption and human rights violations; calls on the council to establish a common eu-wide list of officials implicated in the death of sergei magnitsky and the subsequent cover-up of the case and urges the commission to develop an action plan to impose similar targeted sanctions against third-country agents involved in serious human rights violations and judicial manipulations against whistleblowers, journalists investigating corruption cases and human rights activists; that is precisely what, six years later, is reinforced by the resolution which the european parliament will be voting on tomorrow. the mechanism we specify has the magnitsky name with it, because it originates in this murder perpetrated in putin's russia, but it has universal application wherever similar crimes occur. we have listed the basic criteria, requiring action and consistency from member states in the enforcement of sanctions, a crucial requirement at a time when many of our governments seem to be held hostage by oligarchic, corrupt and human rights-violating governments from moscow to beijing and from riyadh to washington in the trump era. by the way, if those responsible for the murders of daphne caruana galizia and jan kuciak and her partner are not brought to trial, we should consider applying similar sanctions to those responsible for the cover-up in those countries of the european union.
mr president, the european union is today a great reference, if not the world's leading reference, in the protection of human rights. nowhere else in the world do we find such a degree of concern, vigilance and respect in the field of these rights. citizens and civil society organisations from all corners of the world turn to the european union when their human rights are at stake because they know they will be heard and defended wherever possible. but this moral and political authority is only truly credible if it is accompanied by instruments which do not leave unpunished those who disregard human rights and who corrupt the rule of law. political or institutional condemnation is essential but not sufficient. effective deterrence must go beyond diplomatic pressure and in many cases involve the application of sanctions. that is why the strengthening of the european union's sanctions regime, making it more consistent and more targeted, is a very important step towards consolidating the european union as the outpost of the cause of human rights in the world.
mr president, commissioner, there can be no impunity for those who persecute peoples, for those who exterminate in the name of religion, for traffickers in human beings and arms, for sex traffickers or for murderers of journalists. no matter how much money they have, no matter how much protection certain undemocratic regimes have, the european union can never provide a safe haven for human rights violators. we are still a hope in the world. we need to show determination and establish a law at union level that does not stand with those who do not respect human dignity. they're enforcing a visa ban, freezing the assets of the offenders and banning them from our home. it is time to join the countries that have already done so. europe urgently needs a concrete proposal to punish these violators. we need to do so if we do not want our speeches to be full of content but empty of action. until then, the weapons we buy and the deals we make will always be stained with the blood of those who fight for freedom.
in writing. the high representative has repeatedly called for the creation of an eu-wide mechanism for the imposition of targeted sanctions against persons involved in serious human rights violations. indeed, over the past two decades, eu sanctions have become an integral part of the eu's external relations instruments and have been imposed to support objectives of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the existence of a system of its own at eu level would make the application of sanctions more effective, not limiting its application to persons from certain countries or involved in certain crimes, but covering all perpetrators of serious human rights violations who enjoy impunity, state and non-state actors such as terrorists and terrorist groups. this effectiveness in imposing sanctions would be a valuable instrument in strengthening the eu's role as a global human rights actor.
mr president, commissioner, no one doubts the important role that turkey has played, and is playing, in responding to the migration crisis during the syrian war. however, this does not mean that europe is held hostage to an autocracy which crushes all those who think differently. the political purge is well known. we have 150,000 arrests, 4,000 judges fired, over 160 social media platforms shut down and over 114,000 websites blocked. but on the other hand, it's also these people who count on us. the situation is bad indeed, very bad indeed, and that is why this union must be a bridge of dialogue through diplomacy. there are objective criteria for turkey's accession to the european union. if turkey meets these criteria, it will be admitted, if not, it will not be admitted. it is therefore our responsibility to support the building of effective mechanisms to promote and protect human rights and democracy in third countries, and in this regard our support for civil society is essential.
mr president, the venezuelan people have been without electricity for five days, and access to water for many people also depends on it. the food is scarce, it's rotting, shops, schools, transportation, services are down, without generators, children die, old people, sick people in hospitals, the news is out. venezuela is in the abyss. maduro has to be quickly run by the venezuelan people. nothing will be resolved without free and genuine elections within months. the armed forces must defend the people, the state, not the rotten clique, by corruption, by drug trafficking of maduro. the international community must make it clear that maduro and his minions will face international justice, they will not escape. the russian and cuban regimes must understand, on behalf of the european union, that they will pay dearly for delaying the removal of the gangue that has inhumanely led venezuela into this abyss. it's just a matter of time, because it's just a matter of time. it is not sustainable to keep maduro and to keep the terrible suffering imposed on the venezuelan people. the european union must be clear on this.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is an emergency and an emergency. with the power failure, the situation of poverty and hunger became clearer, but now even the urgency for water, the virtual closure of hospitals, clinical aid, health aid to people whose lives are at risk. today the problem of venezuela is no longer just a problem of dictatorship and democracy, it is a life and death problem, it is a humanitarian emergency problem. i should say that many times in this parliament there have been many members who have announced that this was going to happen, and that should also be credited to them, because we, the european union and the international community, have taken a long time to recognize that maduro is a dictator, and not just a dictator, he is a despot and, in a certain sense, a true murderer of his people. we have to remove maduro. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, my struggle for freedom and democracy in venezuela is not new, as is the case with some of my colleagues who are new to this cause. and by that, i mean that in a terminal state of a country like venezuela, a blackout of four days in a row has tremendous consequences. the supermarkets, many of them owned by portuguese, are looted and the damage is not greater because there is little left to sell and premature babies die in hospitals and many patients whose vital functions depended on the equipment now turned off. to claim, like maduro, that the precarious electrical infrastructure is the result of international computer sabotage and american economic sanctions is a fallacy and is above all an insult to the millions who leave venezuela desperate and hungry. the collapse of the electricity system is the result of years of corruption and incompetence of a dictatorial regime that has long taken advantage of these blackouts to divert offshore many millions of oil dollars that the country receives. these kleptocrats of the regime and those responsible for crimes against humanity in venezuela must continue to be subject to eu sanctions, which now need to be extended to their families.
mr president, the credibility of the venezuelan debate in this parliament has been eroded, if it ever was. they are lying blatantly and shamelessly, they are looking at the reasons for this debate, the power blackout in the country trying to put the legitimate government of venezuela in charge of what we know was a terrorist sabotage of the venezuelan electrical system. you don't want dialogue or peace, but listen to me carefully, your attempts, your support for the most reactionary sectors of the venezuelan opposition, your following the trump administration, all have failed, the blackout has failed, the charade of humanitarian aid burned by the opposition at the border has failed, your self-proclaimed puppet has failed. you are trampling on international law, the principles of non-interference and respect for sovereignty enshrined in the united nations charter. they seek to burn the country, compromising the interests of communities, such as the portuguese, who live and work there. the venezuelan people mobilized in the streets remain firm and resistant, stating that they will not give up their independence and bolivarian revolution and shouting "take your hands off venezuela".
in writing. just over half a year ago, i led a european parliament delegation to the border between brazil and venezuela. although i had a deep knowledge of the dramatic situation in that country, which led to the exodus of millions of venezuelans, and continues to lead to this, what i saw there left me deeply disturbed and indignant. since then, almost everything has gotten worse: economic conditions, the humanitarian crisis, political repression. only one thing has improved in venezuela in recent times: with juan guaidó, hope has been restored. what has happened in the last few days, with the death of countless people due to a blackout of the sole responsibility of the sinister regime that the tyrant maduro continues to lead, goes beyond anything that is morally acceptable. guaidó and all that he stands for today needs active solidarity, which goes far beyond the hollow words of those who, deep down, cannot truly break with the illusion that there is something leftist and progressive in the kleptocratic dictatorship that does not want to give up power in caracas and that refuses to give voice to the venezuelan people.
in writing. the credibility of the venezuelan debates in this parliament has faded, if it ever had any. they lie blatantly and shamelessly. look at the reasons for this debate. the blackout in the country, seeking to hold the legitimate government of venezuela responsible for what we know was a terrorist sabotage of the venezuelan electrical system. they want neither dialogue nor peace. but listen to me! your attempts, your support for the most reactionary sectors of the venezuelan opposition, your allegiance to the trump administration, all failed. the blackout failed, the charade of humanitarian aid burned by the opposition at the border failed, your self-proclaimed puppet failed. you are trampling on international law, the principles of non-interference and respect for sovereignty enshrined in the united nations charter. they seek to burn the country by compromising the interests of communities such as the portuguese, who live and work there. the venezuelan people mobilized in the streets remain firm and resistant, stating that they will not give up their independence and bolivarian revolution and shouting: take your hands off venezuela!
mr president, i apologise, but i was having a meeting with mr barnier who, as you can imagine, at this moment is quite busy. so it was impossible for me to attend here on time. senhor presidente, gostaria de frisar essencialmente o seguinte: a questão da propaganda e, em particular, daquela que, na verdade, visa essencialmente enganar os públicos e que, como sabemos, é paralela, no fundo, de toda uma discussão que temos tido das fake news, é hoje, sabemos, extremamente dominada por terceiros países. e penso que aqui nós temos que ter uma ação muito determinada no sentido de bloquear toda a possibilidade de interesses estratégicos muitas vezes malignos, de terceiros países e de alguns bem conhecidos, como o caso da rússia, poderem influenciar as nossas campanhas eleitorais, os nossos debates, os nossos referendos. e, por isso, saúdo bastante esta atitude da comissão no sentido de combater este tipo de atuação.
mr president, for the past 17 years, the allies, in the framework of isaf and eupol and other european union missions, have wanted to give a voice to those oppressed by the taliban regime, especially women and ethnic minorities. history has taught a bloody lesson in afghanistan, that there is no peace without inclusion and with power handed to the warlords. now the deal that is being negotiated between the trump administration and the taliban for a horse-drawn troop withdrawal from afghanistan is very worrying, it does not include the voices of afghan women, youth, civil society or even the elected government. the hard-won parks of inclusion are under threat, and we can once again see the majority of the afghan population, women and children, brutally oppressed. negotiating like this is not negotiating, it is treason, as seen by the increasing attacks by the taliban on civilians and military in afghanistan. the european union does not need to simply adjust this partnership and cooperation agreement, which may not be worth the paper on which it is written, but we must make ourselves heard politically and avoid a civilizational setback which will make this partnership and cooperation agreement and all the financial, humanitarian efforts and the sacrifice of lives of so many afghan civilians and military personnel and allies, including europeans, in that country, worthless.
mr president, in the states of andorra, monaco and san marino, some 150 000 europeans live in close contact with neighbouring states which are members of the european union and whose history is inseparable from the history of those territories. it is therefore highly desirable to renew the political and institutional framework which frames these countries' relations with the european union and its member states in the direction of closer relations. the small size of andorra, monaco and san marino makes them more vulnerable in the context of globalisation and poses the challenge of preserving their cultural specificities and ensuring that they remain viable as social and economic realities. this association agreement must take account of this challenge by strengthening the access of these countries to the european internal market. of course, this also requires an effort by these states to bring the financial and banking regulations and legal certainty and the exchange of information closer to those of the european union. fortunately, the progress made in adopting the acquis communautaire is already remarkable. that is why this association agreement must be supported and supported by this parliament, as does the proposal in this report to set up a delegation for interparliamentary dialogue with these three states.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague and friend mr santiago fisas on his efforts on this matter and i would like to say that the european union and the principality of andorra, the principality of monaco and the republic of san marino share values, history, interests and challenges. they use the euro as their national currency, speak the official languages of the union, are as european geographically as the six founding member states and have long-standing agreements with the european union, pioneering the trade and customs agreement signed with the then european community in 1990 which is still in force. with the european elections approaching and with the progress in regulatory convergence with the union over the past four years, particularly in the areas of financial regulation, tax governance and the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, it is urgent to step up the negotiations so that, involving governments, economic operators and civil society, we can conclude the negotiations within the next two years at the latest. i believe that in the face of the sino-american competition for world hegemony, it is vital to step up the process of continental integration centred on the european union in order to increase europe's global competitiveness in economic, educational and environmental terms.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the european commission has drawn up the list of third countries with strategic failures in combating money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion, on the basis of an autonomous and independent assessment, also taking into account the fatf assessment, as insisted by parliament and as required by the 5th anti-money laundering and terrorist financing directive and other related provisions, such as the need to effectively combat offshore financial and tax crime within and outside the european union. the commission has complied, parliament has applauded, the council has destroyed. once again, efforts to promote transparency, tax justice and to combat organised crime, including terrorism, are being blocked by the governments of the member states against collective security. let the governments of the european union not now claim that brussels is to blame. the council, each and every one of the 28 member states' governments, which allow themselves to be captured by perverse interests, succumbing to pressure from the saudi regime, which is a squabble, and from its protector, the trump administration, is the one who is hampering solutions, who is thus inciting populism, who is failing the citizens, including in the fight against terrorism. my tribute, commissioner jourová, to your determination and your persistence. you have our full support.
mr president, the security of the citizens and the financial system of the european union must be protected against the illegal instruments that enable the financing of terrorism and money laundering. the union has the capacity to draw up a list of third countries on the basis of the risk identified through suspicious capital flows between shell companies and opaque structures used to conceal the true beneficiaries of a transaction, including for the purposes of tax evasion. based on intelligence provided by europol and the financial action task force, we were able to tighten the assessment mesh and increase the list of suspect countries. it must be understood that with this list we are not applying any economic sanctions or making any diplomatic boycott. it's the opposite. it is therefore not understandable that the council should refuse to accept the list of countries at risk proposed by the commission. the union must maintain its commitment to intervene in countries with strategic deficiencies to prevent dirty money from being used to finance corruption, organised crime and terrorism. of course, no country is happy to be on this blacklist and tries, by all means, including through bilateral talks, to put together arguments to justify its exclusion. my dear colleagues, we have agreed: we know how insidious it can be for our union to have corruption, organised crime and terrorism penetrate the european territory. there are matters on which europe must close ranks and act with one voice, and in this case it is the purest common sense that prevention is better than cure.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help recalling that schengen and freedom of movement are the successes of european integration which europeans value most. but this freedom of movement requires measures to ensure the security of our common borders and cooperation between police forces within our territory. it also requires a common visa policy, that is, a european approach to those who cross our borders legally, whether to visit, study or work. the visa information system, the vis, is the most visible example of this policy. currently this system is limited to tourist entry, so-called short-stay visas. in 2017 alone, some 16 million visas were issued. of course, it is not just tourists who enter schengen. in 2017, one million workers entered the european union, more than 800,000 people came to join their families and more than half a million came to study. these people, although also benefiting from free movement, are not registered in any european database. more worryingly, each member state decides which security controls it is subject to. there is also a final category of people, the big investors, the so-called gold visas, which are already issued by 20 member states. these are also currently outside the vis and are not subject to any security controls against other union information systems such as the schengen information system. with this reform of the vis we intend to change that. in addition, this reform will only make sense if long-term visas and residence permits, including gold visas, are registered in the vis. that is why i am surprised and concerned to see that the s&d group has changed its mind in the last month. when we voted on this report in the committee, they supported the measure, now they seem to want to follow the greens and the gue. ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: the current distinction between short-term visas and long-term documents makes no sense. anyone applying for a visa to enter the european union must be subject to the same security checks throughout europe. tourists who visit us and who normally stay on our territory for a period of well under 90 days are subject to european security checks. but people who decide to settle more permanently in our territory or acquire residence through investments, i am talking about the gold visas, are not subject to even remotely similar controls. that is why, with this reform, we are first of all seeking to ensure that all visas, whatever their duration, are automatically preceded by adequate security checks, in full respect of fundamental rights, the principles of necessity and proportionality, but ensuring that a russian investor who is the subject of a european arrest warrant does not end up with a gold visa in romania. these checks shall be carried out systematically and thoroughly before the issuing of visas. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. it is precisely for security reasons that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this parliament has taken the view that fingerprints should be taken from the age of six. only then can we better protect our children, whether it's against identity fraud, kidnapping or trafficking. every year 15,000 people are trafficked in europe, of whom at least 3,000 are children. we have a duty to fight this scourge and through this reform we are doing so. mr president, with this strengthened vis we will make it easier to issue visas, prevent so-called visa shopping, visa fraud and illegal immigration, we will increase scrutiny of gold visas and better protect our children. finally, we have taken another important step towards an area of free movement with justice and security. we are one step closer to a true citizens' europe.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their contributions to the european people’s party (epp) and to myself. to keep the scope of the system is crucial. without it, this reform loses much of its value. we will not be serving european citizens well if we take that out. as citizens’ representatives, we have the obligation to defend their best interests and we are accountable before them for the votes that we cast in this house. it is true and evident that every opinion is legitimate, but rest assured, those who think that golden visas should not be subject to greater scrutiny and those who do not want to better protect children will have to explain their actions to their voters. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive spirit. i also want to extend my gratitude to your staff, the secretary of this house and the services of the european commission. you have all been essential to this outcome.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague, tanja fajon, for the excellent cooperation we have had and to underline that the management of our external borders remains and will continue to be a key issue for the european union, whether through its security component or visa policy. that is why, as we plan for the next decade, this fund cannot fail to reflect what we have learned from the more recent past. first, more money: in border management, member states remain the main actors, which is why, together with a reinforcement of the european border and coast guard agency, we have increased the available funds by five times; it's about ten billion dollars that will go to help secure our borders and at the same time promote legal entry into the territory. secondly, more flexibility: the recent past has shown that we need greater solidarity and greater speed in emergency situations; the union cannot be held hostage to momentary agreements to come to the aid of member states in difficulty. that is why we propose greater flexibility in the management of the fund in exceptional and urgent cases. third, greater justice: at our initiative, the so-called cohesion countries, such as portugal, will have 85% instead of 75% of funding; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the allocation of the funds for the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2000 to the member states. finally, i have often said in this house that there are no measures that can solve all the problems at once. what we must and can do is set priorities and work to improve. this is another decisive step towards protecting our borders. let's keep working.
the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union is a legally protected right. in the face of the results of the referendum held in that member state and the decision taken by its government to trigger the withdrawal procedures, the eu participated unitedly in a negotiating process based on safeguarding its values and protecting its citizens and businesses without harassing the citizens, institutions or civil society of the united kingdom. throughout the process, the peoples of europe have made clear their respect for the will of the british people, and at the same time, they have noted the desire to achieve a good deal or to maintain the territorial integrity of the union. the impact assessment of a possible no-deal exit has revealed that this scenario, if it occurs, will be highly pernicious for both parties. it is with this assumption that the european negotiators tried to the last moment to respond with openness and common sense to the requests of the british negotiators. the british parliament has chosen to reject the proposed agreement outright. the european union in general and parliament in particular must maintain an attitude of firmness in values and openness to solutions in order to defend the interests of all its citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this parliament on the guidelines for economic and budgetary policy is always an important part of the european semester, but it is even more so in the present context of enormous risks and uncertainties and of slowing economic growth. the final version of the report on which we are voting this afternoon is, fortunately, quite different from the initial version. many of the proposals put forward by my group have been accepted and i am therefore pleased to say that the final version of this report will have the support of the socialist group. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague tom vandenkendelaere, for the excellent cooperation we have had, which has enabled us to achieve this good result. the main message from this parliament is that european economic and budgetary policy needs to take a step forward to respond to the slowdown in the economy. we need concerted action for more sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to overcome the public and private investment gap and we need to ensure that member states with budgetary surpluses do more to grow the european economy by increasing wages and investment. responsibility for the management of public accounts is of course still necessary, but it must be compatible with investment in job creation, the fight against inequalities, the promotion of convergence, social inclusion, the energy transition, the fight against climate change and the objectives of sustainable development. it is this other view of investment policies and the idea of structural reforms that we need to make the european pillar of social rights effective. these are the fundamental elements of the economic and budgetary strategy that europe needs and that is why we shall vote in favour of this report.
the reform of the european stability mechanism is one of the most important pillars of the process of reforming economic and monetary union, a process necessary to address the enormous shortcomings in the architecture of the euro that the financial crisis has so dramatically revealed. with this report, parliament is making a very timely contribution to this process and i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague mr vladimir manka, for the excellent cooperation we have had in the last few months of work. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various groups for the excellent spirit of cooperation which has enabled us to reach what i believe to be a good result. in this report parliament advocates a two-step strategy: the european parliament reaffirms its clear view that the european stability mechanism should be fully integrated into european law so that it can become a genuine institution of the european union, governed in accordance with the community method and under the democratic control of the european parliament. if this is not possible immediately, we would like to see progress in the reform of the european stability mechanism through a revision of the intergovernmental treaty which created it. we did not think it appropriate, unlike the commission, to change the name of this institution to the european monetary fund because this could create confusion as to the competence to conduct monetary policy, which should continue to be the responsibility of the european central bank, but there are more important things we can and must do: firstly, to strengthen the democratic control of the mechanism by the european parliament. we therefore propose a protocol of cooperation between the two institutions to strengthen dialogue, to strengthen parliamentary scrutiny and we propose more, we propose that the director of the european stability mechanism be elected here in the european parliament. secondly, we advocate strengthening the role of the mechanism in promoting financial stability, in responding to economic and financial shocks and, therefore, also by reviewing its tasks and powers, without prejudice to the tasks of macroeconomic surveillance which should continue to be the responsibility of the european commission. finally, greater autonomy vis-à-vis the international monetary fund must be achieved and the mechanism should be given powers to make the single resolution fund operational and thus contribute to the completion of the banking union. we all know that the agenda for reforming the euro goes beyond this, it requires budgetary capacity, it requires many other things, but the reform of the european stability mechanism is also an important step and we hope that now the council will listen to the proposals and suggestions of the european parliament so that we can move in the right direction.
mr president, our debate confirms that this parliament wants the reform of the european stability mechanism to help make the single resolution fund operational in order to move towards the completion of the banking union as envisaged. but we want much more, we want a genuinely european stability mechanism, which is integrated into european law and subject to the control of this parliament. we want it to have more autonomy vis-à-vis the imf and therefore to turn the page on the troika. we want it to do more to support the states and to learn all the lessons of past assistance programmes, which also means not failing to make a serious assessment of the social impact of the measures to be included in future assistance programmes. these are the messages of the interim report which we are going to adopt, and we now hope that the council and the commission will listen to this parliament which represents the european citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. built in the context of the single market and the european aviation strategy, it is part of the eu's vision of promoting concentration in the sector, facilitating the creation of european aviation monopolies. a strategy which has contributed to the degradation or destruction of flag carriers, which has fuelled the privatisation processes of the sector, whether of airlines, infrastructure or services such as ground handling. this process has resulted in heavy losses for the countries, but also for workers, whose labour rights have been significantly reduced and precariousness in the sector has increased. the proposal is based on a dichotomy between eu and non-eu companies in the fight for the single market. it seeks to interfere with the organization of the sector in foreign countries by creating conditionalities on the authorization to operate of companies that have state subsidies. nothing new about that. they also interfere with national strategies for the aviation sector. the consequences of this competition between companies based in the eu and the single market are omitted in order to encourage the so-called low-cost companies that add up profits at the expense of the degradation of the quality of service, the assault on workers' rights, often in violation of labour laws. these are all the more reason to reject this proposal.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union and the european parliament insist on manipulating facts and adding to the trump administration's interventionist strategy of interference and destabilization throughout latin america. you know that the reform of social security proposed in nicaragua was intended to ensure its sustainability and at the same time to avoid the implementation of the neoliberal recommendations proposed by the imf. they know that the wave of protests, regimenting the legitimate expectations and desires of the population, was manipulated and orchestrated by sectors of the most reactionary right, deliberately provoking violent clashes and deaths. they know that this wave of violence was directed not only against the authorities and the government, but against members of the sandinista front who were attacked, kidnapped and murdered. they are aware of the government's initiative to launch a broad dialogue to put an end to the clashes promoted by the opposition and to find peaceful solutions. they know that the united states government is imposing sanctions and threatening nicaragua with an economic veto, preventing access to credits from international financial institutions in violation of the united nations charter and international law. it is because you know all this that you have nothing but lies to attack the peoples and progressive forces of latin america, such as in nicaragua, who insist on asserting the sovereignty and independence of their country, the right to self-determination, and to freely determine the course of the political, economic, social and cultural development of their countries. (the speaker refuses a question by ana gomes)
mr president, i lived the first 20 years of my life under a dictatorship. that's why i know one when i see one. and that's what i saw in nicaragua in 2011, and last january even worse: more repressive, more corrupt and more vindictive against the nicaraguan people. from the streets, patrolled by military, police and militia, to the prisons, rows of brave men and women, so many young people, treated as terrorists. they are nicaragua's moral reserve. we will not forget them: lucia pineda, miguel mora, irlanda jerez, olecia muñoz and many others, including the young belgian nicaraguan amaya coppens who, with her colleagues, has been on hunger strike since 27 february. so many in nicaragua will warn us that the ortegas don't want to negotiate, they want to buy time to see what happens in venezuela. this was proved, commissioner, by the recent attempt at negotiation, which achieved nothing, not even the release of hundreds of political prisoners, and the repression worsened. europe can make a difference. you have to make a difference in nicaragua. let's activate the democratic clause. and it is essential to impose specific sanctions on those most responsible for the murderous kleptocracy around the ortega murillos, including the freezing of assets and the ban on visas. the ortega murillos and their minions have to be brought before national or international justice so that they stop smelling of funeral home in the center of power in managua.
mr president, mr commissioner, i am portuguese, but i am speaking spanish here today because i am addressing in particular the many nicaraguan friends whom i met during the visit of the delegation from this parliament to managua last january, and all the dissidents who in their forced exile do not give up and fight every day for the return of democracy and freedom to their country. it is to all of you that i address myself, especially to the parents who have seen their children killed by police and paramilitaries during the protests, to all the students whose careers and futures are interrupted as a punishment for their peaceful participation in these demonstrations, and to those brave men and women who, unlawfully detained for exercising their freedom of expression, face with immense courage harsh prison sentences, many of them confined in inhuman and degrading cells that are not even worthy of pigs. this is the case of the journalists miguel mora and lucía pineda ubau, the latter nominated yesterday for the courage in journalism awards, whom i greet from here. this was the scenario we were able to witness in the territory. and we were also able to confirm that the alleged coup d'état orchestrated by the united states is nothing more than pure propaganda, used by the ortega-murillo regime to justify the repression and undermining of the political rights of its fellow citizens. since the repression has intensified further since our visit, mr ortega has to show that he is not using attempts at national dialogue as a ploy to buy time and avoid sanctions from the european union. and that can only be demonstrated by ending repression, quashing the trials of all those who are imprisoned or in house arrest, investigating abuses committed by state forces, returning the legal personality and confiscated assets of civil society organizations and allowing presidential, legislative and municipal elections to be brought forward and monitored by the international community. the european union must apply specific individual sanctions to those responsible in the nicaraguan government for crimes against humanity and activate the democratic clause in the eu-central america association agreement. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that 'as they say in my country, you cannot close a door and leave a window open, a window which, in this particular case, may mean that millions of euros from european taxpayers can be used to finance a bloody regime which has already caused more than 300 deaths, 600 arrests and thousands of exiles.
mr president, democracy is not a model of political organisation independent of the cultural context and history of peoples. there are, however, principles which are an absolute condition for the structuring of a democratic regime. these principles and values underlie our project, commissioner. and so we have in our identity matrix to promote these principles in our territory and in the world. these are principles based on respect for the rule of law, human rights and the identity of peoples. it is with these principles, while others seek the goods and resources in venezuela, that we seek to give back to the venezuelan people the voice and the choice in free elections and it is these principles also that must continue to guide our attitude towards the authoritarian regime in nicaragua. this is the time to use the mechanisms at our disposal under international law to stand with the nicaraguan people. for the sake of democracy and the dignity of the people, we must continue to act with determination and courage, and the resolution we shall be adopting in this house tomorrow is proof of that.
mr president, commissioner, i belong to a generation which, in its adolescence, followed the sandinista revolution in nicaragua with great enthusiasm and great hope. i remember well that every day we waited for news from that country and i remember well the days when we celebrated with great joy the fall of the dictator somoza and the victory of the sandinista revolutionaries. and yet this regime has failed its people, has failed to live up to its historical responsibilities. and as is often the case with regimes that degenerate, it now resorts to disinformation, intimidation and the invention of external enemies to serve as scapegoats for its own failures. like the bolivarian regime in venezuela, the sandinista regime has become a gross distortion of democratic values and the founding values of the democratic left. instead of equality, poverty. instead of freedom, repression of civil society and persecution of political opponents. it is precisely in the name of the values of the democratic left, and i am a socialist, that we must condemn in the strongest possible terms what is happening in nicaragua today. and this resolution does just that. it is a hard and informed motion, which does not shy away from any of the flagrant violations of human rights and the rule of law that are taking place in that country today. it clearly calls for sanctions against members of the government and calls for the suspension of nicaragua's participation in the eu-central america association agreement. and all this in the name of one word: democracy. it is in the name of this word that a democratic revolution was once made and today we can say that this revolution has been a revolution betrayed in recent years.
the visit of an afet mission to kazakhstan last september, which i was part of, exposed the repressive stupidity of the regime of nursultan nazarbayev, which lives on the cult of the delusional personality at the head of a totalitarian and kleptocratic system. in front of our delegation in almaty, the kazakh police arrested activists who wanted to contact us. we demand, at that time, the immediate release of these victims and all other citizens imprisoned and tortured by a regime that restricts the internet, represses human rights activists and any and all opponents. we demand this again today in this resolution, the release of all those like mukhtar dzhakishev, who is about to lose his sight, iskander yerimbetov, aset abishev, and so many others who are listed, including supporters of the democratic choice of kazakhstan movement, or all those who take to the streets with the colors of that movement. next week, nazarbayev is going to grant presidential pardons. it is time for the european union to make good on the commitments it has made in the partnership agreement with kazakhstan and to show that it needs reforms, that it cannot continue to oppress a country in which we are in dire need of stability and democratic reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, kazakhstan, which was the first central asian country to gain a seat on the un security council, is not capable of guaranteeing peace and security for its own citizens. in this former soviet republic, freedom of association remains non-existent, human rights activists and the lgbti community and dissenting voices are persecuted, detained and often subjected to torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. the regime of president nazarbayev prosecutes trade union leaders, including those who denounce the absolutely degrading working conditions of thousands of kyrgyz immigrants, including children, and the threat of militant islam is used as an excuse to restrict the religious freedom of minorities, including christians, who live under almost constant surveillance and are fined for praying without government permission. the european union, in the framework of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, should urge the kazakh authorities, as members of the venice commission, to comply with their international human rights obligations and call on the astana government to release political prisoners and respect freedom of religion and belief.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to this debate and i am glad to have heard it, because when we discussed the nuclear agreement with mrs mogherini here a few months ago, i felt, especially on mrs mogherini's part, that the regime in tehran was relativising the horrors it is committing. i'm very glad that today we call the iranian regime what we should call it. it is a totalitarian criminal regime which does not respect human rights at all, and it is good that the commission is here, and i hope that mrs mogherini will manage the atmosphere that exists here on the premises of the european parliament, and that economic and other interests cannot be exchanged for the protection of human rights. i support the resolution, having contributed to it myself with a piece on the repression of ethnic and religious minorities in iran. i think it's very good that we send a clear signal that because of the nuclear deal with iran, we are not willing to tolerate the wrongdoing and the crimes of this regime, the crimes against human rights.
mr president, the more i defend the joint comprehensive plan of action, and the more i defend the need to engage with iran in all areas, the more i also contend that the eu must be vocal about human rights in iran, about supporting all the brave men and women in iran fighting for basic rights – like the women who gather every day, with white scarves, to fight the compulsory hijab. when the committee on foreign affairs visited iran in february of last year, we were confronted afterwards with the death in custody of environmental activist kavous seyed-emami. outrageous, outrageous! an affront against us – because she is a sakharov prize laureate – is the sentence against nasrin sotoudeh. and, as many speakers have mentioned here, many others are also suffering in iran and we can’t tolerate that. the sentence against nasrin sotoudeh is also, and primarily, an affront against the iranian civilisation. it’s outrageous. we cannot accept it and high representative federica mogherini has to be absolutely vocal about that. (applause)
mr president, i have spoken here in this chamber many times to denounce the lack of democracy, the disregard for human rights and the atrocities and crimes against humanity committed by the ayatollah regime against its own citizens. the truth is that the repressive iranian regime can no longer hide the fact that iran is the most repressive country in the middle east and that it executes more people per capita than any other country in the world. human rights defenders are no exception to this bloodthirsty drive by the regime in tehran, with the bodyguards of the revolutionary guard killing dozens and arresting thousands, including those brave women who face imprisonment, torture and rape for simply peacefully calling for democracy and gender equality in their country. the iranian regime is a stain of shame on the international community and on all of humanity. how long are we going to accept this monstrous regime that treats its leaders and followers like veritable animals of the worst kind? ladies and gentlemen, after 40 years of brutal clerical dictatorship, 80 million iranians are fed up and say, as we do: enough is enough!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. yesterday we had the opportunity to debate a resolution on nicaragua here, and there were incisive statements condemning what has been a very negative development of the regime in nicaragua, and today we are faced with a different situation, but one which points to situations very close to it. what has been happening in guatemala is a negative development in the direction of a progressive disregard for fundamental rules of the rule of law, which has resulted in the decision to call into question the existence of an international commission against impunity which had made very significant progress, inter alia, in the fight against corruption, and now in the prospect of moving towards an amnesty which is incompatible with fundamental principles of law. i would like to make a very specific reference here to the indigenous peoples in guatemala who have historically been deprived of their fundamental rights and who deserve a special word of attention from this european parliament.
mr. chairman, i join with my colleagues in calling for tough action against guatemala. it is clear that the situation in this country is deteriorating. as a former minister of justice, i'm interested in how this office fights corruption. i must say that what other colleagues have already said here, that the international commission against impunity in guatemala, the so-called cicig, is in fact being liquidated by the current government, is extremely wrong. it's an extremely dangerous signal and we should take a hard line. a country where corruption is rife, where violence against the population is common, where there are unexplained murders, needs an institution of international repute that fights serious forms of crime and corruption. if we only look at how the current government is liquidating cicig, i think it would be very bad, and our negotiations, commissioner, should reflect to this country that we are very dissatisfied with the government's attitude to the rule of law, to the fight against corruption and to this commission.
mr president, after having been in nicaragua two months ago to verify on the ground the allegations of human rights violations, the repression of the ortega opposition to the nicaraguan people, now a country next door to you, guatemala, which apparently was following in some way the path of progress and the restoration of democratic life in the country, reverses its course and decides, through its parliament, to pass a law that could endanger the very law of national reconciliation adopted 23 years ago and which has allowed to seal the peace and pacify society. this is, mr president, the adoption last month of an amnesty law for crimes against humanity committed during the guatemalan civil war and the possible adoption of the reform of the ngo law which will limit the work of these organizations in the country. the european union cannot only condemn the attack on human rights defenders and indigenous peoples, but must also clearly and unequivocally demonstrate its concern about the adoption of these laws, in particular by calling into question the very maintenance of the association agreement with central america and the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with regard to guatemala, until respect for human rights is restored in that country.
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint resolution on climate change because i do not want us to reach a point of no return, a point where successive environmental catastrophes will endanger our existence on planet earth. the political class must show unity on the issue and cannot dismiss the signs that are all too obvious, such as the worsening of extreme weather events and global warming. optimising resources is essential to avoid over-exploitation and to do this we need a collaborative effort between the agricultural and industrial sectors, in tune with the most aware and responsible consumers. with scientific and technological advances, we already have the ability to produce clean energy and use renewable sources. so it makes no sense to perpetuate the mistake of using fossil fuels. but for this transition, we need broad commitment and political and executive consensus at the various levels of governance: european, national and local. we must finance the transition to a green and sustainable economy in a more definitive and ambitious way, without getting lost in cosmetic measures and false improvements brought about by the greed of some sectors of the business. protecting the environment is protecting the constructive future of humanity. i just hope it's not too late.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for drawing attention to this matter. the commission is concerned about the high rates of discrimination and the manifestations of hatred reported to be seriously affecting people of african descent and black people in europe, as recently shown by fundamental rights agency research. preventing and fighting afrophobia and other forms of racism are fully embedded in the commission’s policies against discrimination and racism, which remain a clear priority for us. eu action in this area comprises a variety of measures and tools, including the continuing monitoring of the transposition and implementation of relevant eu legislation and, in particular, the race equality directive and the framework decision on combating racism. in the past years, we have been working hard to provide national authorities with guidance on how to ensure the effective implementation of legislation. we have focused on data on equality and hate crime, victim support and improving investigation into, and the prosecution of, hate speech and hate crime. last november, we published a new guidance note on the practical application of the eu framework decision on combating racism, which will serve as a useful tool to prompt and assist national law-enforcement and judicial authorities in better enforcing national legislation on hate crime and hate speech on the ground. flagship policy initiatives, such as a code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online, and the work on diversity chapters, are also providing a key contribution to concrete progress on the ground. all these horizontal initiatives play a key role in terms of preventing and countering afrophobia and anti-black racism. but, indeed, the recognition of afrophobia and anti-black racism as a specific form of racism is important. following thematic discussion in the eu high level group on combating racism and other forms of intolerance, we published last november a policy paper which provides an overview of the main issues raised by stakeholders on the specific barriers, prejudices and obstacles facing people of african descent and black people across europe. on this basis, targeted measures are identified, in order effectively to address discrimination, exclusion and intolerance directed against those communities. we hope this policy paper can be a useful tool both for policymakers at eu and national level and for ngos and other stakeholders. i look forward to this debate and to the ideas of the european parliament, which will be reflected in the resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, in the context of combating institutional, personal and internalized racism, the un has declared the period 2015-2024 as the international decade for people of african descent. despite this proclamation, the truth is that in the member states of the european union people of african descent continue to be racially, socially and legally discriminated against, more vulnerable to unemployment and, due to their political underrepresentation in the european institutions, prevented from contributing to the elimination of these forms of discrimination against them. this sad picture is a shame that is seen all over europe, including in my own country, where people of african descent are particularly vulnerable socially and economically and where, unfortunately, reports of police violence based on racial discrimination persist, where numerous portuguese people of african descent continue to be treated as immigrants and immigrant people of african descent see their right to nationality restricted and their rights inherent in it denied to them by institutional racism that persists in the 21st century. it is therefore urgent to create a european union framework for national strategies for the inclusion and social integration of people of african descent, including the promotion of political empowerment, the fight against afrophobia and hate crimes. in the 21st century, we cannot continue to stand by and watch discriminatory treatment of citizens, whether on the basis of colour, religion or sexual preference. europe is, and must remain, an area of freedom, solidarity and equal opportunities for all and non-discrimination in access to employment, pay and even access to health care.
blue-card question. – i totally disagree with you mr sant and i want to ask you, what have you done to prevent your country, malta, from being indeed a tax haven that puts in question the fight against organised crime, not only financial crime but including terrorism in the eu? what have you done to prevent e-gambling, crypto-currencies, the corruption that was exposed in the panama papers, the two members of your government that are still in government despite being totally exposed in the panama papers? please tell us, what have you done to prevent that?
mr president, this report exposes the europe we do not want, which allows tax havens in luxembourg, the netherlands, cyprus, malta, ireland and money-laundering holes from the city of london to madeira. the governments that prostitute the european union by selling golden visas to kleptocrats and criminals all over the world. the governments that make brutal tax increases on citizens to channel billions into banks, explaining that there is no money for schools, hospitals, public services, while allowing the big multinationals and the big fortunes to benefit from tax amnesties and tax write-offs, as happened in my country, with the blessing of the troika. the one of the ministers in the eurogroup, who continue to race to the bottom in the jungle and tax injustice, letting the big tech companies continue to evade taxes and criminal organizations, including terrorists, continue to benefit from the carousel of vat fraud. citizens want a union based on the rule of law, ensuring tax fairness, fair competition in the internal market, no tax dumping, and effective action against tax fraud, money laundering and the financing of terrorism. a europe that applies the ccctb and taxes on financial transactions, on technology platforms, on polluting companies that strengthen the european budget and national budgets.
mr president, tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union amount to one trillion euros. in portugal, 10 billion euros are not going to the state coffers, the entire budget for health and education. but 20% of this amount, some two billion euros, is vat fraud, which is the only tax that is harmonized within the european union. and so let's stop with the false pretenses: there is much to be done beyond tax harmonization. tax havens, the transfer of profits to tax havens, transparency, the automatic exchange of information, and we also have to question this sacred cow of the european union which is the total freedom of movement of capital, because the truth, and few admit it, but tax fraud or aggressive tax planning is inseparable from the capitalist system and expresses the class domination of the multinationals over political power.
mr president, the european union is a community of laws based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. unfortunately, in some member states these principles are only a dead letter and investigative journalists pay with their lives for the courage to denounce the fragility of democracy, political patronage, corruption and abuse of power in their countries. that was the price paid by the slovak jan kuciak, who was murdered for investigating the links between organised crime in the highest spheres of political power in his country and in malta by daphne galizia, without any credible public inquiry having been opened to date to establish who were the real instigators of his brutal murder. when we are ready to criticise the polish government or mr orbán, we cannot ignore what these brutal crimes have sought to silence. the politicization of the judiciary and the police, the weakness of the fight against corruption and money laundering in these two member states, aggravated in the case of malta, as in my country, portugal, by the gold visa programmes which are often a shameful scheme of money laundering that opens the doors of the union to criminals and corrupt people.
mr president, commissioner, you spoke about the role of whistleblowers. i ask you to keep a close eye on what is happening in my country with rui pinto, football leaks whistleblower john, who is in custody and feels his life is in danger. i led the mission to malta after the murder of daphne caruana galizia. i find it unbearable that the perpetrators of the murder have not yet been arrested and that perhaps, i fear, the release of the perpetrators is being prepared because the investigation is being blocked by prime minister joseph muscat, who is in charge of the police and the attorney general. because there is no separation of powers in malta and that is why they are now making the amendments that my colleague miriam dalli has mentioned. in malta, as in slovakia, all the indications are that the mafia's capture of the government is behind these murders, the murders of daphne, jan and martina. it is intolerable that joseph muscat continues to protect the corrupt panama papers-linked elements in his government and that he continues to attack those who seek justice for daphne, including his children, by pursuing them with defamation lawsuits. i ask my colleagues in the political family who are inclined to ((the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – (start of speech off mike) ... reforms that can indeed ensure the separation of powers and the rule of law. that’s exactly the reason why they are not there. these are not being respected, and that’s the reason why the investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia is blocked. that is outrageous. i hope that anyone serious like yourself would be against that.
mr president, the debate and decision on the seasonal change of time cannot be dissociated from the geographical, social, cultural and other particularities of each country. the european commission is now proposing, in the name of the so-called proper functioning and harmonization of the single market, to impose an end to the seasonal change of time. we recall that there is no closed position in the scientific community, neither on the modalities in which seasonal time changes should be made, nor on the benefits or harms of the existence of such changes and their implications for the health and well-being of the population. we also recall something that the european commission seems to have forgotten: the establishment of the statutory time is a matter for the member states. for all these reasons, we believe that the existence or non-existence of seasonal time changes must take into account the wishes of the respective population, the opinion of the scientific community and the interest of each country, and we therefore reject any impositions by the european union in this matter.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. other madam president, commissioner, throughout this parliamentary term the european union has fallen short of its ambition and its obligation to deepen its institutional and political commitment to competitiveness and convergence. however, there have been exceptions: the energy union and the digital union are good examples and that is why we are here today debating this legislation. it is not enough, however, to go forward. the choices and how they ensure the union's leadership in the energy transition, industrial competitiveness and people's access to clean, healthy and affordable electricity need to be taken into account. we also need to ensure the principle of energy efficiency first, ensure a just transition, strengthen transparency and the capacity for market regulation and give priority to production from renewable sources to actually reduce emissions. a single internal market cannot be synonymous with a market without rules. it must be a market where fair competition is possible, in a transparent and coordinated way, without compromising safety and innovation. it is therefore time to shed a new light on the european union and its citizens.
the european union has some of the best consumer protection rules in the world, but the current framework does not allow for a robust and equitable enforcement of this legislation in the union. the risk of breaches of union law affecting the collective interests of consumers is increasing due to economic globalisation and the digitalisation of our economy, and the dieselgate case has exposed the fragility of european consumers in having their rights protected and redressed in large-scale cross-border breaches. more than anything, a basic principle on which the eu is founded is at stake: access to justice for 500 million european consumers by allowing a qualified entity to seek redress on behalf of a group of consumers who have been harmed by an illegal commercial practice. harmonized common principles are established, but national legal traditions are also respected and bad faith litigation is prevented. together with the reform we have made of the regulation on cooperation between national consumer enforcement authorities, the revision of the consumer rights directive and now the collective actions, we have strengthened and sealed the european consumer protection framework.
madam president, the regulation on tyre labelling is an area where rigor and transparency are essential, given that it is a consumer product that separates safety from risk, life from death, sustainable production from unregulated exploitation of resources, environmental quality from worsening pollution and waste accumulation. the principle of transparency and communication, as the commissioner knows, based on the robust recording of the necessary data, must allow this legislation we are looking at to be useful for the sector and, at the same time, to encourage a circular approach to the management of resources. the work of the rapporteurs - which i welcome - will enable us to adopt useful regulations that improve energy regulation, sustainability, safety, defending consumers, without jeopardising the competitiveness of european industry. in short, it is a regulation which will enable us to help put the european union on safer wheels.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your contributions to this debate. reducing the climate change impact of the transport sector is a key objective of our energy and mobility policies. given the contribution of tyres’ role and assistance in the fuel consumption of cars, buses and trucks, it is important to ensure that users are provided with up-to-date and accurate information about tyre performance. the aim of the commission proposal is therefore to strengthen the information requirements on fuel efficiency, noise and safety aspects of tyres and make labels more visible and reliable. i encourage the european parliament to fully support the ambition of the commission proposal to ensure that tyre users can make the best choice from an energy efficiency and safety perspective, and can gain financially. i look forward to our further discussions on this important proposal in the next phases of the co—decision process.
madam president, the calamity has struck the central regions of mozambique following the passage of cyclone idai. the data points to a 90% destruction of the city of beira. nearly 800,000 people are affected and the confirmed death toll stands at 447. in addition to the devastation of the region, there is a risk of outbreaks of epidemics, including malaria, filariasis and cholera, and several deaths with symptoms of the latter have already been recorded. the united nations has appealed for emergency aid of two hundred and fifty million euros specifically for mozambique. the european union has announced a total of 3.5 million in aid not only to that country but also to zimbabwe and malawi, which are also affected, an amount which must be rapidly increased by providing, in addition to financial aid, material and food aid, life-saving equipment and medical assistance. other measures can and should be considered, such as channelling funds from the european development fund, or by triggering discussion on measures such as debt cancellation for these countries.
madam president, commissioner, at the end of last week the spanish energy companies, with the government's approval, decided to extend the life of the two reactors at the almaraz nuclear power station for the second time until 2028. if the 30-year useful life of this unit ended in 2011, the question is, commissioner, why extend its operation for another 17 years? for those who do not know, this plant is located in a seismic hazard zone 100 km from the portuguese border, on the tagus river, which passes through lisbon 320 km later, encountering protected landscapes and biodiversity sanctuaries listed in the natura 2000 network. and to add to this spanish nuclear threat, we have in salamanca, near the portuguese border, open-cast uranium mines which will probably continue to fuel the spanish nuclear dream. the question i ask, commissioner, is what is the use of an environmental impact assessment directorate if there are no crossborder risk assessments and why a protocol of cooperation in nuclear emergency between portugal and spain if, in these matters, spain treats its neighbour as if it did not exist? the truth is that spain is more concerned about the nuclear deal than the consequences of a disaster for future generations and the portuguese government seems to be asleep while, every year that passes, we continue to play this russian roulette hoping that the bad luck will not happen.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to ask the colleague who said that there is no creation if there is no fair remuneration for the creators, to quote the part of the directive where it is explicit that there will be fair remuneration for the creators. i just can't find it. there is censorship, but fair compensation for creators is nowhere to be found. please quote me the part of the directive where it is. i thank you!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand the position of the gafa, google, apple, facebook, amazon and all the american platforms who are against this directive because it threatens their gigantic profits that they make every year in europe by offering free content produced by european publishers, newspapers and authors. i understand that mrs julia reda is against it, because she is in favour of the generalization of piracy and that is why the party to which she belongs is called the pirate party, which is an anti-copyright party. i understand that some far right groups are against this directive for obvious reasons, because they are against the european union. i do not understand that people, members of parliament, who in their countries talk about defending national culture and european culture, are against this directive.
madam president, we are witnessing a collapse of giants that has nothing to do with safeguarding the interests of either the creators or the users. let us be clear, what is at stake is the distribution of the profits that result from the dissemination of content without ensuring a fair remuneration for the creators. for these, inequality, dependency and precariousness remain. the filters are being institutionalized, restricting creative freedom, freedom of the press and free access to culture, while at the same time promoting greater concentration and monopoly in the digital sector. you commodify and normalize culture. we have put forward proposals to ensure that authors, artists, creators, performers and journalists are fairly remunerated for their work and the use of their works, fair remuneration compatible with the democratization and diversification of culture with the wide and free dissemination and enjoyment of content, without filters or censorship, which requires, in particular, the large platforms and producers to give up the magnificent profits and redistribute them fairly among creators.
madam president, we must remember why this directive was created, it was not created because people have difficulty accessing culture or the internet, it was created because we have citizens who want to be able to enjoy the income of their work and cannot yet have everyone accessing and using this production without any kind of control. i would remind you that piracy and counterfeiting are crimes precisely because they subvert the laws of production and consumption, exploiting the labour of others and creating social inequality. in art, in culture, in journalism, it's exactly the same, and this is what we have to think about when we feel we have the right to use a text, a song or an image for our own benefit without paying the creator. if a creator wants to donate his work for free use he can do so, but if a creator wants to protect his right to use his work he can't, he doesn't have enough means today to protect it from the digital space. that is the purpose of this directive. it is a shame the manipulation of the citizens in this matter has prevented it from being given... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i know that we are already in pre-campaign mode, but it is completely unacceptable to accuse cohesion policy of not having helped greece and my country, portugal. it's not just intellectual and political dishonesty, it's moral dishonesty. and so what we have done in this report is to ensure that cohesion policy continues, and will continue, to reduce inequalities and to contribute to a more social europe that is closer to its regions and its citizens. this is why special attention is paid to demographic, natural or structural handicaps which are permanent, such as the case of the outermost regions. it was only right that the guarantee for these regions from erdf and cohesion fund support should be included in the investments in waste facilities and management and environmental protection. another important measure was the maintenance of infrastructure funding at its airports. however, commissioner, i would like to say that i am very concerned about the effects of a thematic concentration at national level.
mr president, commissioner, the cohesion fund and the erdf are essential, crucial instruments for the convergence policy of the european regions, but they are especially for the outermost regions. i cannot but regret two absences here: firstly the absence of commissioner corina crețu, and secondly the absence in her speech of the commission representative for the outermost regions. the report we are about to vote on mentions this fact and, contrary to what has been done by the portuguese socialist government, this parliament does not accept a cut in cohesion policy. unlike the disinvestment that has been made by the portuguese government in the outermost regions, the approval of this new proposal for regions such as madeira, which once again has instruments to promote investment in employment, innovation, housing, the integration of migrants, mobility and transport, is reinforced. we have a compromise agreement here in the european parliament. i hope that there will be a clear commitment from the member states, including portugal, as regards the final amounts so that we can have a future framework with more support also for the outermost regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every day in the european union, millions of citizens access digital content and services and sign contracts to do so. in several member states, however, there are no clear rules on the purchase of digital content and there are multiple and different rules on online and offline contracts. with this new package we are strengthening consumer rights, giving a common framework of rights to citizens and businesses and ensuring predictability for all, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we have thus removed the main contract law obstacles which hinder cross-border trade. including in-person sales was key. with only one set of rules for physical or virtual shops, we give legal certainty to businesses and consumers. i also welcome the fact that the acquired rights of consumers in some member states, such as portugal, have been safeguarded. full harmonization which does not respect the rights of these countries, which are more advanced in consumer protection, would be unfair and unacceptable. we want to improve consumer protection, not weaken it. the citizens' europe we are trying to build has the obligation to defend and guarantee these rights at all times.
mr president, the regulation we are considering ensures a sustainable energy transition in the sector of new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles. it also stimulates innovation in new technologies that make the acquisition of zero- and/or low-emission vehicles affordable. it introduces real-world co2 emissions testing as a condition of vehicle type approval, which can help us to avoid fraudulent practices such as those identified by the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions of which i was a member. i therefore welcome the rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, and the whole team who have worked on this dossier for the extremely balanced proposal for a regulatory framework which makes it possible to articulate the transition to the mobility model, innovation and adaptation of european industry and safeguarding the interests of workers and taxpayers. we have to put this proposal for sustainable innovation into practice, we have to have the capacity to monitor, we have to have the capacity to train workers and develop territories sustainably to be one step ahead in modernity.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the whole debate, in which we made our political position quite clear. i'm going with her. we must support the process of democratization in algeria, and we must make it clear that we will do everything possible to ensure that president bouteflika does not run for office and leaves office. on the other hand, everything must be done to ensure that there is no violence and no civil war in algeria, where the demonstrations are currently taking place peacefully. we should offer clear assistance to algeria in organizing the presidential elections, send a mission and be a partner in making those elections as inclusive and free as possible, and that it is a clear president who will gain not only legality but also legitimacy in the elections. we must be careful, and i am echoing what some of my colleagues have said, because the situation may escalate, there may be violence, but the road to democracy must not be blocked in algeria.
mr president, europe, which is washing its hands of the conflict in western sahara, where some of its members have historical responsibilities, cannot pretend not to see what is happening in algeria, which is of such importance to us all. this europe must see that the algerian people are peacefully taking to the streets against a fifth term for the mummy bouteflika, against the military gerontocracy, for genuine democratic reforms, and we cannot remain silent and pretend not to see this, we must clearly stand with the algerian people and say that we support them in solidarity in their demands for democratic reforms. the signals that europe gives can be decisive so that it does not fall into bloodshed as we have seen in other countries of the arab spring in recent years. we absolutely must support the algerian people, the young algerian people in their demand for inclusiveness, for job creation. the prosperity of the algerian people is linked to our prosperity, just as their security and their democracy are linked to ours.
mr president, commissioner, although the social protest which began on 22 february has led president abdelaziz bouteflika to withdraw from the presidential elections to renew his mandate for the fifth time, the fact is that the subsequent sine die suspension of the electoral act scheduled for 18 april represents in practice a de facto extension of his mandate and millions of people are still in the streets protesting against this manifestly unconstitutional delaying manoeuvre. if article 102 of the constitution is activated, which provides for the dismissal of the president, as some military now suggest, and without autonomous political parties, the risks of a power vacuum, coupled with the serious economic crisis that has plagued the country since 2014, will destabilize the entire region and have geo-strategic consequences also for europe, especially with regard to the fight against regular immigration, the fight against terrorism and the supply of hydrocarbons. it is therefore important that the european union, in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, appeals to the algerian authorities to guarantee the right to peaceful demonstration and to support all efforts to hold free elections as soon as possible, and to prevent the current impasse from leading to another fiasco of the arab spring.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the illegal and forcible occupation of crimea by the russian federation is in flagrant violation of the 1994 international treaty on the denuclearization of ukraine. it violates the rights of the ukrainian people, in particular the rights of the indigenous tatar people. putin has set up a russia which disrespects international law, does not even respect the un charter, and uses crimea in an expansionist campaign to deter democracy in neighbouring countries and with strategic partnerships with the european union, as is the case with georgia, which also has territories illegally occupied by russia. he is not missing an opportunity to fuel the war in donbass, to escalate tensions in the black sea, as we have seen in the sea of azov and the kerch strait, to make clandestine incursions into the baltic states and to weaken and destroy the european union itself, we have to face him! political statements are not enough, nor are sanctions. we must understand, in order to stand firmly by ukraine, that only by being militarily capable can we also in the european union be able to meet the responsibilities of the strategic defence of europe, of the citizens, of all our member states, because the armed conflict is real, it can spread and it can even lead to a nuclear catastrophe.
mr president, five years after the illegal occupation of crimea by russia, we cannot fail to express our deep protest and condemnation of this illegitimate action by russia once again in this parliament. we cannot but draw attention to the absolutely bellicose behaviour which this country has been carrying out in the kerch strait and the sea of azov, and to the growing militarization in the black sea which is damaging to the whole region. there can be no doubt about that. but there is one point that we must also make very clearly here: russia today is not the soviet union. i was deeply, and i am deeply, anti-soviet. russia must be distinguished from the soviet union. our position is not based on an anti-russian attitude by nature, our position is only a critical position towards an autocratic regime which calls into question fundamental principles and rights which are fundamental principles and rights which this european union has an obligation to defend.
mr president, i am very pleased that this debate has clearly shown that we have a dominant majority and a clear view that the occupation of crimea is an illegal act, that it violates international law, that russia continues its illegal activities with its military provocations, especially in the sea of azov. i am also very glad that some of us have recalled the very difficult situation of various minorities in crimea itself. the situation is very uncomfortable there, it is an occupied territory and it has already happened here several times, especially crimean tatars are very discriminated against. there's a harsh crackdown on political opponents, on human rights activists, on independent journalists. that is, this is also an aspect that needs to be mentioned, not only the violation of international law, but the very behavior of russia towards the residents of crimea who have maintained a certain loyalty to ukraine or want to live an autonomous life independent of the russian model. so it's good that we're commemorating this anniversary today, and it's clear that sanctions against russia cannot be lifted.
mr president, five years after the illegal annexation of crimea, the purges of public services, arbitrary detentions and violations of human rights, especially against the tatars, and, reluctantly, international condemnation and sanctions, are continuing. the kremlin is continuing to push forward its plans to accelerate the integration of the peninsula, including by strengthening its military presence. the question is: how many more anniversaries of the so-called crimean spring will we have to commemorate here until the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine are restored and the minsk agreements are respected? the union must not only renew the economic sanctions in force until the end of july next, but also be able to put a stop to the scandalous russian money laundering, including by european state banks, in the european banking system. this is because of the courage to ignore external pressure, to put russia on the money laundering blacklist and to bring infringement proceedings against those states which have not yet transposed the fourth anti-money laundering directive. the union cannot impose a sanctions regime against russian expansionism and at the same time allow european banks to provide it with the financial oxygen to continue.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. and so we continue to feed fictions like libya has a government and a navy or that sisi's militarist government - which killed giulio regeni and oppresses, imprisons and tortures more egyptians than deposed mubarak - is a respectable and cooperative partner. if europe abandons a comprehensive and consistent strategy for the southern mediterranean region based on the values and principles it espouses and which should be on the side of the peoples who are calling for freedom, democracy, justice and development and not on the side of the regimes that are preventing them, then we will neither help these brother peoples nor defend our interests, including our security, which is inextricably linked to theirs and to the ability to create jobs and socioeconomic opportunities for young people. the points made by mr brando benifei in this report are therefore very important, listing the objectives for the european union's action in the region, starting with political dialogue, respect for human rights, women's rights and minorities, and above all stressing the need for integrated policies to put an end to the mafia of human traffickers and other traffickers, linked to terrorist groups, who finance themselves through offshore operations, which are sanctioned by the european union and within the european union itself, just as we must stop the sale of arms by member states and other regional actors which end up in the hands of criminal and terrorist groups in the region and which will eventually turn against us in europe.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the middle east. these regions have become more unstable, more insecure, we had the military intervention in libya, we had the military intervention in syria, imperialism has caused the complete destabilization of that territory and, objectively, strengthened terrorism, human trafficking and all the activities of organized crime associated with it. such events, as reality shows, do not arise by chance, they are part of a wider strategy to dominate the energy materials that abound in those territories. we regret that this resolution lacks any critical vision of the role of the european union, nato and the united states in these regions. we condemn the exploitation of human rights and call for respect for international law and the sovereignty of peoples.
madam president, this european council, the spring european council, was the last one before european elections, and yes, we expect a lot from the european council. 20 years ago, we were able to define a grand plan to deal with europe and globalisation. this was the lisbon agenda, followed by the lisbon treaty. the time has come again to define a grand plan for europe and the world. yes, the world is changing a lot. when it comes to china, it is very important to say – as we just said – that we want to have a strategic partnership with china, but working in both directions and respecting our values. we also know that fighting against climate change and promoting sustainable development goals will become an absolute priority for the next agenda. most of all, if we speak about european sovereignty, we europeans need to master the current digital revolution. we need to promote the european way to drive the digital revolution, and this should be said to our chinese partners in the next summit. a european way of digital revolution means protecting privacy, our security and our freedom. this also means using digital tools, not to undermine democracy, but to enrich democracy. this means that digital innovation should be at the heart of promoting new services and new products to meet human needs – citizens’ needs. most of all, we need to make sure these will be translated into more and better jobs, and that we can update our social protection systems to protect citizens throughout this big transformation. i’m pretty confident that, for europeans, knowledge, culture, our creativity is by far the main asset. these should inspire the kind of artificial intelligence which must be developed. so we need to invent this new phase of the future. there is a lot of life beyond this deathly path of brexit.
madam president, mr tusk, mr barnier, the first point i wanted to make clear to the whole british parliament today - i don't need to tell mr farage, because he already knows that - is that the whole european union is here in good faith and in good faith with regard to the british people and the british negotiators. the second point i want to make here, and which must be made clear, is that the brexit issue is not just a matter of definition, of a negotiation and of rights, it is not just a plan to say what rights british citizens have and what rights european citizens have, each on the territory of the united kingdom or the european union. it is also the support on the ground to businesses and citizens and that is failing at the moment, it is failing because, as we are letting the deadlines slip, the uncertainty and instability of citizens and businesses is enormous. i have been with the british community in the algarve, with portuguese tourism businessmen, the chairman of my party has been with the portuguese communities in the united kingdom and i must say that, regardless of our discussions here about the framework, the framework and the treaties, at the moment there are hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, suffering from the uncertainty and instability into which we are throwing the lives of businesses and citizens.
madam president, the council has made a good decision on postponing brexit. a short extension of article 50 is only acceptable until 22 may and if the divorce agreement with the uk is approved in the house of commons this week. if that does not happen, the united kingdom has until 12 april at the latest to clarify once and for all what it intends to do. and there's a good reason for that, because the european union cannot accept that the huge brexit mess will contaminate the european elections and cause a legal war and a legitimacy crisis around the european parliament that is going to be elected. so as rapporteur for the reconstitution of parliament, i have inserted a clause that says that the new composition of parliament will only come into force if brexit becomes legally effective. that is what we must use now, if the deal is not passed and the no deal scenario is removed, as i hope, the only acceptable extension of article 50, as president tusk said, is a long extension that allows british citizens to participate in the elections and gives the uk time to define a new strategy for its future.
in writing. the reforms imposed in the context of the european semester invariably involve labour deregulation, attacks on the social functions of the state, liberalization and privatization. these conclusions also reaffirm the agenda of deregulation of international trade, which opens markets and business opportunities to big capital at the same time as it accentuates the pressure on workers and peoples for the loss of social and labour rights. they reaffirm their intention to deepen the single market and economic and monetary union, which have promoted inequality and divergence within the european union, to the detriment of countries such as portugal. in portugal, this agenda - defended in the european parliament by the ps, psd and cds - finds its defenders and executors in these same parties. the results are in sight: the lack of response to the country's structural problems and the limited response, even in the current situation, to the just desires and aspirations of large sections of the population. no more impositions!
the european council was right to maintain a coordinated and flexible approach to the process of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (eu). the two timing scenarios proposed for the choice of the british government and parliament show that the union does not want to put pressure on the british people or their representatives, respects the decision taken in the referendum on the subject, but is not insensitive to the growing voices calling for a new referendum and expressing their desire to remain in the eu. i would also stress that, in addition to the key issue of the brexit process, the council discussed key issues to strengthen the european partnership and its global voice, namely the deepening of the internal market, the modernisation and competitiveness of industry, the development of the digital economy and the promotion of an ambitious trade agenda. the best response the eu can give to the uncertainty created by brexit is to strengthen the strategic lines that will enable it to assert its values in the new global order.
madam president, it is obvious that the question of a mobility package is a difficult one from a political point of view, but it has become a saga. we are disregarding all the work that has been done by the members of the various committees, the rapporteurs and, above all, the committee on transport. it is not democratic what this parliament is going through and it is not worthy of the european parliament to examine 1,700 amendments at the last minute. the proposals, it must be stressed, have also come from the european commission, and they are already biased, and we must therefore make this point because all the work that has been done here in the european parliament has been to balance that proposal which comes from the european commission, which is already in fact unbalanced. we have made an effort to respect one of the basic principles of the single market, the free movement of workers and goods, and so we prefer no agreement to a bad agreement, and so i hope that the next legislative session will have a better agreement than the one we are fighting here today.
madam president, the chaotic approach to the discussion of this mobility package is a good example of how the institutions of the european union are becoming concerned with the idea of improving, however modestly, the working and social conditions of workers. but what can be expected from the proposals on the table and the council's guidelines does not bode well: exclusions for the posting of workers, preventing it from counting from day one and excluding bilateral transport and cabotage, cabotage rules which, by creating an apparent limitation, make unlimited the number of operations under the double framework and an approach to working time and rest, which at best extends from two to three weeks, if not even to four, the period from which drivers are entitled to enjoy the weekly rest period, that is to say a full regular weekend. this is your social pillar of worker exploitation.
madam president, i apologize for this moment, mr vice-president, but we have had reports in this parliament before this proposal for a directive on the international governance of the oceans and the plastics strategy. in these two papers we understand both the importance of plastic and the problem that arises when these products do not have a proper end and end up floating in the ocean, with a negative impact on the biosphere, and i remind you that 80% of the ocean's waste originates on land. what we're going to need is to change our behavior and the way we relate to these products, to promote a more responsible, smarter consumption that can favor greener alternatives. i would point out that my proposal in the envi committee to include very lightweight plastic bags in the list of prohibited products was not adopted, but i would like to reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, that these bags are so light that they easily escape collection and are blown by the wind and end up in the ocean. the same is true for the unnecessary launching of balloons, and i would add that even though they are biodegradable and compostable materials, these characteristics do not apply in water. but to move from paper to action requires setting targets that allow member states to take action and measure its effectiveness. i therefore welcome all the ambitious targets that are included in the follow-up to this process.
madam president, i would like to welcome you and congratulate the rapporteur on his work in this parliament. it is never easy to draw up a budget for parliament, much less in an election year when amendments which should not even have been put to the vote, and which are even illegal, always appear, and therefore i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur, mr manka, and to all the shadow rapporteurs who have been and are involved in this project. the european people's party has always advocated rigor and transparency, but at the same time the necessary, sufficient means for the goal of legislative excellence. having bad legislation means a huge cost to the citizens of the european union. and we have done a great job in this parliament, a job which also requires quality services and also quality staff, and fortunately we have these high-quality services and excellent staff too. our aim of reducing costs as much as possible must not therefore conflict with principles such as multilingualism. it is necessary that each one continue to speak his own language in this space. there is also a need for translation. it is clear that savings can be made in this area, as we have done, but without reaching this principle, which is the principle of multilingualism. and then, of course, having a parlamentarium, having a house of europe or representations of the parliament in each member state, that has costs, but it is a way of helping to spread not only the work we do, but also the history of the european union and our values. we will continue to seek the balance between rigor, transparency and the necessary but minimal means for the goal of legislative excellence.
mr president, the drinking water directive has been in force for over 20 years and is one of the pillars of european union legislation in this area, providing quality supplies in over 99% of supplies. its review, as mentioned above, follows the first successful european citizens' initiative, right4water, which gathered 1.6 million signatures in favour of improving access to drinking water for all europeans. it is therefore a timely and necessary revision and provides for measures to facilitate access to water in public spaces and to align drinking water quality standards with the most up-to-date scientific parameters. i regret, however, that we have not gone further. some positive things can be highlighted: the reduction of concentration limits for certain pollutants such as lead, the introduction of new limits for endocrine disruptors, the start of the application of microplastics monitoring procedures, the promotion of the use of open sources and in this case the provision of tap water. and also the transition to a circular economy, helping to reduce the use of plastic bottles. we should have gone further, however, in particular in access to water and monitoring of microplastics. we fell short of the ambition of the citizens' petition, but it was a step forward on a path we must continue.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal to amend the directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption is of the utmost importance. it increases the direct costs of water supply, which are borne by the users, significantly, and it also increases the indirect public costs of monitoring and control, without this reflecting an increase in safety. it hinders the provision of public services, encourages privatisation and makes economic supply solutions, which can be safe and viable, particularly at local level, unfeasible. it goes beyond the recommendations of entities such as the world health organization, calls into question the functions of the state of supervision, supervision and control replaced by an alleged self-control of the concessionary companies of water services, is complacent with the non-compliant concessionaires. this proposal, in short, means more expensive, more unsafe, poorer quality water. only the european commission's unabashed submission to the interests of the transnational water companies can explain it.
mr president, i congratulate mr dantin on his excellent work on this report. i would like to recall the european citizens' initiative right2water, of which i was the shadow rapporteur, which reminded us that we have until 2030 to meet sustainable development goal 6 which concerns universal and equitable access to water. and the truth is that we are not only interested in debating the quality of the water we consume in europe, we are not only interested in that, but also in discussing the ways in which we can avoid the shortage of drinking water, aggravated by the effect of climate change, as well as access to water as a fundamental human right. this directive responds to the need to harmonise european minimum criteria which we are proud of, both in terms of quality and accessibility itself. in addition to these factors, this directive also brings greater transparency to the union water sector and the recognition that citizens, as consumers, have a right to be informed about the origin, quality and efficiency of the distribution systems, for which we all pay, directly or indirectly. ensuring the quality of water for human consumption in europe is not only a guarantee of our public health, but also one of the pillars of social justice.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are talking about access to information, very relevant information, in a rapid, systematic and efficient way, but also in a controlled way, which is fundamental for us to control our external borders, to fight crime, to fight terrorism. it is still very difficult today to detect cases of, for example, multiple identities, various types of fraud committed using the identities of others. the information is already available to several authorities, such as sis or etias. we can't say that the information doesn't exist. the point is, this information is not shared. each entity operates barricaded, corporately, in what is its organization, in what is its profession, and does not share them because there is also nothing that obliges it and, in fact, there is no system that is currently created that is sufficiently effective. it is precisely for this purpose that we have worked for a long time here in the european parliament - and we have worked genuinely - in a way in which everyone has contributed, shadow rapporteurs, of course, my co-rapporteur, whom i really thank very much, mr lenaers, the commissioners, we have here commissioner king and commissioner avramopoulos, each of whom was present at our meetings and gave very decisive answers, and, above all, at the interinstitutional level, parliament and the european commission were able to show that when they have a sense of what is a priority, we can give the best answers in favour of the citizens. and that's what happened. in a report which was very technical, overly technical, we were all able to learn, to look at what was difficult and today we can guarantee that, when these solutions are implemented, citizens will be safer than they are at present. i was talking about the multiple-identity cases. if we were to translate this into two examples, in just one of the attacks in germany, one of the terrorists had applied for asylum using fourteen different identities, fourteen different identities! and in another case in france, one of the terrorists, a tunisian national, was registered under seven different identities. this is very impressive and it's the kind of example that, when we tell our fellow citizens, they don't understand. they do not understand, for example, that an attack could take place in france and information that existed in belgium was not transmitted. they don't understand that an attack could happen in belgium and information that was in france had not been transmitted. not often for lack of goodwill, but for lack of this system, this quick, expeditious remedy, which allows the authorities, having doubts, with security and respect for the law, protecting data, to do so. that can't happen again. the security of our citizens, the effective control of our borders, the fight against crime and terrorism must really be a priority and if they are not a priority our lack of response is unfortunately measured later in the number of victims and in the world of crime. and we are elected precisely to, to the extent that we can, make a difference. we must be efficient in this fight! i am very proud to have been a co-chair of this initiative and, above all, to have achieved such a fruitful result when so many people had doubts at the beginning. and for that, i renew my thanks to all of you.
mr president, these proposals extend not only the collection and use of biographical and biometric data - requiring harmonization of information systems - but also the ease with which the authorities can access this body of personal data without the need for judicial authorizations. this is not a purely technical option, but rather a fundamental political option which opens the door to the creation of a surveillance system at the level of the european union. proposals that infringe on the right to privacy and the freedom of citizens themselves deliberately fuel the confusion between migration, crime and terrorism. in practice, this means imposing the principle of the presumption of guilt: everyone is now treated as a potential criminal. today, they are third-country nationals, tomorrow they will be citizens of member states. the sovereignty of states is compromised by imposing a supranational framework which reinforces the unacceptable security drift and the xenophobic and racist response to migration. this is yet another example of how typical views of the far right find their way into the hands of the right and social democracy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, two final remarks: firstly, to the authorities, namely the police, who risk their lives every day to guarantee our freedoms. a second note of contradiction to what we have heard from the greens and the communists. the greens argue that with this system we can check criminals, but also people who are serious. i'd say that's normal, because if we knew who the criminals were, we wouldn't have to investigate anything. it is precisely because they are all mixed together that we must investigate everywhere so that among the honest people, who fortunately in this world are the majority, we can detect the criminals and thereby prevent, in particular, terrorist fighting and a normal flow from the external borders into the european union. as for the communists - who are so concerned about these questions of legality - i would also like to say, although they have been absent because it seems that the debate will not be important enough, that i can guarantee with absolute certainty that here in the european union we will always do everything with much more legality and respect for others and data protection than, for example, the regimes that the communists defend every day whether in venezuela, cuba or north korea, where, yes, there, in an intrusive manner, without respect for human rights, all information is surely collected, arbitrary detentions are made, even for the crime of opinion, and at the limit, people simply disappear at the hands of the state. that said, our concern as members of the european parliament is to ensure that the law is strictly observed and that the people are safe.
the european peace facility proposed by the commission, which this parliament is preparing to approve, is another example of how the european union masks its policies. the ideal of peace is sold abroad, an ideal used to justify the mobilization of substantial funds for defence and armaments. in practice, what this mechanism will finance is not only the european union's military missions but also the strengthening of the military and defence capabilities of third countries. we reject the path that the right wing and the social democrats are trying to impose by feeding the european union's warmongering, interventionist character. those who promote war cannot defend peace. the defence of peace, as the constitution of the portuguese republic advocates, requires the dissolution of nato or military structures in the context of the european union and the promotion of a policy of disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, and the resolution of conflicts mediated in full respect of international law and the charter of the united nations.
we are also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new programme for the protection of the environment. this increase does not, however, overlook the lack of investment in cultural support and the deep precariousness of industrial relations in the sector, leaving artists in a situation of enormous dependence. this is a reality that is not separate from the austerity policies that the european union has imposed. but this proposal encourages a number of aspects which we are not following, it ties the possibility of support to a so-called european added value and subsequently to the policies of the european union and its vision for democracy or external relations. it is also sick of a mercantilist view of culture based on competition, which we reject. the example of the european youth orchestra and the reference to the need to diversify revenues and sources of funding is paradigmatic of this view. approaches that contribute to cultural normalisation and colonization that are contrary to the promotion of freedom and creative independence and the democratisation of culture.
mr president, i congratulate sirpa and mr bas on the excellent work they have done on this dossier. harmonising sustainable investment means bringing more transparency and competitiveness to investment within the union and not being subject to twenty-eight different systems which only contribute to market fragmentation and asymmetries in europe. fighting climate change is going to cost us money. the fact that we have succeeded in moving the economic cloud to water the green areas means that we have fully adopted the ecological guidelines on which europe is betting. if we are geared towards decarbonising the economy, we can only consider sustainable economic activities those that do not contribute to carbon dependence effects, nor produce non-renewable or environmentally harmful waste. we want to create an environment favourable to green investment and therefore information to investors has to be transparent in all businesses so that they can exercise their preferences with all the awareness and commitment that this entails and it is important that they know when they are investing in brown businesses so that they can be held accountable. we must have the courage to disagree when our conscience dictates otherwise.
madam president, i supported this resolution, but i did not support the amendments, especially those proposed by the left, by the social democrats, which are very general in nature and which speak only of a peaceful solution to the situation in venezuela. at this very moment, russia has been increasing its military presence in the region. a hundred russian sailors are in venezuela, and it's clear that peace proclamations alone will not solve the tragic situation that has been going on for months. so i ask the commission, on the basis of this parliament's resolution, to assess the current situation in venezuela, to respond to the fact that russia has sent its soldiers, its sailors to this country, so that we can respond more actively and more firmly than with mere proclamations, which, although they have a significant moral character, but as has been shown in the past, are repeated proclamations and resolutions of the european parliament, which unfortunately have contributed nothing and have done nothing to maduro himself. maduro, the dictator, the undemocratic socialist who is destroying this country, will not be overthrown by resolutions alone.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on venezuela because, almost 60 days after we adopted in this house another resolution on this martyred country, which i was also one of the signatories to, the repression has intensified. the armed groups continue to attack the civilian population, deputies and president guaidó himself with complete impunity, including kidnapping his chief of staff, roberto marrero. humanitarian aid remains blocked at the borders and thousands of venezuelans are waking up after three days without electricity, darkening their daily gloom even more. after yesterday the commission announced that it would increase humanitarian aid by 50 million euros, this house, what we must do, say to mr maduro, is what thousands of venezuelans will certainly repeat the day after tomorrow in the new takeover of caracas. his regime is effectively trapped, and there are no castro friends, military experts or russian anti-aircraft batteries to prevent his growing international isolation. his illegitimate stay in miraflores palace only means more deaths, more arrests, more persecution and more of his countrymen forced to emigrate to escape hunger and misery.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr michel barnier, president, the first point i would like to make is that nobody wants or desires the united kingdom to leave. it was a decision of the united kingdom and if he wants to revoke it, he is welcome to do so. but if you don't want to revoke it, it will be respected as well. the united kingdom needs the european union, and i am speaking as an atlantic country which knows that the united kingdom's atlantic vision is needed. but it shocks me immensely, it shocks me very much, that our discussion here is essentially geopolitical, about political solutions. no one talks about the citizens and businesses that are currently suffering the greatest crisis of uncertainty and instability. that is what i ask the commission, the council and parliament to do: to look at the interests of citizens and businesses. we need to think of a contingency plan for the next few days, we need to think of those at home who are suffering. millions and millions of european citizens are suffering at this moment from this confusion created by the united kingdom.
in writing. the decision of the british people reflects a deep sense of rejection of the european union and its policies which attack the rights and aspirations of workers and the different peoples of europe and increase inequalities and asymmetries, and which disrespect sovereignty. the portuguese government and the european union are called upon to intervene decisively, either with the uk authorities to ensure the defence of the rights of the more than 300 000 portuguese citizens to live and work in the country, such as the right of residence, equal treatment, access to public health care and education services, social security benefits, family reunification, mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications.
mr president, mr prime minister of sweden, you have spoken a great deal here about respect for european values, respect for the rule of law, and i believe that the swedish social democratic party, the european socialists, has called for the romanian party to be suspended from the pse. if that is the case, i congratulate you, but i would like you to convince the european socialists who are condemning the romanian, slovak and maltese parties, three parties in the government of three states which today are calling into question the rule of law. and now, as a portuguese, i would like to say to prime minister costa of my country and his candidate for the european elections, pedro marques, that if they are in favour of european values, they should make a clear condemnation of the romanian party, the slovak party and the maltese party and the three prime ministers who are in these governments. the defence of european values is not a matter of applying double standards, one for countries like poland and hungary and then another for countries where our party is in power.
mr president, my congratulations to the prime minister, and my thanks for your reminding us of the need to keep a moral compass for integrity, for the fight against corruption, as a central question for credibility – even in our own political family, and starting with our political family. i thank you for your initiative on romania. but let me ask you, if we are indeed to fight organised crime and criminality that is taking advantage of the system, do we not need to indeed move away from unanimity on taxation? because they are taking advantage of this blocking system to actually exploit offshores, inside and outside the european union. indeed they divert the money that is so needed for public services to our taxpayers. this is a crucial question and we want leadership from you on that.
mr president, the creation of the integrated gas market is a cornerstone of the european union's project to create an energy union and this report takes this important process a step further by removing barriers to cross-border trade and applying the same rules to trade outside the european union as those applied internally. but let's be clear. energy independence in a fluid market is essential for competitiveness and security in the european union, but independence must create the conditions for interdependence and fair trade, fostering peace and good relations between peoples. it was in this spirit that i made the proposal for a natural gas fuelling station for transatlantic ships in the azores when i was rapporteur for that opinion, and also made the proposals for strengthening interconnections as shadow rapporteur for the e-government opinion. this is the time to 'give gas' to this directive and these measures to bring independence, peace and progress.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr millán mon has rightly mentioned the importance of supporting the renewal of the fleet which has been blocked for almost two decades. it is true that from this point of view this report falls short of what was possible and desirable. i said here, and we agree, that it would be good if you did not limit yourself any further to what is in the report, but what i wanted to ask you is whether you and your group are prepared to support proposals which go in the opposite direction, namely to allow us to go more clearly beyond what is provided for in the fleet renewal plan, by removing a blockage which has existed for almost two decades and which is extremely harmful and even absurd.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs involved in this document for their commitment and dedication. it has been a difficult task, but i hope that tomorrow we will have a balanced mandate for the negotiations with the council. a lot of conflicting information and conflicting views have been circulating in the last few days about what the outcome of the vote in the plenary will be and what the priorities of this parliament are for the fund. the debate has been even more heated by the european pre-election period in which we find ourselves. it should be borne in mind that the emff aims to support the achievement of the environmental, but also economic, social and employment objectives of the common fisheries policy, to promote the implementation of the union's maritime policy and to support the union's international commitments in the field of ocean governance. in other words, we must look at this fund from all angles and with balanced support so that all the objectives are achieved. funds like the emff are important for the blue economy, but they have to be channelled to those who need them and support the sustainable development of the environment, society, the economy and communities. we cannot subsidize for subsidies, but there are situations in which support is crucial for activities to be competitive and to overcome specific constraints, in particular, among others, in areas of increased difficulty such as the outermost regions of europe. in tomorrow's vote we must take into account that this fund will not only enable fishermen to continue to adapt to the measures laid down in the common fisheries policy and contribute to its objectives, but also to improve knowledge, to improve the management of the sea, not to mention the protection of nature or the promotion of emerging activities in the blue economy. the distribution of funds must be balanced and weighed without thinking of this fund as being intended for one pillar only to the detriment of the others. sustainability is a whole, not just a part, and one of the pillars is the fishermen, the most important. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to ask mr serrão santos if he has any idea of the impact that the increased difficulties, the increased restrictions on the mobilisation of support for temporary stops, for example the so-called biological stops, may have on the portuguese fishing fleet, and if he is willing to support our amendments and remove some of these restrictions, allowing, as has happened in recent years, at least in identical forms, that support to continue to be granted.
the commission has already given a reply under the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i am, mr joão ferreira, i am fully aware of these difficulties and that support must be found and maintained within the framework of the european fisheries and maritime fund to support the constraints that are currently being experienced in some fisheries sectors and that are not only linked, in fact, to the impacts of the fisheries themselves, but also to the issues of climate change, stock migration and recruitment problems that are affecting fishing communities, and they must be seen in this context.
mr president, commissioner, the current regulation on the maritime and fisheries fund is completely out of step with the reality and needs of the sector. this explains their very low implementation rates and the very low number of projects financed. this proposal for a regulation should help to change this. unfortunately, we fear that this will not happen. it is almost two decades since the absurd and incomprehensible blockade on the renewal and upgrading of the fleet was put in place. how many more years are we going to keep this blockade? we stress that this support for renewal is not incompatible with the good conservation of resources. on the contrary, it can help to preserve it well. instead of solving problems, this proposal seems to be more concerned with creating new ones. this is the case, as i have already mentioned, of the added difficulties in mobilising support in the event of temporary stops, for example, biological stops. we have tabled amendments which we hope will help to solve these problems. we leave them to your consideration and hope to gather your support. we are convinced that the proposal from the committee on fisheries can be improved further, for example by also looking at the problem of incomes and the way the sector is marketed, with measures that help to improve the first selling price, benefit fishermen, improve remuneration for their work and promote a fairer distribution of value added along the chain. that is also the aim of some of the proposals we have put forward and i hope that they will be supported by you tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, but first of all i would like to congratulate mr gabriel mato on the effort he has made in developing all the work with other colleagues on the emff and also to tell him that it is with great satisfaction, with great satisfaction, that we see here the importance of the outermost regions being recognised, with a specific chapter for the outermost regions being included here. we all know the difficulties we have had throughout the process, but i think we have come to a proposal which is a very positive compromise. it is therefore also worth highlighting the possibility of renewing the craft fleets, which will allow the sector to be modernised and will allow us to achieve what we want: to make it a profitable sector, but also to make it more sustainable, safer and more attractive to young people. we want to bring more young people into this sector, the outermost regions also want to have and give this opportunity to the youngest to be included in this sector with new opportunities. but it is not enough to demand european policies, to demand better and fairer financing, we must also not waste it. and it is with some embarrassment that i see in my country, portugal, the government of the republic, which has done little in this particular sector, has been divesting from the sea area and has not supported what should be the development of a sector so important for our country. finally, i cannot but criticize the commission's lack of ambition in relation to posei fisheries. we would like to return to posei fisheries in a more structured way and with a more effective application. if we want to be closer to the citizens, we have specific areas in these funds to demonstrate the union's solidarity with our member states and the outermost regions.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr mato for his extraordinary work in defending the fisheries sector in general and the interests of the outermost regions in particular. we believe that the sustainability of fisheries must combine the protection of species with the social protection of the operators in the sector, and that it is not acceptable for fishermen to bring home only 5 euros after a day's work. this means working on the value chain, making it more balanced, with a fair remuneration for fishermen, which can only be achieved if we can enhance the added value of fish in a quality logic and not by increasing the quantity of what is caught. and here the emff plays a crucial role, and the possibility of investing in vessels is important, not with the aim of increasing fishing effort, but of providing fishermen and ship owners with the conditions for modernisation, technological improvements and innovation so that they can contribute to the value of what they fish and to better safety conditions. i would like to emphasize that small-scale and sustainable fishing cannot be the fishery of the poor, but on the contrary, it must be valued by consumers and properly remunerated. that is why the investment proposal we are presenting is all the more important for the outermost regions, which are characterised by the environmental sustainability of their fisheries, which, together with the problems of remoteness, difficult climate and difficult access to the markets identified in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, justifies, as provided for in article 349 thereof, specific measures for these regions, which in this case means the re-establishment of the fisheries posei, which i have insistently advocated during this legislature and whose loss of autonomy proved catastrophic at the beginning of this multiannual financial framework. i call on the commission to review this fundamental point for fishermen in the outermost regions, such as the azores, where i come from.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i must begin by praising the work of everyone involved in the negotiations and in particular i would like to thank and commend the efforts of my colleague and friend clara aguilera. i have followed closely the efforts she has made as rapporteur to reach a balanced final document which even several interested sectors are calling for to be adopted. the final outcome of this multiannual plan demonstrates that it is possible to take positive steps towards a common objective, even when there are distant visions among stakeholders. this requires not only the commitment of all involved, but also finding solutions to overcome more difficult negotiating positions - basically, thinking outside the box. i am pleased to see that almost all the multiannual plans foreseen in the last revision of the common fisheries policy have been completed. now, at regional level, work needs to be done among member states and among regional advisory councils to come up with specific management and conservation measures that help to meet the objectives of the common fisheries policy. i call on you to vote in favour tomorrow and thus contribute to this further step towards making the sustainability of demersal fisheries resources and fishing communities in this mediterranean region a success.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, schengen and freedom of movement are the concrete expression of a people's europe, the success of the european project which our citizens value most. we know that there are difficulties and obstacles and this regulation (which i hope we will adopt tomorrow) helps to reduce them and to improve mobility and freedom of movement. i come from a country of immigrants, portugal, and i know how important it is that the citizen's card is recognised in other european countries. the fact is that even today many portuguese people face obstacles in accessing basic services in other member states because of the non-conforming format of our citizen's card. with this regulation we must make life easier for all europeans by removing unnecessary obstacles to the exercise of their rights. a portuguese citizen card will be valid and recognised anywhere in the european union. but we will also bring the visual aspect of identity cards closer together, in particular by including the european union flag next to the country reference. we are expressing the complementarity of european citizenship. last but not least, we've enhanced the security features. among many others, all cards will have the fingerprints of their holder. some, in the pre-election climate, will give in to the temptation to exploit this issue by inventing problems and fears. but we can't gamble with everyone's safety. by including fingerprints, we are taking an unprecedented step in the fight against identity theft, in the fight against human trafficking, in protecting our children. and don't tell me that the problem is the creation of a biometric database of all europeans. the regulation expressly prohibits the creation of a database containing these elements. mr president, the adoption of this regulation means that we will be able to extend the freedom of movement, better protect everyone and strengthen european citizenship. this is what the europeans expect of us! we must also thank and congratulate mr deprez on the exceptional work he has done and the agreement he has reached. thank you, gerard.
madam president, i would like to stress at the outset that, after hearing what has been said here and the various parties, i will vote in favour of this proposal because i understand that it will not compete with national systems. it will open the door to people who have saved up money to have a new system, a complementary system, not competitive with national systems but complementary. this is not for everyone, nor does it call into question the national systems which can continue to operate under the universal compulsory model for everyone. this is for those people who now have some savings, some savings, and who invest it sometimes in bad investments and in bad products and who can now invest a little bit better in their future. i therefore think that this proposal is a good one and is precisely intended to complement and not compete with the national systems.
madam president, commissioner, if we really want a more social europe, then this europe must respond to the new demands of the new society. and what is this society? it's a society where families have their children later and later, where women are more and more, well, active in the workplace, where fathers, men, are also demanding their rights to fatherhood, and very well. what we found was that in our europe we had a great divergence between the rights of men and women, that in fact they are not in agreement with these family needs, that couples in fact have difficulty in accompanying their children, not only when they are born but also at school age when the needs of the children do not coincide with the work needs of companies. this has terrible consequences for the declining birth rate and the ageing of our europe, as we all know. on the other hand, this generation that has children later and later is also a sandwich generation because they are not only having to take care of their children, but also have to take care of their parents, and aging in europe brings us this increased responsibility. our elderly must be cared for and must be able to stay at home with greater stability. and their children, who are of working age, have no rights to work in the sense of being able to accompany their parents properly. that is why we urgently need to make an evolution in this family follow-up. unfortunately, we have not gone as far as i have proposed, but i am sure that this is indeed the challenge of the social europe of the future.
mr president, this proposal for a directive is an example of social regression and progress in labour exploitation. the definition of non-compulsory leave periods, the definition of pay on the basis of sickness benefits, paternity leave, the non-definition of pay on parental leave or the absence of pay on carers' leave are examples which would be enough to embarrass those who propose or advocate them. conditionalities are added to the needs of the employer and to factors such as working time or type of relationship before the leave application, in formulations that may exclude from access to leave, for example, temporary workers. this directive does not defend parents, it defends employers who will determine when, how and whether workers can enjoy their rights. we have put forward proposals that would raise social rights and labour protection from extending leave to payment of 100% of the reference wage, from protecting and promoting breastfeeding and nursing mothers to promoting public policies and services, proposals which were rejected by the european parliament, reasons which lead us to reject this proposal.
the president of the united states' declarations to recognize the golan heights as israeli territory - a unilateral declaration - and the declaration by the newly elected prime minister of israel, benjamin netanyahu, to annex territories in the west bank are two declarations and two intentions that call into question the middle east peace process. they not only call into question the middle east peace process, but they violate international law and the very agreements between the european union and the state of israel. in this connection, we think it is urgent to discuss and find out what the european union's position is and we therefore ask that mrs federica mogherini, in her capacity as vice-president and high representative, make a statement following the debate on libya and that we all discuss all these unacceptable intentions, both of the president of the united states and of the newly re-elected prime minister of israel.
president. - mr president, omar al-bashir has been the leader of a repressive and authoritarian regime in sudan for thirty years. a regime which has led to the persecution of political leaders, journalists and social movements and which has imposed severe austerity measures on the sudanese people in recent years. it is a country under external intervention with economic and financial sanctions, with which the european union has been cooperating, including on migration. in recent months there has been a strong popular mobilization against the government of omar al-bashir, which led to a military coup last thursday and which led to the removal of this dictator. the sudanese people are still in the streets demanding the withdrawal of this military government and the holding of elections. we now understand that this is a relevant matter, which should be discussed in this house, and we therefore ask for support for its inclusion in the agenda.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, we would like to propose that the balas report should be discussed as the first item on wednesday, because we consider that this concern is very important. it is to ensure access to social protection to all european citizens in a situation of mobility across european space. this is an area where european rules are outdated. the balas report has undertaken a very important updating of these rules. this is very good progress from the european parliament as a whole. it is true that the council has not yet been able to reach a united position, but if we discuss and vote as first reading, this parliament can secure the progress we got in this area. this is very important for european citizens. that’s why we propose the item as the first one to be addressed on wednesday.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. one billion euros, madam president, i repeat, one billion euros, is the amount of tax fraud and tax evasion. the equivalent of six times the budget of the european union. the equivalent of the sum of the budgets for health and education in the portuguese case, and these numbers are in the public domain thanks to whistleblowers who are now being persecuted, who are facing the possibility of extradition, like julian assange, or who have faced death themselves, like journalist daphne galizia in malta. as rapporteur for this directive, i consider it to be a very important step forward, but it is still insufficient in this respect. i will continue to work to ensure that whistleblowers are kept completely anonymous and are fully protected, because, in fact, to date, only whistleblowers have been convicted, which is a good indication of the seriousness of the situation, and the fact that multinationals are finally left with impunity which must be reversed, and this directive is indeed a step in that direction.
madam president, madam commissioner, do we all agree with the principle that those who act in the common interest deserve protection? if so, it is because we agree that the defence of the general interest of the community, the common interest, calls for everyone without exception. but if that's the case, why can't we all agree that whistleblowers, if they're acting for the benefit of everyone, deserve protection? no one questions the fact that a worker can report a violation of labour rights to the labour protection authority. what then distinguishes this worker from another who discovers, for example, that his company is evading taxes? obviously, not everything is worth it in the name of the common interest. the application of this principle requires a serious and balanced approach, which reconciles the various apparently conflicting principles. the directive we are discussing today is balanced and reasonable and is aimed primarily at those who, in the context of an employment relationship, encounter illegalities. the text strikes a delicate balance between the duty to report and the protection of state interests, not interfering with national internal security, between the creation of internal channels for the protection of whistleblowers and the financial impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, between freedom of expression and the need for confidentiality. madam president, this is a reasonable text, which deserves our support and which defends the common interest.
madam president, this directive is about transparency and integrity in the european union, because whistleblowers are essential to dismantle the crime that infiltrates companies and captures administrations, governments and even law enforcement agencies. it complements article 38 of the fourth anti-money laundering and terrorist financing directive, which already obliges member states to create protection mechanisms, even for whistleblowers without a direct employment relationship with the instrumentalised organisations. whistleblowers must be given special protection in the committees of inquiry of the european parliament. we have seen the murder of daphne caruana galizia, of jan kuciak, we have seen how antoine deltour was convicted for revealing the luxleaks scandal, we have seen the judicial persecution that almost destroyed rudolf elmer in switzerland and, in my country, portugal, we have today arrested the young rui pinto, the main source of football leaks, because a mafia fund based in malta, clubs, lawyers and obscure interests seem to be able to move justice more than the obligation to go after criminals and confiscate the proceeds of crime. when will the public prosecutor's office and the tax authorities ask rui pinto to cooperate in defending the public interest and recovering assets in portugal, as other european countries have already done? rui pinto should be protected as a whistleblower. thank you, madam commissioner, thank you to virginie rozière and to all the colleagues who have worked on this directive.
madam president, i voted here in this parliament for romania to join the eu and fought those who wanted to keep romania out, and then the ransom because of the moratorium on the international adoption of children. i backed all those in romania who fought the immoral and corrupt business of exporting romanian children, most were from the psd. fifteen years later i am appalled that the eu is under a romanian presidency which does not even bother to be here today, which is captured by a psd leader, liviu dragnea, whom the european anti-fraud office (olaf) identifies as having created a criminal organisation to steal millions in eu funds. as a socialist, i have higher demands from my own political family and that is why i have not been shy in criticising what’s going on in romania, and i am relieved to see that, finally, my group has had the courage to suspend the romanian psd while this criminal capture persists. as commissioner jourová said, this is about the rule of law, not only in romania but in the eu. and if you want to back all these romanian citizens who braved the harsh winter demanding, indeed, the rule of law, then we have to back them in the fight against corruption.
madam president, this new banking regulation package is very important. the aim is to strengthen the european financial system so that it is resilient to shocks, trustworthy and no longer a permanent threat to depositors and taxpayers. european rules on bank recovery and resolution are now meeting the highest international standards and banks, especially the largest ones, will have to increase their capital by strengthening their capacity to bear losses. these rules will only come into force after a transitional period, which will allow banks to adapt to the new requirements without affecting their ability to finance the real economy. i would like to thank the rapporteurs gunnar hökmark and peter simon for the good work and cooperation we have had in these risk reduction measures in the banking sector. it is now time to move forward with risk sharing, without which there will be no banking union worthy of the name.
madam president, it's been over a decade since the financial crisis of 2008. four billion euros were spent from public funds to recapitalise the banks. in portugal it was 16 billion euros, ten percent of gdp. after 11 years of crisis, after dozens of regulations, of directives, the question is: what concrete progress has been made? because in portugal we are puzzled why the tap is still open. eur 2 billion was spent on the new bank in 2018 and 2019, and in the current government stability programme a further eur 2,15 billion is planned for 2020 and 2021. let us be clear, these directives, these regulations are just cosmetics. what is really required is public control over the financial system to put the banks at the service of the economy and not the economy at the service of the banks, as is clearly the case.
madam president, i would like to say that i am pleased to see that the european council and the european institutions have shown flexibility with the united kingdom as i asked for here. i am also pleased to see that the united kingdom is prepared to hold european elections and that there is therefore some possibility that the british people will decide in the future to remain in the european union. in any case, i want to make it clear: this decision continues to create enormous instability in people, in companies, i would say in states in general. and so i would very much ask the european commission and the national governments to do everything in their power to give hope, to give certainty to the people who are suffering from this indecision caused by the british parliament and its decisions.
madam president, we are all very sad for france and for humanity, because notre dame was built by humanity and it is humanity that will rebuild it. i would like to say that i regret that the council has not put on the agenda for britain the obligation to go for a people's vote. it's the way, the democratic way, to sort out the mess. it is the way to prevent indeed that britain will get out of the european union and i trust that that message will now be given to the british people, to the british parties, from all those responsible in eu governments and that we will indeed as well address the causes of the alienation felt by many citizens that is not just behind brexit, but as well the divorce of many of our citizens from this union that we absolutely need to reform and rebuild.
in writing. the debate on the conclusions of the european council of 10 april on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu was marked by a deep sense of sadness following the fire that destroyed notre dame cathedral in paris the day before. the european council's commitment to its reconstruction as a shared task for all eu member states shows the political, economic, social and cultural strength of the partnership. a partnership that the united kingdom has shown intent to leave after a referendum. the eu has robustly defined an exit framework with an agreement that the uk institutions have so far failed to approve or propose an alternative. the extension of the exit time to 31 october was another manifestation of the eu's goodwill. if you accept the deal by may 22, the uk will leave the eu. if it does not, then the uk should hold european elections on schedule and its meps should retain full office until the time of eventual withdrawal. the eu cannot be left out of the british loop. the rules are set, the british have to decide.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, i would like first of all to express my personal condolences to the families and friends of the hundreds of victims in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe. definitely our thoughts are with the millions of people affected by this devastating disaster. i have said it many times in this room: europe is about solidarity. europe is about solidarity not only inside europe, but also outside europe. so we stood by the side of all three countries, with emergency funding, with in—kind assistance, and with experts on the ground. allow me to summarise our response, our european response, to this catastrophe. first, funding. just a few hours after the landfall of the cyclone, we released an immediate package of assistance of eur 3.5 million, to support access with air services to cut-off areas and hard-to-reach communities and for immediate shelter, water and sanitation. on 9 april, we mobilised an additional eur 12 million in humanitarian assistance for the three countries to provide shelter, water and sanitation, food, health and psychosocial support. this brings the total eu humanitarian assistance to over eur 15 million. second, in—kind assistance. with separate funding of eur 4 million we helped to deploy through our excellent instrument – the eu civil protection mechanism (ucpm) – relief items and in—kind assistance offered by nine eu member states: portugal, spain, france, austria, uk, luxembourg, germany, italy, and denmark. i am really grateful to these countries. in parallel, we produced and shared 57 copernicus satellite maps upon the request of mozambique, zimbabwe and malawi. third point, on expert teams. we immediately deployed eight eu humanitarian, epidemiology and hydrology experts to the ground, to conduct assessments and support the response in the three countries, including to the recent cholera outbreak, unfortunately. in addition, a civil protection team of 13 people was deployed on 23 march via the eu civil protection mechanism, and of course we also helped to deploy expert teams from our member states. all of them are still in mozambique as we speak and are helping to save lives on the ground. allow me to make a nominal reference to these teams because i strongly believe we have to show to our people that our teams can do excellent work on the ground. as i said, they are still in mozambique because they are real heroes on the ground. portugal sent one search and rescue and one medical team. luxembourg sent a satellite communication team to help with connectivity in affected areas. germany and denmark sent a team to help with water purification – very important especially because of the cholera outbreak. italy, spain and germany sent emergency medical teams and equipment, also very important because of the problem of cholera and maybe other diseases. so it is thanks to resceu, our new system to fight against natural disasters, that we can help decisively the member states to deploy assistance inside and outside the european union. and of course help save more lives as our campaign inside europe. since day one, my team and i are monitoring the situation in the three affected countries around the clock, 24/7. through our emergency response coordination centre (ercc) – you will know about this – in brussels and of course through our experts on the ground. we will continue to lead the international support efforts to the three countries, and you can rest assured that the european union will do its best, our best, to support the longer-term reconstruction needs in the three affected countries.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for giving me the time to present our points. i would like to thank the honourable members for inviting me to address this important topic today. disasters call for solidarity, for acting together in support of those in need. disasters teach us valuable lessons. we should translate them into life lessons of strength and resilience. the tropical cyclone idai and the subsequent flooding we witnessed in recent weeks have brought enormous destruction and human losses to southern africa. nearly three million people have been affected in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe, and almost 1 000 people have lost their lives. many are still missing. in mozambique alone, 240 000 houses have been destroyed, damaged or flooded, more than 160 000 people have been internally displaced, and over 4 000 cholera cases have been have been reported. malaria is on the rise. in malawi, the cyclone and the floods have destroyed many fields of recently planted crops. the potential loss of harvest will have a severe impact on the livelihoods of small—scale farmers who depend on agricultural production. women and children are heavily affected. in zimbabwe, the floods aggravated an existing severe humanitarian crisis caused by drought and a poor harvest. food insecurity and malnutrition, which were already at alarming levels, risk worsening further. in all three countries, the humanitarian needs are enormous. they include food, drinking water, shelter, health and nutrition, as well as education, protection and logistics. the mozambique humanitarian response plan and the zimbabwe flash appeal are asking for a total of usd 342 million. currently only 23% has been funded so more efforts will be needed. as you know, the eu and the member states mobilised quickly in response to these natural disasters. humanitarian and civil protection assistance has been offered by the commission and the member states in support of the affected countries. in support of the eu response to this disaster, the presidency of the council took the necessary actions to raise awareness on the humanitarian and funding needs by opening a monitoring page on the eu’s integrated political crisis response arrangements (ipcr) web platform. in this respect, we moved the ipcr into monitoring mode. this has facilitated a constant exchange of information between the member states, the commission, the european external action service (eeas) and the relevant eu agency on the evolving situation, the humanitarian needs and the eu response. we included the disaster caused by the tropical cyclone idai on the agenda of the relevant council working parties to facilitate in—depth discussions among member states and the commission. we welcome the fact that parliament’s committee on development (deve) is also interested in discussing the situation. our intensive exchanges through various channels have shown that the eu and its member states were quick to react in response to this disaster. member states have contributed extensively by providing humanitarian – and that means more than eur 60 million – and civil protection assistance in kind, including shelters, food and power generators, as well as the deployment of water purification, satellite communication, medical emergency teams, flood rescue and relief modules, experts all provided through the eu civil protection mechanism. a european civil protection team led by a romanian expert has been deployed to mozambique since 23 march 2019 in order to assess the needs and ensure coordination and distribution of the aid provided by member states. there is very good cooperation and coordination on the ground. a number of member states also made available military assets, such as ships, helicopters and aircraft for logistics and transport. member states have allocated substantial amounts of funding to the humanitarian response. thus, the necessary services are currently being contracted and implemented. we welcome the fact that the commission has also allocated more than eur 50 million euros for humanitarian support. this brings us to the importance of implementation. our close consultations with member states and the commission have shown that protection must be at the heart of our emergency response. many families have been separated. women and children are disproportionately affected by displacement, and women and girls are particularly vulnerable to gender—based violence and sexual exploitation. we also need to ensure that education can resume as soon as possible for thousands of children affected by the crisis. lastly, we should consider using cash assistance wherever the circumstances allow for it. this is our analysis of the immediate needs and the emergency response. a post-disaster needs assessment will indicate the necessary action to address the long-term recovery needs. i now look forward to hearing your views and the information that the commission will provide.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, my first word goes, of course, to the victims of this disaster caused by cyclone idai in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe, and, in making this statement, to the people who were already living very badly, in great poverty and suffering, of course that this is a tragedy which has consequences, i would say, very, very serious for all these families, for all these people. i would like to make three points: firstly, contrary to what has been said here, the european union's reaction was delayed. the european union has been slow to react and this is unacceptable. i would not do so with other countries, but as we are talking about africa and underdeveloped africa, the european union reacted slowly at first. you should have done more, you offered little at first, now you're responding well, but you failed in your initial response. secondly, i would like to say that the psd proposal, which has in fact scheduled this debate for the european civil protection mechanism, shows that it was necessary, that we have to strengthen it further and that it is now working well. finally, i hope that this is not just an episode and that in the recovery the european union will be able to give a response with more readiness and more consistency than it did in the early days, in the early days, when it was weak, it was fragile and it was timid, and if it were not for the portuguese, it would have been even slower.
the aid that the european union has mobilised to respond to the catastrophe caused by cyclone idai and the subsequent floods in mozambique, zimbabwe and malawi is a drop in the ocean of needs facing these countries and their populations. the needs in health care, food, housing, communications, transport, logistics and various infrastructures, civil protection, among others, are immense. in the face of these, the 15 million euros and the team of eleven, just eleven, experts mobilised by the european union fall far short of what is possible and necessary. they are a drop in the ocean of possibilities for the european union which fall far short of what several countries in the international community have already mobilized. in addition to emergency aid, which must be increased without delay, there is also the need to think about the subsequent phases, the necessary reinforcement and possible reprogramming of the european development fund, various sectoral support measures and measures such as the more than fair cancellation of the debt.
madam president, first of all, a word to the families of the victims, a word of friendship also to all the affected populations and above all to the mozambican people. we have timely strengthened the new civil protection mechanism, but it is clear that further strengthening is still needed. the european union is solidary internally and externally, but it is a solidarity which must always be strengthened, especially because climate change and its effects will be increasingly severe. and at the moment, despite the aid that has been given, we need more aid, more resources on the ground. there are over a million children who are in a dramatic and emergency situation, which means that we need to act quickly. and after all this, it is still necessary not to forget the reconstruction. the european union must also take part in this and must increase the amounts for the affected territories, and in particular for mozambique, by means of development aid from the european development fund, for example.
madam president, tropical cyclone idai first impacted mozambique on the night of 14 march 2019, with torrential rains and strong winds, then heading towards zimbabwe and causing massive flooding in malawi. the cyclone left a trail of devastation in its wake. in addition to thousands of displaced people, it destroyed infrastructure and left several regions of mozambique completely vulnerable and dependent on international aid. more than a thousand people were killed in the three countries, 60% of them in mozambique, and many thousands were injured. cholera problems have now begun to cause new casualties, mainly in mozambique. there's an unknown number missing. the european union, as the commissioner said, has already provided financial aid of eur 15 million. at the request of mozambique, the european union civil protection mechanism was also activated. the tenders received came mainly from portugal, but also from austria, germany, denmark, spain, france, italy, luxembourg and the united kingdom. we must continue to help the people affected and bear the consequences of what has happened for the future. this is very important, to take consequences for the future. international cooperation in disaster response and prevention is essential. climate change is a reality that doesn't measure gdp, geography, level of development, wealth or attitude. they are a cross-cutting scourge which must be tackled with effective measures to enable the paris agreement to be implemented and to preserve what is still possible of our planet. my sincere condolences and my full association with the mozambican families of malawi and zimbabwe.
madam president, commissioner, first of all a word to the victims of this cyclone idai. a month after cyclone idai devastated parts of mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe, killing hundreds, thousands of people whose homes and crops were destroyed remain in crowded idp camps, without access to essential water, sanitation and health services and now subject to cholera, typhoid and malaria epidemics. among the affected population are 1.6 million children who, in addition to the threat of these outbreaks, are now also vulnerable to exploitation and labour and sexual abuse. the european union, which has not only activated its civil protection mechanism, albeit belatedly, but has also made available more than 15 million euros in humanitarian aid to respond to this catastrophe, must now also have the political will to make this solidarity compatible with the implementation of the much-talked-about marshall plan for africa, which also focuses on an ecological transition model that makes it possible to make the violence of these extreme natural phenomena the exception, not the rule. european solidarity must be more rapid and more comprehensive. it is not enough to create mechanisms which then do not serve the purposes for which they were created.
solidarity with the victims of cyclone idai in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe yes, but in mozambique we must understand that misgovernment and corruption are at all levels, including the highest political level, the worst enemy of the people trying to recover from the devastation and diseases left by idai. they are the enemy that the european union and all donor countries must help to combat so that the people of mozambique are not harmed any more, despite the solidarity and emergency aid that was not, and should not have been, bargained for. corruption and impunity are what explain why the mozambican authorities, including, incredibly, the pgr, have not accepted the offers of help from the portuguese police and pgr to locate the portuguese businessman américo sebastião, kidnapped by government forces almost three years ago in the province of sofala. corruption and impunity are what explain the murder of french constitutionalist gilles cistac and the murders, torture, kidnappings and assaults on journalists and other courageous mozambicans who dare to expose and criticize the hidden and the overt debts that are sinking mozambique. we will not help the people of mozambique if we turn a blind eye to the corruption and impunity that rule this brotherly country and hinder the recovery of its sacrificed people from climate disasters such as cyclone idai and other disasters.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you so much again for this opportunity and this discussion. it is helpful to all of us and i am grateful for your sensitivity on this issue. we should not allow these disasters to be forgotten. the people in these countries – mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe – need our help, and i totally agree with my dear colleague josé manuel fernandes and others about their proposal that we need to continue our support through development aid and to see real funding for reconstruction. as i said, the european union stands ready to continue its support towards the people affected by this cyclone through our humanitarian and civil protection and development tools. cyclones, floods and disease outbreaks will continue to affect the southern africa and indian ocean region. climate change is here. it is not fake news, as i have said time and again. i totally agree with my dear colleague here from the greens and my dear friend enrique guerrero salom: yes, we have to deal with this problem and i am really proud because the european union is leading by example in this field, especially because we are the most important factor to implement the paris agreement. sorry, dear colleague, but i totally disagree with you: the european union started its support to mozambique from the beginning of the cyclone. we can go to our emergency centre in order to see the programme about our support. i am very proud of this centre, because when we had the request we started immediately. all un agencies, all local ngos and international organisations had already recognised european support to mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe. so thank you so much for this important debate. the facts speak for themselves.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this discussion on this urgent topic. the eu and its member states are at the forefront of this international emergency response. the recovery and reconstruction phase will last far beyond our presidency. when our foreign minister spoke to the committee on development in january, he explained that disaster risk reduction and the nexus between humanitarian and development assistance are the two key priorities of the romanian presidency in the field of humanitarian aid. the scale of the disaster we are witnessing in southern africa is a painful reminder that there is much work to be done in both of these fields. we need to ensure that our emergency response is complemented by our development cooperation efforts in southern africa. when the emergency phase is over we will need to help the affected countries build back better and improve their resilience and preparedness for future shocks. as much as we would wish otherwise, the scale of climate—related hazard is only set to increase in the future. let us all work together to ensure that the damage and loss of lives this could cause may nevertheless get smaller and smaller.
in writing. we welcome the fact that this debate is taking place, which is only too late. the eu's aid to respond to the catastrophic floods caused by cyclone idai in mozambique, zimbabwe and malawi is a drop in the bucket of needs facing these countries and their people. the needs in health care, food, housing, communications, transport, logistics and more are immense and, in the face of these, the 15 million euros and the team of eleven (only eleven!) experts sent by the eu fall far short of what is possible and necessary. they fall short of what several countries in the international community have already mobilized. cuba alone, for example, with immeasurably less resources than the eu (but immeasurably more in attitude and example), sent more than 40 doctors, adding to the 372 health professionals it already had on the ground. the united nations, through unicef, has already warned in particular of the particularly worrying situation of children. in addition to emergency aid, which must be increased without delay, there is also the need to think about the subsequent phases, the necessary reinforcement and possible reprogramming of the european development fund, various sectoral support measures and measures such as, more than just, debt cancellation.
madam president, madam high representative, the recent military escalation in libya, combined with the social tensions in algeria and morocco, has had serious economic, humanitarian and security consequences for europe, is fuelling a new migration exodus towards our continent and is undermining the arguments of those who claim that libya is a safe country for the return of migrants rescued in the mediterranean. the european union, which announced this month €6 million in humanitarian aid for libya, cannot allow the powerful economic interests of some of its member states in that country to prevent a joint position calling on the warring parties in tobruk and tripoli to cease armed conflict immediately, respect the humanitarian truce in the capital and return to the negotiating table to establish a genuine executive of national unity that can guarantee peace and stability for all libyans. basically, as the high representative has already said here, to give the libyans a chance so that they can collectively decide their future.
in writing. – the eu cannot excuse itself on what libya became. lack of europe, absence of the eu, played into the hands of the member states, entering in new and old rivalries for oil, arms and influence, after the fall of gaddafi. likewise un, the eu neglected the need for ssr/ddr to ensure that any libyan governance would be controlling a national chain armed command. pm ali zeidan came to beg us that help in 2013, as he also begged nato, to no avail. instead, eu ms, led by italy, choose to fabricate a fake ‘libyan coast guard’ which is no more than a militia torturing migrants and refugees to keep the human trafficking supply flourishing. no wonder that haftar, backed by egypt, the uae, saudi arabia but also france just dared to disrupt the un-organised national conference in ghadames leading to so much bloodshed and suffering in tripoli. no wonder that, under haftar, isis, al-qaeda, the makdali and other terrorist groups will gain ground for sanctuary in libya. they will come to haunt us, as much as they already haunt the people of libya. then, we all will deeply regret that there was no eu to act and help libya.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, it is true that none of these situations are new, but it is also true that we have seen an escalation which is increasingly putting the peace process in the middle east in question. it is true that the annexation of palestinian territories is already taking place, but it is also true that it is now being declared by the israeli prime minister. and the question is very simple. i have no doubt about your position, mrs mogherini, but we have other instruments and, having recognized the problem as it exists, what are we going to do? what are the consequences? because we have other instruments at our disposal, there are association agreements. do we suspend or not suspend the association agreements? the defence of the 1967 borders, the peace agreement, is it to be left to words and paper, or is it to be taken more seriously? that's the whole point. we are decimating a people and making a pact, even though that is not the official position of the european union. and that's where i want to end. mr preda, the day human rights are invoked as an electoral reason will be a very bad day for us. i don't know how you sleep with a clear conscience. i don't sleep and i think it's our duty to stand up for human rights whether they vote or not. you do have an electoral agenda. my agenda is human rights advocacy.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. fake news, interference and meddling in electoral processes are all fought through cybersecurity, but not only. i would like to emphasize just a few of the aspects which have not been mentioned, so as not to repeat what has already been said. i think that as long as we don't defend the right to information and protect journalists and journalism, we're creating spaces for easy, viral and unverified information on the networks, which everyone has much easier access to through social networks, to continue to proliferate. obviously, we have to fight internal manipulation as well, as has been mentioned here, but also in relation to facebook, i mean, if we continue to applaud mr. zuckerberg for changing facebook's privacy rules without stopping to think for a second about what it might do to make them even more similar to what is currently used in whatsapp, it only means that everything can get worse and more difficult for the people behind each of the campaigns. so we need, of course, cybersecurity solutions, but also actions that have to do with digital education, to protect journalism and more democracy.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner king, in the european elections in may the citizens will have to choose which europe they want to face the challenges of the future. and that choice has to be free. let's not be naive. there are those who want to destroy the european project. we have outside forces who want to undermine the union and who have allies inside. and that, as we saw in recent elections, they are willing to use all the weapons at their disposal, especially in the digital world. but let no one deceive himself by thinking that europeans are not aware of these threats. 73% of citizens are concerned about disinformation campaigns, 67% are concerned about the protection of their data and 55% are concerned about their freedom of public intervention online. it is these fears that we must address. we need to ensure the security of the infrastructure of our electoral systems by shielding them from any cyberattack. we must protect our citizens' data by requiring the highest standards of security from digital platforms. and we have to fight disinformation campaigns and fake news, fake news, by calling for the responsibility of traditional media and social media. freedom, democracy and the rule of law are more than values of the union. they are our identity. an identity that some want to destroy with new weapons. defending it is not a decision we have to make, it is an obligation we have to answer to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, which for too long has chosen the worst of options for dealing with the problem of international cyber threats by pretending that it does not exist, cannot now, after scandals such as cambridge analytica, ignore the impact of facebook and google algorithms on european democracies. nor is it the formation of public opinion, especially among young people, through the use of applications that automate and massify hate speech, strengthening eurosceptics and populists who want to paralyse the union from its centre. the risk of the upcoming european elections being manipulated by fake news, disinformation campaigns and cyber attacks is further amplified by the nefarious influence of countries outside the union, as shown by the russian funding of the live.eu campaign which led to the disaster of brexit, as our colleague has just mentioned. the proven interference of mr. putin in the 2017 french elections, or the suspicions of chinese espionage on fifth-generation mobile devices, just to name a few. since these cyber threats know no borders, only a joint eu approach, including information sharing among member states, will prevent the chinese cyber troops or the kremlin's hackers and trolls factories from undermining the credibility of europe's liberal democracies next may.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. mr president, the horizon europe programme will be the key instrument for creating jobs and economic growth, for strengthening the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises and for encouraging partnerships between universities, both in the union and in third countries, and this will in some way attract new talent and young researchers, thus strengthening the european research area and thus also preventing brain drain. however, in terms of scientific and technological development between the various regions, a more balanced geographical inclusion will be needed, particularly with regard to the outermost and least developed regions. i would like to stress once again that the distribution of resources, including for science, within the union should be more equitable. the priority will be to create and disseminate knowledge, both in terms of technology and skills, with solutions based on fundamental and applied research, but also considering the social sciences and humanities and the arts as noble forms of knowledge, otherwise we will render human genius sterile. those countries will also be more successful which, with their political leadership, believe in science and put it at the service of an enlightened and critical society.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the excellent work and the way in which they have integrated the proposals of the various parliamentary groups, and the commission and the council for the way in which they have negotiated this dossier to reach the agreement we have here today. i believe in inclusive science, which is equitable and collaborative between researchers and which is a driver of innovation. but i also know that there is no innovation without basic knowledge, there is no innovation without social sciences and humanities. we have reached a compromise, which is a compromise, which is not perfect, each and every one of us has fought for what we thought was fundamental to integrate into this compromise that is collective. i have spoken a lot about the social sciences and the humanities, about the rights of fellows who do research in european projects, about more equal access to funding, and i have supported these proposals with a proposal to have a target for research to combat climate change. the relevant point - and i will end here - is that i believe that this programme represents the best that the european union has at the moment, and for those who know me, you know very well what that means. the last, last word is to say that a large part of the men and women responsible for the success of this negotiation are hidden there in the back row, but we know very well who they are.
mr president, commissioner carlos moedas, as desirable as it is, we have seen that innovation does not always translate into proportional benefits. although technological leaps are based on innovation, it still takes time for them to be perfected and for all their potential risks to be assessed and mitigated. we cannot therefore accept that in the areas financed through horizon europe the principle of innovation should override the principle of precaution, not least because i believe that not everything is valid in the field of innovation, especially, commissioner, in areas where we need a paradigm shift, such as tobacco, the use of fossil fuels and certain chemicals in industrial and agricultural areas. we cannot protect by the principle of innovation what is no longer politically defensible. but this caution should not be seen as holding back innovation, because wherever the public interest is at stake, as in the case of health, there are already mechanisms in place to speed up market access for these innovative products. the precautionary principle is to be maintained, firstly because it is based on scientific reservations and a serious assessment of the risk/benefit and cost/benefit ratios, and secondly because it is also a source of impetus for research and development to find solutions that are proven safe and do not harm health or the environment.
mr president, this parliament is right to approve the programmes establishing and implementing horizon europe in conjunction with digital europe, which will also be voted on at this part-session. and a lot of it will be acquired. first, convergence, which combines competitiveness and cohesion and defines that the progress of each country or territory benefits the european union as a whole. second, inclusion and reducing asymmetries, which strengthens our internal capacity and projects our voice outward. thirdly, the strategic autonomy in networks which allows the union's global assertiveness potential to be derived from multiple capacities and competences developed in a decentralised manner. fourthly, the commitment of all projects to the code of ethics for the protection of values and rights shared in the european union. fifthly, the contribution of projects to combating climate change. and finally, perhaps most importantly, putting people at the centre of all research and innovation strategies. i congratulate the rapporteurs on all this. it is very important to vote on the programmes under consideration.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank and congratulate all those involved in the negotiations, and in particular the various rapporteurs, for their excellent work. i'm sorry i can't focus on the many positives, but i only have a minute. i must point out that the production of seafood and oceans is still not considered to be on the same level as agricultural or industrial production. despite the amendments made, the efsa management board still has no representative of fishery and aquaculture products. this is all the more important as almost 70% of these products that are consumed in the union are imported from third countries and we must ensure that they meet our high standards of production and food safety. and the oceans are being called upon to contribute to a healthier diet on a planet where obesity and a host of associated diseases have become the new stigma, with high financial costs and responsible for more deaths than hunger and malnutrition on a planetary scale.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr barón crespo, on behalf of the s&d group. only then can we ensure that europe protects those who stand for transparency and truth and those who want to express themselves in free and plural societies. with a trump administration that makes the media a target of its own pet, assange would never get a fair trial. the trial in the united states would be instrumental in the destruction of freedom of the press and speech, as organizations such as human rights watch and the aclu say. assange would risk being sentenced to death. just look at the plight of assange's source, chelsea manning, today, under torture in prison confinement. julian assange has made a decisive contribution to revealing the truth. it has exposed atrocities in iraq and afghanistan and other crimes in guantanamo and the secret prisons, and the rot, hypocrisy and criminality in successive american administrations and even in complicit governments, including in europe. i myself have benefited from the wikileaks revelations. the minister who accused me of deceiving when i handed over to the european parliament's inquiry committee the lists of torture flights by the cia and military that were authorized by portugal to and from guantanamo was exposed as a complete liar by wikileaks. but if julian assange faces the criminal charges against him in sweden, he must answer for those charges in swedish justice that offers guarantees of impartiality. it is important to say that we trust in the independence of the courts of the united kingdom and sweden, but at the same time we ask them not to give in to the pressure to extradite him to the united states. i do not discount, and i must say that it worries me, that a julian assange disturbed by seven years of being locked up in the embassy of ecuador, a country that eventually handed him over, in violation of the right of asylum granted, may have collaborated with the putin kleptocracy to interfere in the american elections and attack the democratic party, as special prosecutor muller may accuse. but it is up to the european courts in the member states of the european union to try assange and to ensure that he is brought to justice, and already protection as a whistleblower in line with the directive that we have just adopted today. protecting assange is affirming and protecting european values and principles, the guarantees of fundamental rights to those accused in justice, is giving hope to all those who risk their lives for truth, integrity and against the criminality that infiltrates and even captures governments. julian assange deserves that protection and deserves to enjoy all those fundamental rights in the european union. the speaker accepts to answer a question on a 'blue card' rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure
blue-card answer. – (inaudible) … we know that no european country should extradite to a country that has the death penalty. that’s exactly the case of the united states, i’m very sorry. indeed assange, if extradited to the united states, could face an accusation of spying, which would entail the death penalty. that’s a very strong reason – political and juridical – why he shouldn’t be extradited by a court, be it in the uk, in sweden or in your own country. (applause)
blue-card question. – i agree with my colleague kouloglou that, indeed, this is a political body and we are entitled to make a political judgment, and we are doing that, saying that there should be no extradition to the us. but, on the other hand, we are expecting that the courts – namely in the uk, that fortunately is still and will stay in the eu – are bound by the charter of fundamental rights and by the european union treaties. therefore, it’s on the basis of juridical legal grounds, and not political grounds, that a resolution is expected to prevent extradition to a country that still has capital punishment. do you agree, mr kouloglou?
as this is my last speech in the plenary, allow me, madam president, to make it in the context of the balance of priorities for the mandate, since this proposal for the coordination of social security systems is a good illustration of the social priorities we are advocating for the european union, where the top priority was the protection of the european social model which distinguishes us from the rest of the world, a model which protects the citizen at all stages, ensuring greater dignity, greater conditions of social equity, greater conditions of social convergence, in a convergence which is associated with growth, in a europe which takes advantage of mobility, of its diversity, in order to enhance the capacities of each citizen. mobility must be accompanied by greater social responsibility, so that we do not fall into situations where workers are exploited for their fragility. but europe, which calls for unity in terms of mobility, cannot then resort to nationalism in terms of protecting its citizens. we therefore call on the member states which use transnational european labour and expertise to assume their social responsibilities towards these workers and their families. we therefore advocate that social benefits be paid at the level of contributions of the member state in which the work was carried out. it is therefore necessary to ensure that workers have the same rights as nationals of the country where they work. freedom of movement must go hand in hand with fairness in the protection of a fairer, more equitable europe. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that it has been an honour to represent the portuguese people and to leave here the contribution to a more social europe.
madam president, this proposal, which some are trying to block, has a number of advances compared with the commission's proposal in guaranteeing the protection of workers' rights. but let us be clear: the coordination of social security systems can only take place if they exist to coordinate, while maintaining their public, universal and solidarity-based dimension, which ensures a redistributive character and fair and decent remuneration after a working life. this is not the path the european union wants to take, as became clear two weeks ago with the approval of a pan-european pension fund paving the way for the privatisation of social security, or when it encourages the idea of raising the retirement age to ensure the sustainability of social security systems, as exemplified by a study recently commissioned by employers in portugal. the recent progress achieved in portugal, with our proposal and contribution, albeit insufficient, means that it is in the creation of jobs and the appreciation of wages that the sustainability of social security systems is guaranteed, to which must be added the increase and appreciation of labour and social rights.
mr president, let me congratulate the prime minister for one of the most inspiring speeches that we have heard here from prime ministers. senhor presidente, gostaria de fazer uma pergunta sobre a política de coesão e os fundos de coesão. a comissão apresentou uma proposta em que um país, como a letónia, que fez tantos esforços e está tão abaixo da média do pib europeu, perde 14 % dos fundos de coesão, portugal perde 7 %, a croácia também perde 5 %. será aceitável que os países mais pobres venham a perder fundos na política de coesão? como é que o primeiro ministro kariņš pensa tratar disto? será que fará como o governo português e o antigo ministro pedro marques, que estão muito contentes por a comissão retirar a países que cumpriram todas as regras europeias e que são mais pobres do que a espanha, do que a itália, do que a finlândia, e esses sobem a política de coesão e estes descem a política de coesão. que medidas é que estes países podem e devem tomar frente à proposta da comissão?
mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister kariņš. prime minister kariņš, i’m glad to see you here and i enjoyed working with you, namely in the team that negotiated the fourth and the fifth anti-money laundering directives. like yourself, i’ve learned a lot, also on the basis of the inquiry committees of the european parliament on these matters and on tax matters, and i do appreciate what you said and i support fully that we need european central supervision on anti-money laundering. but let me ask you: will you now, as prime minister, also push for a european fiu, as we proposed in the parliament in the context namely of the fifth anti money laundering directive? also, will you push for the reform of the vat that the commission has proposed and that has been blocked by the council, despite the fact that it is giving piles of money to organised crime, and even to terrorist organisations, through the scheme of so-called carousel fraud? and will you also push for the mqv in taxation matters, which is a crucial question according to the commission, to indeed fight the tax dumping that distorts single market competition rules?
mr president, 70% of the medicines on the union market today are generics produced in one of the 400 european factories and this market is expected to grow, offering more opportunities for affordability and greater savings for health systems. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe that this exemption from the supplementary protection certificate will be essential if the manufacture of generic medicines is to remain in europe, ensuring highly qualified jobs for european citizens. this will increase the potential supply in europe, which will ensure the security of supply on the market and reduce the possibility of supply failures. we will also increase export capacity to third countries with products manufactured not only in accordance with our best practices but also with respect for european environmental values and social rights. the ccp is already an extension of patent protection so that certain innovative products can have an increased return on investment. it must be said that no rights established in respect of such return will be affected by this amendment to the regulation. the european union's business fabric must be kept together in a globally competitive world. to achieve this, it is crucial to defend a sustainable pharmaceutical ecosystem that stimulates this european industry to be an engine of economic growth.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this new and strengthened european border and coast guard is a historic step towards a truly shared protection of our common external borders. it is a historic step for schengen, for security and for free movement in europe. there will be 10,000 border guards able to support member states with weaker borders or facing an emergency as we have seen recently with the refugee crisis. but, as i have always said, this reinforcement cannot be used to relieve the member states of their responsibilities. half of these 10,000 guards will come from the member states. are the member states prepared to meet their obligations? is portugal, my country, prepared to send 110 inspectors from the foreign and borders service as early as 2021? i am afraid that once again we are promising at european level what the states will not allow. the agency will also have a strengthened role in the management and enforcement of return decisions for persons who have no right to be present on the territory. today, incredibly, less than a third of the decisions actually enforced are those issued, excluding portugal, where no statistics on these decisions are known. finally, we shall also learn the extent of secondary movements in europe, that is, how many asylum seekers are actually fleeing their host country. it will finally be clear that five governments have been trampling on schengen and free movement for absolutely no reason. a final word to the rapporteur, mrs roberta metsola, for the exceptional work she has done in an absolutely record time.
the revision of the visa code is another element in the revision of european visa policy, but it has effects that go far beyond that. with this reform we are facilitating and promoting tourism, which is an essential sector for the european union and for portugal, and we are strengthening security through readmission agreements. we will reduce the bureaucracy associated with tourist visa applications, we will extend the collection network of periods and shorten the deadlines, thus making it faster and easier for tourists and frequent travellers to obtain a visa. in addition, taking into account the specificities of the cruise industry, which is so relevant to our outermost regions such as madeira and the azores, we have harmonised the rules for multiple entries, thus simplifying the lives of passengers who travel along our coast. on the other hand, we are also strengthening security in connection with the new union visa system, which i had the honour of reporting to you on, and we will be gathering more information and conducting more security checks before these visas are even issued. moreover, we have clearly linked visa policy with the readmission policy in the european union, so that we can reward the most cooperative states. i have no doubt, mr president, that this is a necessary and concrete step towards a more prosperous and more secure europe, and for that i congratulate mr lópez aguilar, mr claude moraes and all the other members of the libe committee.
mr president, i would like to thank mr bas eickhout and all the colleagues who were involved in the conclusion of this dossier, who wanted to impose ambitious targets for the reduction of co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles, and i would also like to extend this thanks to all those who have worked throughout this mandate, in different dossiers, to coordinate the contribution of all sectors to the achievement of the paris targets, namely mrs dali who is leaving now. i would like to think that my proposals for strict emission limits, even more so than those which have finally been adopted, will also contribute to a shift in consciousness in this parliament and within my political group, the european people's party. we cannot continue to deny that climate change exists. we need to protect our ecosystems, of which we are a part, and curb the toxicity of human activity on the planet. there is one thing we are doing right, ladies and gentlemen, the warnings and messages of environmental scientists have a huge social echo and reach the younger layers who are demonstrating loudly, but there is another thing we are insisting on doing wrong, we are still protecting vested interests which prevent the decarbonisation of the economy and the development of green technologies. unfortunately, it's still the children who have to say the king goes naked.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this is indeed a very complex issue and you can try to dress up as you wish, but to invest €13 billion from the european budget in the european defence fund is to disinvest €13 billion in the european project. the european defence fund means exchanging solidarity, cohesion and measures to protect the quality of life of citizens for investment in more effective military equipment. the technical solutions found for the sale of arms are nothing more than a whitewash of the sale of arms. the european citizens do need security, but they need security at work, employment with rights, security in public services, security in a sustainable future. there is nothing to prevent the member states of the european union from cooperating in the field of defence. there is also no reason to create a new budget line, one which does not even appear in the objectives of the treaties. this is an expensive choice and it's much more expensive than the 13 billion euros that were put up.
madam president, commissioner, 13 billion euros is what the european union wants to pour into the military-industrial complex of the great european powers over seven years. public resources which are lacking in the fight against poverty, in investment in public services, in the promotion of economic and social cohesion are resources which are now going straight to the promotion of war, to the financing of the arms industry, fuelling a militaristic drift which can only disturb all lovers of peace. as if it were not enough to open the door of the research framework programme to purposes not exclusively civil and peaceful! as if it were not enough to orientate the transeuropean transport networks towards military mobility! the european union, with this proposal, is making it clear that those who promote war, who feed the war industry, do not want to and cannot defend peace, and that is why this is also an integration which is contrary to the interests of the peoples. we must be able to defeat it, and we must be able to build an alternative project of cooperation based on the values of peace.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr bütikofer, you will be able to confirm tomorrow that it will not be with the support of this group that this european defence fund, which wants to pour 13 billion euros into the arms industry, will be approved. eventually with a few votes from your bench, i don't know, we'll see. surely with the votes of the social democrats and the entire right wing. i am not unaware, nor are you, of the composition of this house. you know very well that our positions are still in the minority. i say they are still, because fortunately, sooner or later, sooner rather than later, they will be the majority positions and we will defeat this militaristic escalation in the european union. i know that the german greens have a somewhat complacent record with these militaristic adventures, but that, the contradictions remain with you and your party.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to speak to the commission, i would also like to thank all those who have worked on this important investment plan for 2021-2027, my colleague roberto gualtieri, who is my co-rapporteur, otmar karas, who has worked on the efsi, the investment plan for the european union until 2020, the juncker plan, as it is known, all the shadow rapporteurs, all the staff and, of course, the staff of the european people's party and also the secretariat of the committee on budgets. from 2021 to 2027, we'll have a new investment plan that brings together the 14 financial instruments that we have at the moment. this means simplification, but it must also mean ambition. the european parliament therefore wants the 14 financial instruments to be brought together in one with the same level of guarantee. we therefore propose a guarantee of eur 40.8 billion to mobilise eur 700 billion, and there is a slight difference here with the council and the commission which advocate eur 650 billion. everything is agreed, except for this part and the parts relating to the multiannual financial framework, but i would like to welcome this provisional agreement, which is only now dependent on the next negotiations, which i hope will be short, for the multiannual financial framework. in this investeu, in this investment plan for the european union, we have four main windows, we have one window for sustainable infrastructure, another window for small and mediumsized enterprises, for research and innovation and finally also for the social objective. the european union needs to see the disappearance of differences between regions and countries in terms of investment, the difficulties of some countries in accessing financial markets and, therefore, a reduction in financing difficulties. with this instrument, member states need to prepare for a new feature, the member states compartment, an additional compartment, which is voluntary but which will help member states with, for example, development finance institutions or national promotional banks that have some weaknesses. it is obvious that each member state must do its homework. it is also important that development finance institutions prepare. parliament has taken a very positive stance here, which contributes to the european union's competitiveness, to economic growth and to quality employment. we have also timely improved the governance of this financial instrument. in addition, we have included the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions in the advisory board, to strengthen the social aspect but also to strengthen the importance of the regions. the european union must be the european union of the citizens and also the european union of the regions. fortunately, we have also been able to improve governance in terms of avoiding potential conflicts of interest. the other 25% of the guarantee is for the national promotional banks and we want this guarantee to be implemented at 100%.
public investment is very important, private investment is also essential and promoting private initiative, strengthening the competitiveness of the european union, promoting entrepreneurship, start-ups, also strengthening the competitiveness and productivity, at the same time, of the european union, is a way of having better wages for everyone, better wages in public initiative, better wages in private initiative too. in public terms, in terms of public investment, it's essential that governments do their part. unfortunately, in my country, portugal, in the current investment plan, the government, and especially the one responsible, former minister pedro marques, did not use a single euro for investment. the juncker plan, like investeu, can and should be used for public investment. it is essential that each one of us do our part. here in the european parliament we have approved this programme to mobilise 700 billion euros. we want a good geographical distribution, so we've reinforced what's called the advisory hub, the investor advisory platform. but it is essential that there are also national investor support platforms in each member state. platforms that can also be regional, with the aim of helping to structure investment platforms, to structure applications. in this way we can make good use of investeu, which i am sure will achieve its objectives: better jobs, more investment, more economic growth, a more competitive and at the same time more inclusive european union.
mr president, commissioner, mrs deirdre, new technologies are rapidly changing the mobility landscape and in this context the union and the industries must respond to the challenge of becoming world leaders in mobility. i was the mrv rapporteur on co2 emissions from maritime transport and therefore i understand that this regulation was the next step to establish the harmonised rules for the provision of information required for port calls, ensuring the transmission of information between declarants, competent authorities and port service providers through the single national platform. these national platforms for the maritime sector should be maintained and serve as the basis for the european single platform environment for this sector that is technologically neutral, interoperable and allows for the technological updating and formal requirements for port access. the commission will now be responsible for developing the interface and its updates. but to achieve this objective of maintaining and achieving fully harmonised reporting requirements, we will need to have greater cooperation between customs and maritime authorities, both at national and union level. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking commissioner violeta bulc for her excellent cooperation and all the members of this house, especially the committee on transport.
mr president, madam mogherini, although president xi jinping seeks to present to world public opinion the image of a moderniser of contemporary china, the truth is that since he came to power in 2013, the human rights situation has deteriorated, the repression of ethnic minorities living in a han-majority country has intensified. in the face of the severe restrictions on freedom of movement, the acts of torture and linguistic discrimination suffered by tibetans and mongolians, the mass surveillance systems designed to create racial profiles of uyghurs who are still escaping attempts at ethnic cleansing and the so-called re-education camps in the xinjiang autonomous region, to name just a few examples, it is necessary for the union to reach a joint position condemning these vast campaigns of racism and oppression and for the billions of dollars' worth of agreements signed between that country and some member states not to allow money to overcome respect for the democratic principles that were at the origin of the european project.
mr. chairman, i would like to join in the motion for a resolution. the human rights situation in china is truly catastrophic. there were mentions of uighurs, tibetans. i would like to share with you, mrs. mogherini, the information that i, as the representative of prague, with other colleagues from the leadership of this capital, received the prime minister of the tibetan government in exile a month ago. the information he has given us about the situation in tibet is truly catastrophic. it's the destruction of the tibetan nation, the attempt to re-educate young tibetans, the curtailment of the rights of native tibetans, the preference of chinese immigrants to tibet, it's really terrible. so i have to say that this impression of ours led us to officially fly the tibetan flag in prague and officially join tibet. it is good that this is in the spirit of our european policy, we must do everything to change china's policy towards ethnic and religious minorities in the future. it's our moral duty.
mr president, we are witnessing once again the hypocrisy of the european union in using human rights as a means of interfering and interfering with sovereign countries, seeking to leverage a dominant position or to influence their development. a european union that is neither a reference nor a legitimate actor in the field of human rights, either because of gross violations, as is clearly evident in the case of migration, or because of its complicity in such violations with its allies, such as the united states, saudi arabia and israel, among others, in its aggression against countries and peoples. this resolution is nothing more than a subjugation and alignment to trump's policy of confrontation against china and the operation of internal destabilization of that country. what we are advocating here today, as we always do, in the light of the constitution of the portuguese republic, is cooperation with third countries, based on respect for sovereignty and non-interference, as enshrined in the charter of the united nations. that is the way that best serves and safeguards, in particular, portugal's interests in relations with that or any other country.
mr president, mrs mogherini, this is indeed my last speech in this house and i would like to thank you for your dedication and your excellent work on humanitarian causes and also wish you well, the very best of luck. thank you very much. ms mogherini, after the abusive provisions of the criminal code were widely condemned by the international community five years ago, sultan bolkiah is now trying to sneak them into force by publishing them on the website of the attorney general's office last december without any official announcement. in a country where it is easy to hide from its own people the coming into force of medieval punishments such as those which provide for the death sentence by stoning of homosexuals and adulterers, the cutting off of hands and legs of those caught stealing or the flogging for abortion, it is impossible to silence the voices that, a little bit around the world, condemn these cruel and inhuman practices in the middle of the 21st century. mrs mogherini, the european union, where sultan bolkiah has important economic interests, should consider blacklisting these assets and should suspend negotiations for a partnership and cooperation agreement unless this unacceptable legislation is repealed and brought into line with international standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to speak at the beginning of this voting session to report on the tragedy, which you have already reported, which occurred yesterday on the island of madeira and which has already claimed the lives of some 29 people. mr president, the overturning of a bus carrying german tourists was a tragedy that my country will never forget, not only because of the lives lost, which unfortunately makes it one of the most serious accidents in madeira, but also because it happened at a time that is so important to us portuguese, lent. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by expressing my deep regret at the loss of life and the injuries sustained, and by asking you, on behalf of this parliament, to convey our deepest condolences to the families of the victims, and by thanking you, mr president, for the minute's silence you have granted in memory of these victims.
mr president, i supported this resolution because it is truly shameful that we have not yet had an implementing legislation which clearly regulates the conditions under which the european parliament exercises its right of inquiry. we have been trying to do this throughout this mandate, unfortunately on the part of the european commission, but in particular the council has not responded sufficiently. the council's reaction last autumn was more negative than positive, seeking reasons why such an implementing regulation could not be adopted. i hope, therefore, at the end of my speech here in the european parliament, that in the next parliamentary term there will be a greater effort not only by the european parliament but also by the council and the commission to make up for the mistake of not having adopted implementing legislation, and that this legislation will be adopted in such a way that the european parliament will be able to exercise effectively one of its other key roles alongside legislation, namely the right of inquiry.
mr president, the evidence of the toxicity of substances with endocrine disrupting activity goes back more than 20 years. the matter is made all the more serious when we consider that these substances circulate in our midst and are responsible for cases of infertility, obesity and cancer, both in humans and other species in our ecosystem. so far, there has been a case-by-case assessment based on an alert, and there is no truly transversal measure to end the presence of these substances. the case of bisphenol a in baby food has been highlighted in the media, but how many more of these substances do we have in contact with ourselves and our children through food, teaching material, toys or hygiene and cosmetic products? i voted in favour of this report because we need to look systematically at these substances and other substances of a similar nature which may be suspected of having hormonal destabilising activities. it is important to trigger the precautionary principle as there are many uncertainties about mechanisms of action, doses, acceptable exposures and combined effects of these substances. i would also like to make a final point about my total dedication in this mandate to health, the environment and human rights, which all seem to converge in this last plenary speech.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members because they clearly have proved that they are back with new energy, high ambitions and great ideas. i am also very glad that, in all the speeches, i have heard clearly that there is enormous convergence between our institutions on the strategic agenda for the future. we have been working hard over the past five years to make sure not only that the eu will remain the leader in tackling climate change, but also that we are laying the ground for the new, modern, sustainable economy, and therefore one of the big responsibilities for all of us in this new period will be to make sure that we have correct and proper implementation of all the laws that have already been agreed. the cause advanced by ms garcía, mr ciolos, mr pons and mr lamberts, to make sure that we use the next five years to build a social, green and fair europe, is something we must bear in mind throughout the next steps and in planning our work for the future. i very much echo the calls made by many of the honourable members who say this new economy must ensure that nobody is left behind, that energy poverty is properly tackled, that everyone will see their future in the new economy – including those who are living in coal regions today or in energy-intensive cities and towns built many decades ago – and that we know how to help, we know how to provide them with new hope and new economic plans for the future. what we need to underline – and again this point was made by ms iratxe garcía – is that to get to these very concrete measures we need quick decisions on the next multiannual financial framework. we need to make sure that we do not waste time, that we do not waste weeks, months and days ensuring that all our programmes and ideas are properly financially supported. we know we are not that far from concluding the deal, and we need to make sure that we use the finnish presidency for a successful conclusion of the new european budget. we need to build an economy that is not only green and clean but also competitive, and it’s quite clear that, in addition to what we’ve been doing already, we need a new, ambitious approach to all the so-called technological mega-trends. be it in clean mobility, artificial intelligence, super-computing or robotics, we need to make sure that we can be a strong competitor vis-à-vis the competition from the usa or china – and i’m sure we can do that in our european way, respectful of our citizens, respectful of the environment and respectful of international treaties, international rules and obligations. in that regard, i would also like to reassure mr shirdewan that all our new trade agreements, which will be discussed with all of you, respect high trade, environmental and labour standards, and that this is our european response to the creeping trade protectionism which we see around the world. of course, we in the commission will be ready to explain to you all the advantages of, and the philosophy behind, these trade deals. with all due respect to our british colleagues, i have to say that we in the commission will be sorry to see you go, and we still hope that this will not happen. (applause)and to the colleagues up there, with all my diplomatic skills, i would just say that we would not take that leadership lesson from you. (applause)so, honourable members, mr president of parliament, president of the european council, i would like to conclude my first address to the new house with an appeal to all of us: let us make sure that we use the coming years to make this century a european one, or at least as european as it can be, because the world needs a strong, united, prosperous europe. (applause)
president of the european council. – mr president, i would very much like our two institutions to cooperate in the best way possible. so today i will refrain from making any comment. i hope that we will all take responsibility for the new leadership being well-balanced in every respect. (murmurs of discontent)
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i acknowledge the compromise reached in the council on the top candidates. i think von der leyen is a strong candidate for the presidency of the european commission. i agree with his views on the common security and defence policy. his strength is certainly his knowledge of the baltic region. however, i see a problem with the agreement reached: there is no geographical imbalance in the distribution of top posts. neither central and eastern europe nor northern europe is represented.
the process of choosing the occupants of the top posts in the eu institutions is first and foremost an assertion of power by the directory of powers which has always determined the direction of the eu, namely the franco-german axis, dominated by germany, as the directory which decides and imposes. following the results of the european parliament elections, which showed an electoral erosion of the right-wing and social-democratic parties, members of the epp and s&d respectively, it became necessary to reconfigure the so-called 'brussels consensus' to include with another protagonism the so-called 'liberals', now formally necessary for the formation of the majorities necessary to enforce the continuity of the policies in force. the compromise reached confirms the deception of the so-called 'candidates for president of the european commission', a manoeuvre of political manipulation that sought to give a democratic appearance to a process that is undemocratic in its essence, while at the same time giving cover to the efforts to deepen the federalist character of the eu institutions and the capitalist integration process itself. the generally negative public perception of this process may lead its protagonists to contemporiza­tions, adjustments and punctual changes, or even a twist or a change, in the consensus now reached. but the intention is clear: beyond the characters of the moment, insist on the same policies.
the holding of elections is a major moment in democracies, allowing the will of voters to be expressed and bringing them closer to the political process, which is essential for the health of democracies and the legitimisation of institutions. in this respect, the 'spitzenkandidaten' process was a very positive development, increasing the transparency of political choices in the european union and conferring a stronger legitimacy on the european commission. the demonstrated inability to successfully complete the 'spitzenkandidaten' process was therefore quite negative for the necessary strengthening of the proximity between citizens and institutions. however, this should not distract us from what is most important to the citizens, which is the concrete policies that must be put in place to make the european union more just, cohesive and sustainable.
in writing. the main winners of the agreement on the new leaders of the european union are gender balance and alde/renew europe. the candidates for president of the european commission and president of the european central bank are women, and alde/re won the presidency of the european council. for the first time, alde/re was at the top of eu leadership. the geographical balance was not as good, as there were no representatives of eastern europe and the nordic countries in the top posts, and the european people's party had to withdraw from the spitzenkandidaten system, which it had strongly supported. but what is most important is, of course, the content of the european union's policy-making over the next five years.
the process leading to the outcome of the european council on the appointment of eu institutions' heads of state expressed contradictions inherent in the crisis of this process of capitalist integration, which did not break with the so-called 'brussels consensus' between the pse and the epp; but it has deepened it to include the so-called "liberals". the commitment and the protagonists found confirm the insistence on deepening federalist policies that challenge the sovereignty of the states; neoliberal policies that attack labour and social rights, public services and the social functions of the state; militarist and security policies, with authoritarian and anti-democratic expressions policies that feed the far right. the decisions of the european council prove the falsity and the manipulative nature of the electoral rhetoric about the 'social dimension', the 'social contract', the 'progressive alliances' or the 'democratic legitimacy' of the eu. it was once again the eu's power-directorate that dictated the political outcome of a process that will continue down a path that has already proved disastrous for workers and peoples. for our part, we will continue to defend, without compromise, the interests of the workers, the people and the country, presenting proposals that allow us to seize all the opportunities for the development of the country. we will be in the forefront of rejecting any measures or impositions that harm portugal.
mr president, i would like to say that the commitment, oral and written, by ms von der leyen, to more competitiveness, to a sustainable europe with more solidarity shows that she saw correctly our programme, but, ms von der leyen, you also saw the expectations of europeans. europe is in need of urgent action. so it was good to see that you didn’t hesitate in assuming commitments that go towards what citizens expect, which is clear commitment, clear achievements. we now expect due capacity to compromise and to overcome the blockages from the council on several issues: on carbonisation, on migration, on euro area reform, on the pillar of social rights. there’s no room for hesitation. huge challenges lie immediately on our hands, such as the approval of an adequate budget for europe. we take your words today, in your written words, with great expectation. parliament will deliver on its part. the citizens of the eu expect nothing less from us. that means that your pledge on this day is a solemn one. europeans demand nothing less than five years of redemption of the european project after 10 years of crisis and hesitation. let us rebuild from now on the europe of our dreams.
in writing. you have been under considerable pressure since the european council recommended you for this high-level post. please don't let him intimidate you. the designation was made in a democratic manner in accordance with the existing eu treaties, while respecting the rule of law of the union. to call for a system of top-notch that doesn't exist in the contracts is unworthy of you and legally it doesn't even stand a chance. with your election today, there is a chance for a new beginning, for the implementation of article 4.2 of the treaty, so that all member states are measured against the same standard and that the constitutional identity of the member states is respected. that we can settle our common problems through dialogue, based on mutual respect, without encroaching on the established powers of the institutions, and on the rules that exist, not those that are imagined. i also suggest you open it to central europe. you should go to hungary as soon as possible. ask questions and try to understand our reality. get your information firsthand, don't rely on other people's judgments. central europe is now the economic engine of the union. when reviewing the union's next seven-year framework budget, it should revise the draft budget as noted by its predecessor in such a way as to contribute to the continuation of this development. don't punish good performance, reward it. finally, i ask that you be the guardian of our freedom. you can think differently, believe in conservative values. to speak with impunity for the preservation of european civilization and culture.
in writing. other ursula von der leyen's speech was instrumental in clarifying the vision of the candidate nominated by the european council for the next five years. and it will be five years of structural change in the construction of europe's future for the next few decades. the process of selecting the candidate, which is led by the european council, was complex and demanding in difficult political circumstances. the timely holding of this election is essential to continue the formation of the commission and the preparation for the new cycle, starting on 1 november. i welcome the choice of a woman as president of the european commission and hope that the composition of the future commission will be balanced. i am sure that we will have men and women with a clear commitment to the european cause. technical competence, political vision and portfolio suitability will be the criteria that will preside over our hearings. and the president-elect of the commission will have the responsibility of ensuring these conditions a priori. i support the priorities set out in the resolution on combating climate change, completing economic and monetary union, adapting to the digital society and economy, eradicating violence against women and reforming the union's institutions.
in writing. mrs ursula von der leyen represents the consensus that has been shaping the course of the european union for decades, namely: (ii) the consensus on the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe; on precarious employment, instability in the lives of millions of workers, unemployment and underemployment; on inequalities between men and women; (iii) the consensus of big capital and the great powers, which sacrifices the weakest productive systems, the environment and social rights for the profit of multinationals; (iv) the consensus on privatization, the attack on public services, threats and sanctions against sovereign states; (v) the consensus of militarism and war. but these consensus can count on the opposition of all those who are fighting for another europe: the europe of progress, social justice, environmental protection, democracy, solidarity, peace and cooperation; a europe which will be fulfilled through the struggle of the workers and the peoples.
mr president, on the occasion of the three years of the eu's global strategy, i congratulate mrs mogherini on its implementation. the european union's commitment to multilateralism is a strong point and i would like to highlight some of the many successes of this strategy: the programmes in the fields of security and defence and the enhanced partnership, fisheries, the association and investment agreement with ukraine, support for the peace process in colombia, among others. but i cannot help but mention one area where there is still much to be done. the so-called 'internal-external axis' in migration, which has produced some results with programmes such as operation sofia, is clearly lacking. how can we talk about human rights when we continue to allow thousands of people to die at our borders because some of our states refuse to comply with international asylum rules? how can we continue to be complicit in the stress of so many migrants in detention centres in libya, where they are subjected to torture and inhuman treatment? finally, how can the global strategy help to do in the european union what is already being done in many other places?
mr president, madam high representative, the humanitarian tragedy in venezuela continues to shock all international observers. the un report shows that human rights violations continue to multiply, the rule of law continues to be ignored and the living conditions of the population are increasingly difficult, and no one can be complacent about this situation. but let us be clear, there is no solution for the country that is capable of protecting those who remain there, surviving in extreme conditions, that does not go through dialogue and international mediation with a view to a peaceful resolution of the crisis. the work of the contact group has produced results which have been recognised by all parties concerned. the european union must now continue to work to restore the institutional balance and to implement the changes needed to hold free and fair elections, open to the participation of all political forces and with guarantees of international monitoring.
i would like to say that in future, during this election period, i will stick to these five minutes for spontaneous speeches, as the rules require. but since we now have only one speaker and you did not know that there are different procedures, i would like to give the floor to mrs sandra pereira. but i would like you to focus on the fact that no matter how many speech messages you send, the spontaneous speech messages are limited to five minutes.
mr president, we are faced with this parliament's inexhaustible stockpile of hypocritical demagogy and falsehoods which seek to legitimize interference in sovereign countries. the european union is continuing its offensive against venezuela in alliance with the us strategy and interests for the region which they take as their backyard. in the face of the united nations charter, they use and insist on the same old tactics: systematic actions of internal destabilisation, attempted coups d'état, terrorism, sabotage, sanctions, economic, financial, political and diplomatic blockade. it is the interests and living conditions of the venezuelan people and, in particular, of the immense portuguese community in that country that the european union is compromising by supporting coup plotters, isolating the country or threatening military intervention. it is in demanding an immediate end to sanctions and in defending dialogue and peace, respecting the right of the venezuelan people to freely and sovereignly decide their future, that the solution to the problems facing venezuela and its people is to be found.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen a deterioration of the rule of law in the republic of moldova which is incompatible with european standards. in view of recent developments, i welcome the unfreezing of part of the package of microfinance assistance announced by commissioner hahn and hope that this first step by the commission can serve as an incentive for a number of conditions to be met. respect for the freedom and independence of the press, respect for political opponents, the fight against corruption, the reform of the electoral judicial system, the free and exhaustive investigation of the 2014 tax fraud are fundamental steps for the regeneration of the moldovan society which is one of the poorest in the region and which has seen a third of its population emigrate since 2014 for lack of future expectations. the moment of change in moldova must be seized by all political forces to find a stable government solution that meets the interests of the moldovans.
mr president, mr prime minister, yesterday’s voting at this parliament resulted in a great push for a swift advance to the european project. let me point out some of the most urgent dossiers that should be on the table within your presidency. the mff – one of the most urgent dossiers. the trilogues are far from the end. the council has the prerogative to decide, but the european parliament also has to approve. there was a resolution from this parliament with much higher ambition than the commission proposal. we need to develop our positions rapidly in order to reach an agreement. the euro. the euro was tested over the last 10 years and the eurozone reform is incomplete. we need to create a real fiscal capacity. we need the stabilisation mechanisms that this group has pushed for in the past and are now part of the programme of the newly elected president of the commission. we also need the early detection and exclusion system (edes), to complete the banking union. finally, the european pillar of social rights – make it legally binding. that is a clear priority for this group. it is now a priority for the commission. i wish you all the best, mr prime minister.
mr president, the european union is a community of values. we therefore support the presidency's proposal to strengthen and use the eu's rule of law monitoring tools. secondly, europe must face, and must face now, major challenges. one way we can reduce uncertainty is to work towards this presidency finalising the negotiations in the council on the next multiannual financial framework as early as autumn 2019. member states need this certainty to ensure that by january 2021 they can have the next financial cycle at the service of citizens, european businesses and the european union. we support an ambitious and balanced financial framework with the necessary and sufficient flexibility so that the future multiannual financial framework can respond effectively to the political priorities of the union and also to unforeseen events. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, saving lives is not, and cannot be, a crime. we cannot criminalize those who merely comply with the basic principles of human rights and the united nations convention on the law of the sea. it is shortsighted to imagine that refugees and migrants will stop seeking an opportunity for a life in safety and dignity if there is no one to help them. it is therefore necessary to revise the immigration facilitation directive, to revise the dublin rules, to develop a common asylum policy based on solidarity in sharing the responsibility for international protection, and to develop an integrated immigration policy based on legal and safe channels and a development cooperation policy capable of responding to the causes of migration. denying humanitarian aid, denying the dignity of every human being, denying the inalienable right to life is denying europe's humanist identity and is committing a crime against humanity.
mr. chairman, please! the fight for clean air is an absolutely very important issue and that is not something that anyone in this chamber is discussing, and that is not something that any of us are questioning. of course, the air in cities is especially polluted. what specifically can we do to improve air quality? let's focus on sustainable transport, on electric mobility, on improving the energy efficiency of buildings or on developing district heating in member states with low winter temperatures. but, gentlemen, to fight for something, you have to start with yourself. let's look at the workings of the european parliament. is it for environmental reasons that parliament is moving from brussels to strasbourg for three days? how we pollute the air by our travels! are these car lines in the parliament building waiting for meps polluting the air or are they irrelevant? maybe to make demands of others, you should start demanding of yourself. we use slogans, programs, restrictive targets, and yet we contribute to the air pollution, this time in strasbourg.
mr president, in her speech yesterday, ursula von der leyen committed herself to a climate neutral europe by 2050. this also means that low-emission zones will have to expand into european cities at a faster pace. low emission zones have been proven to provide a number of health benefits to urban dwellers, including reduced respiratory disease and mortality. these are therefore effective measures. unfortunately, they only partially solve the problem of highly polluting cars, by effectively displacing them to other urban areas. at the same time, they imply higher costs for individual cities in the form of more promoting public, pedestrian and cycling transport, or building catchment car parks and overall regulation of parking policy. however, cities in all the member states of the european union do not have sufficient resources in their budgets to cover these costs, and i would therefore like to ask that in the future we look for ways of finding resources to support, say, the faster construction of either catchment car parks or alternative transport options.
mr president, urban air quality zones are bringing some improvements in air quality and scientific studies confirm that they do indeed bring health benefits. but by creating these zones, mayors and councils are grappling with a problem that is much bigger than any city and goes beyond the borders of each of them. they are fighting because national governments, including the czech one, are failing to address air quality. at the same time, these zones are facing various difficulties that threaten their continued existence. one is that they become the subject of political struggle. it happens that a newly elected mayor stops collecting fines for violating the clean zone rules and his decision is subsequently challenged in court, which cancels his decision and orders the re-collection of these fines. for air quality, such an outcome is undoubtedly a win, but if these legal battles were to be repeated, the future of these zones could be highly uncertain. a particular weakness of the zones is that they are often politically contentious and therefore vulnerable. the systemic solution should be to tighten eu air legislation and ensure that car manufacturers bring their vehicles into compliance with existing emissions regulations. it is clear that we will not have really healthy air in our cities or at least hope for stabilizing the climate if there are a large number of cars running on fossil fuels on the roads of cities. so we need to gradually shift to electric vehicles and keep cars away from city centers.
mr president, commissioner, the air quality directive is fundamental to the lives of citizens and to the preservation of biodiversity. however, in portugal, the country where i was elected, there are several infringement procedures for failure to comply with this directive and what we see is that the portuguese government and the successive governments have not complied because they have targets that are not the most reliable for ensuring the pursuit of these objectives. and what we want is for you to really rethink not just the question of automobile mobility, but especially aviation-related mobility. in portugal, in lisbon, we have the airport in the city centre and an airport is being built, or is expected to be built, a few kilometres from the lisbon metropolitan area. it is essential that the european commission looks at this issue with an eye to the future and reforms this directive to make it more demanding and to enable member states to comply with it and, if they do not comply, to be pressured to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 9 out of 10 people live in environments with polluted air and 4 million die every year as a result of air pollution. that's the equivalent of the entire population of ireland disappearing every year. if you think this is a problem of developing countries or that it does not affect europe, you are wrong. every year in europe, as many people die prematurely from air quality problems as inhabitants of luxembourg. half a million people every year. and more and more europeans live in cities, where pollution is higher. pollution is making us sick: cancer, cognitive problems, dementia and diabetes are just part of the problem. and the data shows that even in rural areas, pollution limits are being exceeded. we need more control over air quality because what we can't measure, we can't improve. we need to work as a team because this is a team effort. here in parliament, it is urgent to decide and create mandatory solutions for cities on air quality control, planning and improvement. we need to create clean-emission zones in city centres and we need to make the air in our towns and our lives cleaner and healthier. this parliament was inaugurated a few weeks ago, but there is an urgent need to decide on this matter. it's measured by the lives we can save.
the resolution we are now discussing represents a clear statement in defence of human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law and a condemnation of their repeated violation by the authorities of the russian federation. we condemn the arbitrary detention of ukrainian citizens by russia on russian territory and in the temporarily occupied territories of ukraine and call for the immediate and unconditional release of the tatar activists, the ukrainians detained on politically motivated charges and the 24 sailors captured in the kerch strait. we condemn the attacks on the freedom of association and expression of civil society, including the law that leads to the classification of some ngos as foreign agents, and we strongly condemn the persecution of environmental activists. we call for the immediate release of these detainees, for the cessation of the use of disproportionate force against peaceful protesters and for the russian federation to return swiftly to the principles of the rule of law and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. this is obviously a very important resolution and the ecr group will support it. indeed, since 2014, i.e. since the illegal annexation of crimea and military aggression in eastern ukraine, we have witnessed many cases of human rights violations, disappearances, persecution and unlawful detention of ukrainians and other minorities. that's why we support sanctions. i would like to draw your attention to one thing. we all know that many member states are more inclined to protect their own commercial interests in russia than to actually comply with the sanctions. how, for example, could the austrian oil company omv have agreed with gazprom last month to buy its shares in the siberian gas fields for 900 million euros? how to explain that german direct investment in russia in 2019 recorded a 33 percent increase compared to the previous year? the eu's policy towards russia therefore needs to be more consistent.
the resolution is part of the escalation of confrontation between the united states and nato and the russian federation. an escalation of confrontation that includes the imposition of sanctions and that integrates the fascist-style coup d'état in ukraine in 2014, and with which the european union has actively aligned itself. the resolution conceals the policy of encirclement and bellicose warfare which the united states and nato have been pursuing against russia, particularly since 1999 with successive enlargements and the installation of military means along the borders of these countries. the resolution's whitewashing of the ukrainian regime and its policy of oppression and war against its own people, of the violence of the actions of ukrainian fascist groups against ukrainian populations, is particularly serious and significant. this situation brings further isolation, impoverishment and insecurity to the peoples of both regions, with consequences for other states. for example, as a result of the sanctions, portugal's rock pear producers lose around eur 250 million a year. a policy of peace and inclusion in a europe of the workers and peoples is a civilization's urgent need.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the treaties do not expressly mention the word 'forests'. we also know that in recent years the european institutions, the parliament and, of course, the commission, have been more active in managing this heritage. but i want to say here today that we believe that, despite the difficulties in managing a forest which is so different in the various countries, as agriculture is in so many countries that are part of the union, it has been possible to make a common agricultural policy. here too it must be possible to at least have a common forestry strategy. so we say yes to environmental conservation and ecological balance, we say yes to greater involvement of the municipalities, of the regions, we say yes to sustainable management of biomass, but we also say yes to the economic value of the forest. greater economic value of the forest with these associated aspects means more people in the territories, and more people in the territories means more balanced development. i would therefore like to make a suggestion, as my colleague simone schmiedtbauer has just said, concerning the strengthening of the solidarity fund. i would like to say, as we say in my country, that forest fires are not to be fought, they are to be avoided, and that is why i would like to leave the suggestion that we should have a fund to support forest prevention.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of chemical agents is a very good one. we are seeing the creation of genuine monopolies in the production processes in the agricultural sector. the multinationals control and divide the market among themselves at the expense of the ruin of many small and mediumsized farmers, the reduction of the diversity of production and the possibilities of choice of consumers, who have become more dependent on these multinationals. it is one thing to invent processes of genetic modification using molecular biology and intellectual property rights applied to those processes, and it is another thing to have the product, the living organisms, however new, that come from these technologies. the existence of intellectual property rights over these organisms is not acceptable, nor is the patenting of conventional genetic selection processes, crossbreeding processes or the resulting breeding products, such as new plant or animal varieties. nor are laboratory-assisted selection processes in which whole genomes are involved acceptable.
madam president, the struggle of those who have been demonstrating peacefully in the streets of hong kong in recent months is now a struggle for freedom of expression and association, for civil rights and for democracy. the european union cannot therefore remain indifferent to calls for firm and determined action by the local and chinese authorities to stop the escalation of violence against the protesters. the european union must use all the instruments at its disposal to prevent tragic events and to make the chinese authorities understand that the way forward is not through the repression of dissenting voices and the disproportionate use of force, but through dialogue with a view to a peaceful solution to the conflict. we must welcome the calls made by the leaders of the various movements for the demonstrations to be peaceful and tell the chinese government that it is not enough to limit itself to declarations of intent and that decisive steps must be taken to respect human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression and association.
madam president, this european parliament is preparing to give a positive opinion so that the most important position for economic policies in europe is occupied by a representative of the economic doctrine of shock and awe, of the economic policy of rescue by recession, who has presided over adjustment programmes with consequences as tragic from the social point of view as counterproductive from the economic and budgetary point of view, and it is a pity that many of those who, sooner or later, criticised these adjustment programmes are willing to forget this course on the basis of a half-dozen public statements of varying degrees of sympathy. it is true that it is not the job of the president of the ecb to liberate the euro area from a growth strategy of mediocrity addicted to instruments, to the permanent use of extraordinary monetary policy instruments, but we know that we have a climate crisis today and we will have an economic crisis in the near future, and we also know from her background that christine lagarde will be a force of opposition to the fiscal and public service policies that we will need to have to respond to them.
madam president, contrary to the position of some members of this parliament, we consider that it is of the utmost importance the fact that ms lagarde pledged to maintain the current monetary policy of the ecb, particularly the non-traditional instruments adopted in these last few years and also as recently as last week. that policy saved the euro and we can’t afford to go back into times of adventure, so we backed the nomination of ms lagarde, but i wonder if the hawks of monetarism are biting at several groups in this european parliament, namely, but not surprisingly, the ppe. we do need an active monetary policy of the kind we’ve had from 2014. however, as the candidate for president of the ecb referred, it is also time for fiscal policy to do its part. countries with strong macroeconomic surpluses have to do more on the eve of a possible stagnation of the european economy. but in the long term, more has to be done. we need to swiftly complete the banking union and need... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this important and timely debate. as a number of you have underlined, disinformation campaigns are designed to hamper the ability of our citizens to make informed choices, to divide our society and our communities, and to call into question the outcomes of our electoral processes and the integrity of our democratic institutions. i don’t think that we can accept this as a new normal. we must be ready to do more to counter it. part of the problem comes from outside of the eu. a number of you have mentioned russia. let me be clear: there is a team – it’s been referred to in the institutions – whose job it is to monitor pro-kremlin disinformation campaigns, and they report – this is publicly available – that, over a recent period when they checked, the amount of pro-kremlin coordinated disinformation across our member states had doubled compared with a year ago. so this is a real problem, and we should not duck that. let me also be clear that others have learned from the russian playbook, so we have to build our resilience – we have to build our counter-measures to resist and counter disinformation, wherever it comes from. that’s why we’ve put in place – from the commission’s side, working with the member states and with civil society – a series of measures. but i am not pleased, and we are not resting on our laurels: we say we need to do more. we need to do more on tackling online disinformation, and we need to do more on reinforcing the resilience of our elections. in the coming weeks and months, we will review the code of practice on disinformation to ensure that we can do better to protect the integrity of our democratic societies, and we will report to you on this by the end of october. let me just say, in response to one or two of the comments, that this code of practice on disinformation which we are pursuing with the social media platforms has absolutely nothing to do with censorship. it has absolutely nothing to do with the idea of a ministry of truth. it is not about determining that a particular political comment is good or bad, true or false. it is about shining a light on the provenance of political debate. it is about transparency, so that our citizens know when they see information where it comes from, who’s paying for it, and whether it’s a human or an artificial machine that is circulating that information. i think that is essential, if we’re going to be able to equip our citizens to make good choices. we will also come back to you to report on the conduct of the european parliament elections and the implementation of the election package of measures on free and fair elections. again, we will work on a european democracy action plan to build the resilience of our democratic systems, and we expect to put forward – subject to confirmation – legislative proposals to ensure greater transparency on paid political advertising and clearer rules on the financing of european political parties. alongside this, at the same time, we will continue to work with fact—checkers, researchers and civil society, as well as the member states and online platforms, so that together we can make the progress we need to ensure a prosperous, safe and democratic future for europe and our citizens.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate. it is on a very topical issue and one which is a priority for our presidency. i would like to thank members for their very active participation. the resilience of our union is based on unity. the more united we are, the better we can withstand the spread of disinformation. it is our obligation to spare no effort to protect our elections and more generally our democratic systems from foreign interference, and we have to do it in full respect of fundamental rights such as freedom of speech, the media and association. we will continue working horizontally across sectors, across borders, learning from each other through the exchange of information and best practices. and progress has been made. however, as commissioner jourová and commissioner king and many of you here said, we must remain vigilant, and as i reiterated, the presidency has placed significant emphasis on hybrid threats. we also look forward to the new initiatives announced by the commission. and let me once again point out that general awareness of the hybrid threats among our citizens is essential. while open societies and public administrations provide correct information, there won’t be lasting room for disinformation. so thank you again for this interesting and important debate.
motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be notified at a later stage. this conversation is over. the vote will take place at the next part-session. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.) written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the european union's (eu) obsession with the possible interference of third countries in the democratic processes of its member states is above all an exercise in cynicism, when it is known that the eu itself is a constant source of interference in the sovereignty of other countries. it is not surprising, therefore, that this resolution is full of unsubstantiated accusations and full of support for organisations aiming at destabilising third countries, controlling the personal data and information of citizens, and asserting the military and geo-strategic interests of an eu which is increasingly concerned with markets rather than democracy. fake news, the quality of information and information literacy should be issues of concern to all of us. but we have to recognize that it is often the eu and the european institutions that promote fake news. confronting this problem is not about inventing an external enemy; the democratization of the media, the end of the concentration of the media in large groups, the end of the submission of content to the interests of the large economic groups, the strengthening of the public media, the enhancement of the working conditions of the professionals in the sector.
madam president, the forest fires in the amazon region have drawn our attention not only to the extent of the destruction of what is called one of the 'lungs of the planet', but also to the increasingly serious human rights violations in this region. we have witnessed an escalation of violence in indigenous territories and we cannot remain indifferent to the news of the murder of indigenous leaders, human rights activists and environmentalists. examples such as the chief emyra wajãpi, who was murdered at the end of june, dilma ferreira da silva, claudionor costa da silva, who have been mentioned here, and so many others should serve as an alarm for what is happening. threats, intimidation and harassment are increasingly common and must be met with a determined response from the european union. announcements by brazilian politicians of opening up to the growing exploitation of the amazon territory by the agricultural and mining sectors have fuelled conflicts and disrespect for the basic rights and freedoms of indigenous peoples. the european union must not - cannot - ignore its obligations as a global leader and must use the instruments at its disposal in dialogue with governments to defend the forest, the environment, combat climate change and protect human rights.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, the facts and figures are clear. the european union is largely responsible for the destruction of the amazon rainforest. we are the largest importer of agricultural products from deforested areas and the second largest importer of brazilian soybeans used in livestock feed in europe. there's no denying that what we eat is devastating the amazon and its indigenous communities. but another course is possible if the union has the courage to put its foot on the brake. so i ask you, madam minister, commissioner, are you prepared to freeze the agreement with mercosur and stop the import of meat and soya from latin america? we know that this is a difficult decision, but it is necessary to stop the farming lobby and to finally and definitively prioritize the protection of the biodiversity of the amazon and indigenous communities.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has strongly supported the peace process which has been launched in colombia after decades of civil war, precisely to ensure that human rights are respected and protected in that country. however, the news we have been hearing lately is not comforting. after a period of decline in violence, there has been a resurgence in attacks, human rights violations, acts of discrimination and serious violence against women. in the last year alone, 2018, there were about 350 children who died from malnutrition and diseases, although they could be cured. children are the most vulnerable in crises like the one colombia is experiencing. as the european union, we must therefore use all the resources, all the instruments at our disposal and the agreements reached to defend peace in colombia, to ensure respect for human rights, security, justice and social equity and to give a better future to children throughout the country.
mr president, the situation of non-compliance with the peace agreement in colombia and the intensification of repression and persecution, as exemplified by the wave of hundreds of murders of social and political leaders and activists, including former members of the farc, now demobilized, and their families, is taking on dramatic contours. the failure of the colombian state to fully implement the peace agreement, in particular as regards the dismantling of the far-right paramilitary groups and the elimination of their impunity, is a determining factor in the worsening of the political and social situation in colombia and the violation of the democratic guarantees and rights of the colombian people, which jeopardises peace. it is time to demand the full respect and implementation of the agreement signed in 2016 in havana, and its compliance, putting an end to the campaign of violence and oppression. it is time to meet the just and legitimate aspirations and demands of the colombian people for democracy, social justice and peace.
mr president, 260 000 dead, 83 000 missing, 7.4 million displaced people are the estimated black figures of 50 years of conflict in colombia, which ended three years ago with a peace agreement and to which the european union made a major contribution. we can't go back to the way things were. colombia cannot turn back now. the recent announcement of a minority's return to armed struggle is therefore a matter of great concern to us all in view of the threat of destabilisation of the country and the region. the peace agreement is not a point of arrival, but the beginning of a collective construction where the effort of all is needed in the political and social integration of combatants and in the pursuit of higher development goals, the promotion of access to transitional justice, respect for human rights and the action of activists. in view of the situation in colombia, it is imperative that the european union continue to support and monitor the implementation of the peace agreement and to demand that the current government comply with it. dialogue and political action are the only ways to the progress and peace we all want.
madam president, the british people have voted in a referendum on brexit and therefore this parliament has no right to exert pressure or to give opinions on the outcome of that referendum. this parliament has an obligation to respect this result, because it is respect for democracy that we are talking about. and interventions that do not go in that direction are not a good contribution to our ability to have a friendly, negotiated solution to brexit. however, it is not the duty of this parliament, nor our legal view, to join the irresponsibility of the british prime minister in wanting to provoke a no-deal exit which calls into question the good friday agreement - which, it should be remembered, is a peace agreement - and calls into question the rights of european immigrants in the united kingdom and of british immigrants in the european union. these rights must be defended and the european institutions, starting with the european parliament, have a responsibility to defend all these citizens even in the event of a no-deal exit.
we know that cancer is currently the second leading cause of death in the european union and that in 2018 there were 3 million new diagnoses. cancer thus has a major impact on health systems, but also on the european economy. 30 to 50% of these cases could be avoided by reducing risk factors and implementing evidence-based preventive strategies. the current investment of the european union is insufficient to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. increased investment is needed in primary and primary prevention through policies that promote better lifestyles and healthy environments, as well as in the early detection of cancer. to this end, it is essential to support scientific research with sound studies, such as cohort studies, so that we can base our decisions on the best possible scientific evidence.
cancer is one of the leading causes of suffering and death in europe. in recent decades, however, there have been important scientific advances in the ability to cure a significant proportion of neoplastic diseases and in the possibility of treating the majority of patients, minimising the impact of cancer and promoting improvements in quality of life and survival time. at the same time, treatments that alleviate suffering became available and there was widespread recognition of the importance of palliative care, allowing those who are struck by more aggressive and extreme forms of cancer to live with dignity. in the face of the impact of the disease and the increased possibilities for response, european citizens have reason to expect more from the european union. there are three priorities to be pursued. firstly, the fight against the preventable causes of cancer, the main cause of which is still tobacco smoke. then, the creation of a system that makes it easy for everyone to access the most modern and effective treatments. finally, support for research at all levels, which will enable us to know more and better fight this disease.
the deplorable attempt to equate fascism with communism absolves and silences the crimes of nazi-fascism and the conniving responsibilities of the great capitalist powers which, with the munich treaty, among others, paved the way for the outbreak of the second world war and the invasion of the soviet union. an accomplice that persists today. they want to erase the decisive contribution of the communists to the defeat of nazi-fascism. their contribution to the liberation of peoples, as in my country, portugal, with the carnation revolution which put an end to the fascist regime. they want to erase their role in improving the living conditions of workers, but they want more, they want to open the way to legitimising and generalising the persecution and banning of communist parties, as is already happening in several member states or in ukraine, with the complicity of the european union. at the same time they tolerate the rehabilitation and historical glorification of fascism. this historical review is obviously intended to divert attention from the european union's permanent confrontation with the aspirations of the peoples and the development of repressive tendencies and practices that limit rights and freedoms.
in writing. europol data: around one per cent of europe's annual gdp is involved in money laundering. for europol, corruption, arms and human trafficking, tax crimes and terrorism have access to this money. practices that are becoming more elaborate, more sophisticated. and cross-border ones. the eu, the council, the commission and the ep have together a strength that they would not have had separately. it is right to acknowledge the commission's attempts to implement the existing rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it is essential that legislation provides tools for exchange, information exchange and financial intelligence that put us on a par with criminals in terms of sophistication, going beyond the current minimum standards. we support the creation of a support and coordination mechanism and a continuous analysis of the flow of information between financial intelligence units, adopting common legal standards, without neglecting the protection and security of personal data. the fight against money laundering and money laundering is the fight against terrorism, it is defending citizens. it's a battle to be fought. together, you know.
the escalation of attacks by the turkish authorities on freedom of the press, human rights activists and political opponents has been a cause of continuous and growing apprehension over the years. the recent acts of persecution against local elected representatives, in a clear attempt to reverse the results of the elections of 31 march, which resulted in the arrest and replacement of mayors who had obtained absolute majorities by suffrage, by unelected administrators, and the intimidation of other local elected representatives, cannot but be the object of our most vivid repudiation. the disregard for the citizens' express vote is a red line which must never be tolerated. the condemnation of kaftancıoğlu - which is understood as a clear reaction to the chp's victory in istanbul - cannot but be the object of our indignation. anti-terrorism legislation and criminal law cannot be used to silence and remove critics of the established power. the european union cannot tolerate the attempt to crush the popular will for change and the constant violations of the rule of law in turkey.
mr president, mrs tuppurainen, mr barnier, i do not want to belittle brexit, on the contrary, but europeans expect there to be more life after brexit. i shall be speaking on the multiannual financial framework from 21 to 27. we're in a race against time. we cannot disappoint the expectations of the citizens who have placed their trust in us. parliament is ready to negotiate the multiannual budget. let me be clear, the council has not yet taken a position. this is a window of opportunity to redefine the size and financing of the budget realistically. the commission proposal is not enough. we need a robust budget and a political agreement by the end of 2019. our position is clear. new own resources are needed. the financing of new challenges cannot be at the expense of traditional policies. for new initiatives, new money. traditional policies need to be modernised so that they are able to support a sustainable and carbon-neutral economic model. next week, all eyes will be on the european council. we're counting on a decision.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. we would like it to be bolder, but above all we are concerned that it is not entirely directed towards public investment, towards investment in infrastructure for the energy transition, in transport systems, in energy efficiency, and that it is abandoned to market mechanisms, which have already proven to be unable to cope with the climate emergency we have to respond to. we are concerned because if the commission wants to continue to talk about a green new deal, then it has to be consistent with the spirit of that programme and that means actually cutting all funding to fossil fuels. we welcome this proposal, we welcome this decision, and we regret the shameful attitude of the european commission which, while outside it continues to talk about the green new deal, in the corridors it is pressing the european investment bank to continue to maintain these financing lines, which in the last four years have directed eur 7.5 billion of financing towards fossil fuels. it has to end.
in writing. ukraine has been suffering from russian aggression since 2014 following the annexation of crimea by russia and the start of hostilities in donbas. since the annexation of crimea, russia has significantly increased its military presence there and its repression of those who do not consider the occupying power legitimate. the european union has implemented various measures, including sanctions, against russia to pressure it to comply with the principles of international law. however, there has been a recent upsurge in calls for a warmer relationship between the european union and russia. a clear example of this is the restoration of the rights of the russian delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. however, it is important that the eu's foreign and security policy remains united on russia and ukraine and that sanctions are not eased or lifted until the reasons for their imposition have been removed.
the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the region. the support given to the 2014 coup d'état opened the door to a junta of a fascist nature. what has happened since then is well known: the proliferation, strengthening and institutional legitimization of fascist militias, the rehabilitation and historical praise of fascism, civil war, the flight of millions of ukrainians to neighbouring countries, the persecution of organisations and activists, in particular the communist party of ukraine, whose process of outlawing is still ongoing and which is prevented from taking part in elections. the recent election of a new president has not changed the political landscape of the country; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union has turned a blind eye to all this, even allocating €15 billion in reform support since 2014. the eu also has responsibilities in the current situation in the country.
mr president, in a european programme to combat cancer, i see a very strong focus on early diagnosis and treatment, which are undoubtedly of great importance, but i would like to remind you that 30 to 50% of cancer cases could be prevented by reducing risk factors and by implementing evidence-based preventive strategies. it is therefore essential that the european parliament, through its envi parliamentary committee, the european commission and the council work more closely together, thus eliminating duplication of effort and making better use of the resources available in order to provide an effective response to our citizens. it is not enough to debate, we need to act and implement measures. citizens want concrete and effective results, they want more investment in cancer research and in the development of new technologies for diagnosis and treatment, and they want better access to medicines. what concrete strategies will the commission adopt to reduce the risk factors determining the development of cancer? i would like to stress that action on these determinants should help to reduce the development of other diseases, in particular other non-communicable diseases, and i would also point out that this is the main cause of death among european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have here an open letter from 10,000 mad scientists, including 19 nobel prize winners, to mrs von der leyen. unfortunately, it's not in the postage stamp, so he probably didn't reach her at all. so a second delivery attempt along this route. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. and she didn't even notice because she's picking out the fiber-optic wallpaper for the new penthouse she's getting built in the commission building. now this content is being assigned to the strange area of innovation and youth. in an age when students take to the streets every friday demanding that science be taken into account at last. i'd find it more innovative and younger, downright funky and, by the way, more promising if the old one would undo the crass nonsense. smiley, please.
mr. speaker, facebook has decided to create its own cryptocurrency, libra, with 28 partners including visa and mastercard as well as the internet platforms uber and booking. the libra association's board of directors will be appointed in geneva on 14 october. there are three dangers that come with creating this cryptocurrency. firstly, it poses a risk to the stability of the financial system and to monetary sovereignty. with more than 2 billion users, facebook will bring tough competition to national currencies, as well as to the euro, especially since the pound is completely flexible in use since it is not governed by any monetary and financial code. secondly, this flexibility will also make the pound an ideal instrument for money laundering, as the us central bank has pointed out. finally, the third danger is that the libra will not offer any reliable protection of users' personal data. for these three reasons, i warn the european parliament against the complacency of mrs lagarde, the president of the ecb, in relation to this new currency. we must fight the pound, which is nothing but a private currency seeking to supplant public currencies.
mr president, the increase in regional disparities is undeniable. the depopulation and desertification of the interior of a country like my own, portugal, is deplorable, but we must assume that the ageing, impoverishment and depopulation of the interior do not have natural causes. the explanation lies in policies which are contrary to the balanced development of the country and the interests of the people, such as deindustrialization, lack of support for family farming, and the absence of incentives to settle populations. schools, health centres and public services are being closed down in the name of budgetary levies and public investment is being limited because of the deficit. it is clear to us that policies to develop the countryside must necessarily involve a different budget and a multiannual financial framework which reinforces and does not cut the cohesion funds and improves the absorption of these funds, a profound modification of the cap which protects and enhances local and family farming, the enhancement of national production and support for the productive sectors, the modernisation and enhancement of rail transport and the road network and the recognition of the people who, despite the adversities, continue to resist and live in the countryside.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to draw attention to the following: it is time to meet the expectations of the citizens. that's what we're here for. we have an obligation to provide financial resources commensurate with the political commitments and ambitions of the union. the resolution confirms the position of parliament in the november 2018 progress report, but now with renewed legitimacy. the negotiating mandate is updated in line with the election results of may 2019. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. only this amount allows us to continue to support, in a robust way, cohesion and agricultural policies, but also innovation and investment, migration policy, foreign and defence policy or the implementation of a strong european pillar of social rights. we support the principle of mainstreaming climate issues into all policies and a just transition to a carbon-neutral economy, based on the highest standards of social justice, leaving no one behind. we are calling for the creation of a new mechanism to protect the budget of the european union whenever the rule of law is not respected. we welcome the political commitments made by mrs van der leyen in relation to additional initiatives, but we reiterate that for new initiatives new money. we are waiting for a concrete proposal on the european green deal. we welcome the commitments made by the president-elect to relaunch legislative proposals in order to build a pool of new own resources. it will be a good time for a reform of the european union's financing system, in line with the main political priorities. parliament is ready to start negotiations on the 21-27 budget and own resources. it is time for the council to start negotiations with parliament on the budget and on the aspects of the sectoral legislation creating the new european union programmes as well as the rule of law proposal. we must reach a solid agreement without delay, avoiding a time gap between the end of this financial framework and the beginning of the next, and responding to the expectations of the citizens.
madam president, commissioner hahn, madam minister, these are troubling times. europe is about to go through one of its most challenging moments due to an irresponsible government in the uk that is willing to risk everything just for electoral reasons. this has been the case with the conservative party in the uk for a number of years now. the european council therefore has to decide how we face this situation. the economic risks for the eu are significant ones. the downturn is coming, and we need to provide a strong budget now so that we can provide confidence to investors and promote growth in cohesion and the eu. instead, we face several members of the council that want to cut the proposed budget even further. as the president of the commission has said, it is simply not enough. we have finally just now had a member of this parliament – coming from the epp – defending the same position as these members of the european council. it is clear now from where these kind of positions come. these are not acceptable. we need more europe. we need to face this situation with more europe, not with less budget as proposed by several members of the council.
on behalf of the id group. the european union is not doing better and comparison, madam rapporteur, is not right. the european union is made up of completely disparate economies, with social, economic and regulatory situations that have nothing to do with each other. this report is also full of ideology and bias, which is reflected in the inclusion of turkey in your data and in the constant concern for the integration of immigrants into the labour market, to the detriment of our more modest compatriots. we will therefore of course vote against this report and support the alternative resolution by our colleague guido reil because it is much more necessary to restore the sovereignty of the states in matters of economic and social policy, and because it is just as necessary to allow them to give priority to european union nationals in employment matters.
the social and employment policies that have been implemented in the euro area countries have been subjected to a treaty that is designed to criminalise any left-wing or progressive policy. the social and employment policies in my country since we joined the euro have meant social regression, income destruction, reduced working class rights, mass emigration, charity and welfare. we therefore do not subscribe to socializing views of the european semester and economic governance. the country-specific recommendations also emphasise this path. as they say in my country, you cannot have sun in the rain and rain in the snow, that is to say, we cannot want to end poverty and social exclusion, promote a general increase in wages, guarantee a public network of free and universal childcare, end the scourge of longterm youth employment or guarantee a dignified life for our elderly and at the same time defend the draconian rules of the euro. for us, there is no doubt. the continuous and sustained raising of labour and social rights, of the standard of living of those who have less and can do less, will only be achieved when the constraints of the euro are broken with the budget treaty and the stability and growth pact. (the speaker refuses to answer a question by mr tomáš zdechovský)
mr president, commissioner, the european union has shown over the years strong signs of solidarity with the different member states, and there are many examples i could list here, but i will concentrate on what really matters, the people. during the passage of hurricane lorenzo in the azores, an outermost region, on 2 october this year, some 255 incidents were recorded and 53 people had to be relocated. the passage of this hurricane caused the total destruction of the port of lajes in flores, which put at risk the supply to the western group of the azores archipelago. according to the regional government of the azores, the damage caused by the hurricane is estimated at eur 330 million. mr president, i call on the european commission once again to show that we are stronger together. it's time to show that we're ruling for the people and that we're attentive to their needs. i therefore call for the solidarity fund to be mobilised quickly and for the funds to be reprogrammed to help the people of the azores cope with the enormous losses.
mr president, mr commissioner, we have all spoken here of solidarity, in this case with spain and the autonomous region of the azores, an outermost region, and we all think that the word solidarity is a very dear word in all european policies. we have just heard the commissioner give us a number of perspectives from which this solidarity can be put into practice. i sincerely believe that, as has been said just now by isabel and josé manuel fernandes and others, what is at stake here is not just the list of hypotheses, but putting those hypotheses into practice. and what i find is that there are, in some cases or in some situations, the surveys made, in others not even that, but populations and companies and people, as has been mentioned, people who have unfortunately disappeared, grieving families, but also people displaced, without property, without equipment, with economic life destroyed. and if there is a moment when this solidarity fund, in good time created and adjusted, in addition to the other mechanisms, but tend to be put on the ground at the right time. the president of the portuguese republic said yesterday that this matter must never be forgotten. we will not let it fall into oblivion, and that is our appeal to the commission.
mr president, when hurricane lorenzo struck the azores, it caused enormous material damage, but it should be noted that, fortunately, there was no personal damage. this is thanks to the action of the civil protection of the regional government of the azores and the enormous awareness of the azoreans when they are faced with a hurricane of that intensity. the most serious damage, as has already been said, is that to the port of lajes de flores, whose operation is essential for the supply of all kinds of essential goods to the two islands, the populations of flores and corvo. this requires a rapid response, which is why portuguese s&d meps sent a question to the european commission as early as 3 october. the s&d group members did not come to this issue twenty days later for reasons of internal party guerrilla warfare. we understand that we have to be all united to find answers to people's problems. these replies go through the solidarity fund, but, commissioner, 2.5 per cent of support is not enough for 330 million in damages. we need more, much more european solidarity for the azoreans and we will be here to remind you that this must deserve a response from the european union.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation. the previous action plan had ended at the end of 2016 and this was followed by a prolonged silence that lasts until today. the truth is that it is a grave mistake to downplay this epidemic. there are more than 800 000 europeans living with hiv infection. 120,000 of them don't know they're carrying the virus. year after year there are 25,000 new cases diagnosed, and that number has not decreased. to combat the hiv/aids epidemic we need to keep this issue at the centre of political attention and we need an appropriate strategy from the european union. to give up is a very serious mistake and the european parliament, on behalf of the citizens of europe, has an obligation to insist that the new european commission resumes an action plan on this matter.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr juncker for having respected the principle of respect for diversity throughout his term of office. and maybe one day we can understand the importance of that principle. the european council conclusions on the multiannual financial framework do not reflect the 27 member states' differences on the finnish presidency's proposal. we know that the vast majority of the member states disagree with the presidency. it ignores the position of parliament recently endorsed by this house, it ignores the recommendations of the european commission, it ignores the political commitments of mrs von der leyen. we are therefore afraid that the negotiating box proposal is at odds with what the institutions, politicians and leaders should do in the next seven years. but parliament will not fail to exercise its powers and will negotiate a robust budget. we want a budget by 1 january 2021, but we are not ready to compromise the budget on the calendar. i would remind you that the european parliament has been ready to negotiate since november last year.
in writing. madam president, we are knocking on the door of hell. there's too much at stake in europe and the uk. it is now clear that people in the uk have been misled by this simplistic slogan of "taking our destiny back into our own hands". the slogan authors had nothing to offer, and all they left was a pile of problems. for our part, europe has come together on brexit, albeit too late. let us stand together through the difficult times ahead. let us take this example and unite where we have lacked unity: on the future of europe and the euro, on the ambition of the new budget and the new priorities, on migration, on enlargement. we have answered the call of the european citizens in the last elections: let us unite for more europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner oettinger, ministers, the budget proposal we are discussing is less than necessary and requires amendments. meanwhile, in the next hundred days, the commission will present the climate law. it is a priority of the european union to finance a just transition to a carbon-neutral economy based on the highest standards of social justice. my point is simple, and i put it because i think we always have to learn. for the next financial framework 2021-2027, what we have on the table from the commission, and now from the council, translates into annual budgets even lower than this year 2020 and this will make it truly unrealistic to meet expectations and commitments. the european commission and the council, on the one hand, in view of the political commitments made and, on the other, in view of the necessary amendments to the proposal for the 2020 budget which are to be adopted by this house, must adjust their positions for the next multiannual financial framework and bring them closer to the real needs and the position of parliament.
madam president, this is one of those moments that doesn't allow for half-words or silences. the turkish military offensive in north-east syria is a serious violation of international law, threatens the already fragile stability and security in the region, has led to the forced displacement of populations weakened by a long conflict and has opened the door to a possible resurgence of daesh. it cannot pass without a firm condemnation. the european council's initiative to impose an arms embargo, while welcome, is not enough. it should extend to all ongoing supplies and go further by adopting sanctions targeting individuals directly or indirectly involved in violations of human rights and economic interests. it must be made very clear that the european union will not be blackmailed, that we will continue to provide humanitarian support to syrian refugees and to the neighbouring countries that are hosting them, but we reject any forced return operation. the return of these citizens to their country can only be done of their own free will and once conditions are created for them to do so in dignity and safety. the european union cannot support any social reengineering operation. in this difficult moment we cannot fail to highlight the courage of the kurdish people and the democratic forces of syria in fighting alongside the international coalition against daesh and in drawing the appropriate consequences from this, while maintaining our solidarity.
madam president, in 2016 the european union signed with turkey an eu facility that was, is, aimed at supporting the 3.5 million refugees, 0.7% of the population of the european union of 28, who are in turkey. but it is worth remembering that it was the closure of borders, the restrictive view of the dublin agreement, whose revision some member states continue to block, and the lack of solidarity of some member states of the union towards the member states which had received more refugees that created the need for this mechanism. since then turkey has systematically blackmailed the european union by threatening to open the doors, and now it is doing so again. although turkey is claiming security reasons, which are always legitimate, this military operation in northeastern syria must be stopped, there is no military solution. the european union must act with one voice and mobilise its influence by working with the united nations to achieve peace in this massacred region of the world.
madam president, military intervention in syria is not a matter of the moment. this military intervention in syria has been going on for eight years and those responsible are the united states of america and the major powers of the european union, which together with other nato members such as turkey and other allies such as israel, saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and qatar have contributed to the organisation and arming of terrorist groups, to the murder of thousands of people and the forced displacement of millions more, and to the destruction and disruption of the social, economic and patrimonial fabric of a country. the position of this parliament and of the other institutions of the european union, as well as of the governments of several of its member countries, which are trying to create an image of distancing themselves from this new military aggression against syria, is absolutely hypocritical. condemning turkey is not enough. it is essential to put an end to the destabilisation and external aggression against the syrian arab republic and to defend its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, in compliance with international law and the principles of the united nations charter.
madam president, sometimes we need to explain why we need to do something. but not today. today, our businesses, our cities and our people ask us and want us to act to stop global warming, to stop deforestation, to stop climate change. climate change will not slow down because of single actions, because climate change knows no borders. from china to the us, australia and many places in the world, climate change affects us all. we can only win if we work together, leaving no one behind. we must act on coal. we must act on aviation fuel tax exemptions. fossil fuels belong to the past and together we must look into the future of energy. it’s time to let go of old technologies. it’s time to create and fund new ones. let’s push europe forward. let’s invest more in science and innovation. let’s make trade deals that fulfil the paris agreement. we face that choice. either we act together or climate will change us all.
in writing. climate change requires an effective response by the commission that accompanies the recognised urgency of the situation. on the basis of the available scientific data, in line with the climate change already observed, such as sea level rise and increased forest fires, among other calamities, decisive action is needed to allow for a clear decarbonisation. the commission will have to show commitment on this issue and will have to allocate resources to environmental issues in order to achieve the targets set for 2030 and 2050. the member states must also commit themselves to complying with the legislation produced by the european union, to strengthening the adoption of more ambitious plans in line with the 2050 objectives and to implementing the plans approved by each state.
mr president, i cannot help confessing my deep disappointment at this moment, the same disappointment i share with the people of albania and north macedonia, as they see their aspirations to join the european union officially blocked after the expectations created by the letter from the commission, the european parliament and the european council. both countries have met the criteria for opening talks and have implemented the reforms that have been requested so far and which cannot be stopped. in this decision, the council became hostage to mr macron's decision-making process and impulses and opened the door for other actors to pursue their agenda in a region that is crucial for stability, security and the strengthening of the european project. if the european union is not able to show strategic vision, leadership and to assert itself as a credible partner, it risks being dragged into disrepute. the council has failed, but we here in parliament will continue to fight to fulfil our promise.
mr. president, primary health care is the most efficient and cost-effective way for us to achieve universal health coverage. but to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, we need to accelerate the pace. when we look at the concentration of human resources in health, it's high in large urban areas, causing a shortage of resources in more remote areas. madeira and porto santo, as islands in an ultra-peripheral region, are examples of this reality, where only 64% of the inhabitants have a family doctor assigned to them, leaving a third of the population without a doctor responsible for managing their health. we need mechanisms from the european union to support member states in creating and implementing health-promoting policies, with increased investment in all areas of health, from socioeconomic and environmental determinants to health care delivery services. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. and since health is ultimately a political choice, we can make that decision. if we don't invest in health, we're divesting from our society. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8)))
blue-card answer. – thank you, colleague, for your question. it is important that member states receive the necessary support to tackle these constraints they have in providing health care. and human resources for health is, without a doubt, one of the main problems we have that will allow citizens to receive and get access to proper healthcare. if we have remote areas that don’t have the proper human resources for health, that means our citizens are not getting access to the healthcare they deserve.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. the arbitrary detention of some 4 300 people following these peaceful demonstrations is in line with the actions of an authoritarian government which does not respect freedom of expression and association and which uses intimidation, promotes the trial of civilians in military courts, in a country where there are reports of enforced disappearances, death sentences, including of children, and where the principles of democracy and the rule of law are constantly put in question. the european union cannot remain indifferent. it should support civil society and use all means at its disposal to pressure egypt to respect human rights. and member states should implement the measures announced in 2013: suspension of any supply of technological equipment, weapons and other goods that could be used for internal repression, torture or the application of the death penalty.
mr president, the convention on the rights of the child states in article 19 that states must take all measures to protect the child against all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or wanton treatment, ill-treatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse. however, according to the 2018 report on human trafficking within the european union, 20,532 victims were recorded between 2015 and 2016, of which 23% were children. we are talking about 4,723 children who have been exploited by human trafficking networks, and more than half of them have been trafficked for sexual exploitation. and here we cannot fail to stress that women are the most affected. these are truly alarming figures. although there is already a strategy to eradicate trafficking in human beings in europe, we need to redouble our efforts to ensure that this scourge is also effectively combated in the member states, by severely punishing those responsible and, above all, by protecting the victims.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. we socialists and democrats are very concerned about the political instability in bolivia and the violence that followed the elections, after irregularities were detected and recognized by both the european union and the organization of american states. we hope that all bolivian parties will assume their democratic responsibility and organise new elections as soon as possible, ensuring to that end adequate resources in the field of monitoring so that the results are transparent, reliable and credible. we fully agree that the european union must prepare itself, not only for this important phase of transitional aid, as has been shown here, but also for the launch of a new election observation mission in bolivia, to which i am also pleased to know that it has already committed itself.
madam president, i want to pay tribute to patricia arce, the indigenous mayor of vinto, who was dragged from her office last week by a right-wing anti-government mob, who cut off her hair, covered her in red paint and paraded her barefoot on the streets, before forcing her to sign a resignation letter. the town hall was also torched and ransacked. under president morales, the indigenous and poor of bolivia have seen their rights and their standard of living increase. inequality is the greatest scourge in our world today, but taking from the rich and giving to the poor always threatens the elite: the big businesses, the large corporations and in this case american interests. jeanine áñez has now declared herself interim president, endorsed by bolivia’s constitutional court. well, the country’s constitution states that when a new president comes without an electoral process, an election must be called within 90 days. so a new electoral court should be appointed, offering guarantees of transparent elections as well as ensuring election observers from across the world. free, fair and peaceful elections are the only way to unite the country.
madam president, what has happened in bolivia since the elections on 20 october has only one name: coup d'état. the expressed will of the people has dictated the re-election of evo morales as president of the plurinational republic of bolivia. the reactionary and anti-democratic forces of bolivia, with the complicity of the police and military forces, supported by unacceptable external pressures and interference, did not accept the result and carried out a violent terrorist action against the bolivian popular movements, their leaders and state officials. the multiple calls for dialogue and initiatives for a political solution, spearheaded by evo morales, have been of no avail. it is a coup d'état that is part of the offensive of us imperialism in latin america, with the real aim of defeating the process of sovereign affirmation of economic and social progress and emancipation that has been taking place in bolivia since 2006. we must reject this coup d'état and stand in solidarity with the bolivian people, defending their democracy, their sovereignty and their peace.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, as i know that we are running late, i will only take a few minutes to say, first of all, that most of the views that were expressed on this point will obviously guide our action in the coming weeks and months, and those of the next commission, i’m sure. be sure that what happens in chile will always be at the centre of our attention because of the ties that are there – not only economic ties, but as i said, social ties, even family ties. it’s a country that, because of history and culture, is very close to europe, and this is why we will continue to be at the side of chile in this delicate moment. let me also conclude by expressing my thanks for the work that parliament has been doing and is doing in its relations with chile. i want to conclude with that, in particular on chile, but also on other situations. the work that you do with parliamentary diplomacy is vital to the work of european union diplomacy, and i want to thank you for that. representing the vibrant european democracy with a variety of views – it is extremely important, your engagement, your constant work with the parliaments around the world, but also with civil society, human rights activists and the private sector. i believe this is an integral part of our work, and i would like to use this opportunity to thank you also for the work you’re doing to keep the ties between the european people and the people in chile through parliamentary diplomacy work.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
millions of people have taken to the streets in chile and have resisted the violent repression by the police and military forces under the government of president piñera. in this way, in two weeks, they have brought down the recurring fallacy of the "exemplary chilean economic model", which was implemented from 1973 onwards with the imposition of a brutal and bloody fascist dictatorship in chile, whose neoliberal policies translate, among other serious aspects, into a brutal intensification of exploitation and the destruction of the central role of the state in ensuring democratic rights (social, economic, cultural), in particular by privatizing virtually all spheres of economic life, public services (health, education, transport) and social security, handing them over to large monopoly groups. chile has become, in recent decades, one of the most unequal countries in the world, and the chilean people are in the streets demanding a change of policy and the end of the constitutional regime that supports them. they deserve our full solidarity.
in writing. there are policies that unite us and policies that divide us. but in the case of the emergency that is everyone's fight against climate change, i think, with a few honorable exceptions, it is much more what unites us than what divides us. i have no great doubt, therefore, that at the end of the day the european parliament will declare, by a clear vote, the climate emergency: reduce emissions by 55% in general, reduce emissions from the maritime and aviation sectors, create a fund to mitigate the economic and social effects of these changes. this position we are preparing to take is, some might say, a declaratory one. i might. but it's a sign of political commitment that we give to the world. it's a warning we've added to many others on the eve of the un climate conference. we're going to declare a climate emergency. now we're making ourselves heard. tomorrow we will act. we have to act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that this debate tonight is a painful one for me. it is a painful debate not only because of the memory of the many women and sisters who have been threatened, insulted, raped and killed by male violence, but also because of the small number of colleagues present who have not even felt the need to pay tribute to the memory of these women. but it is a painful debate, ladies and gentlemen, and mr president, also because of the violent and serious things i have heard from that side of the house. i find the words i have heard from my colleagues in the ecr, the id group and the right wing of this house intolerable. it is intolerable to deny again the urgency and the need to ratify the istanbul convention. one woman in three, one woman in three, who could be your daughter, your sister, your friend, is a victim of violence in europe. so it is unacceptable to accept that the urgency of ratifying this convention is being denied. i think it is unacceptable, mr president, to hear again and again in this house the words we have heard. the time to act is now, never again! and then the countries that have not ratified the convention - bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania, slovakia, the united kingdom - should be ashamed of themselves! (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is something that must be condemned in the strongest terms. i personally believe that any man who touches a woman is a scoundrel who deserves severe punishment. but that's not going to happen through this document. and it's not going to happen through this document, because it's not designed to save women from violence. i've heard hundreds of names of victims of domestic violence, and they were from countries that have ratified, signed this convention. what did she protect them with? how did you help them? no, it didn't. why would you do that? because this document has another purpose and another task. this document mixes the legitimate issue of women's rights with the absurd and controversial lgbtqi... the latter to close the door, propaganda, same-sex marriage, social gender roles. i may surprise you, but gender is not a social construct. he is biology. it may surprise you, but there are countries in europe that still believe that the family is a voluntary marriage between a man, a woman and their children, and we don't want that to change. i'm from bulgaria, we are against this convention, we have not signed it and we will not sign it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is one of the countries which has signed and ratified the istanbul convention, and yet the figures are alarming: 142 women were killed in 2018, 94 in the first 10 months of 2019, 14,000 complaints of stalking, 17,000 complaints of mistreatment. but the situation in the other countries of the european union is no better. it's 2019, and gender violence comes in many forms, not just physical, not just psychological. gender inequality is also wage inequality: you think women have to work 66 more days to earn as much as men. what do these figures mean? that more effort is needed, that the convention must be properly applied, otherwise there are only fine words on a piece of paper. in italy we have now made a great step forward with the code red law, but more steps still have to be taken and here in europe we must show the way. we need to invest more in education, we need to fund anti-violence centres all over europe and above all we need to talk about it, talk about it all the time and not just on 25 november.
we now come to the spontaneous verbal communications. i've got almost twice as many word messages as we can take. that is why i ask for your understanding if i cannot take all of them into account. spontaneous speech
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every woman has the right to be protected from violence. the most dangerous place for a woman is her home, because that is where the most violent people are: as partners, as former partners, as family members. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the illegal trade in human beings. right now, the holidays are about to get especially dangerous. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. it's about derailed control fantasies, wounded egos, that result from the fundamentally unequal distribution of power and resources in our society. we can do something about this by ratifying the istanbul convention. it is true of poland, it is true of austria, it is true of estonia, it is true of italy, it is true of all of europe.
mr. chairman, i would believe the istanbul convention to be exclusively about violence against women, children or any other violence, not about imposing some new social norms. indeed, if we want to fight violence against women, then we would not remove women and children from their homes and create additional stress for them, but we would remove the abuser. ladies and gentlemen, have you ever been to one of these safe houses? do you think they're really safe? do you know how many times the abuser broke into those houses, abused the women in front of the children, in front of other women? and the government agencies didn't want to report it because they didn't get the money, they wouldn't get the money for it. so let's get the abuser out of the house. let's get him to go to anger-control and then i'll believe something will happen. so, when we fight violence like this, then i will believe in the istanbul convention, and then abused women will report that violence much more. and this is just a play on words.
mr president, violence against women can take many forms, with dramatic expression in domestic violence, but also in prostitution or violence at work. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one. the fight against violence against women is therefore inseparable from the elimination of labour exploitation, inequalities and discrimination between men and women, and is inseparable from the commitment to fulfil women's rights, to create the conditions for them to live, work and participate on an equal basis. in addition to combating the economic and social causes of exploitation, inequalities and discrimination, which in themselves feed and reproduce the various dimensions of violence, it is essential to tackle cultural factors, by intervening to overcome prejudices and stereotypes, by stimulating the change of behaviour and mentality, by raising social awareness that equality in life is not only a just aspiration of women but also a condition for progress, social justice and democratization of peoples.
madam president, job insecurity is a plague that affects young and old alike and has serious repercussions on their working lives, but also on their future pensions. the causes of this precariousness are well known: low wages, irregular working hours, whether by shift work or by overloading working hours and mechanisms such as time banks; unstable work ties that do not protect workers in case of illness or unemployment, for example, research grants, internships, green vouchers, which deprive workers of social support; digital platforms that, under the guise of modernity, deprive their workers of their rights. precariousness has entered the vocabulary and the lives of workers and the unemployed and tends to be normalised. for example, the proportion of temporary workers in my country is higher than the european average. it's hard to get employment rights or get into a career, and even those in the career see obstacles to advancement. the european union is promoting this path. for us, precariousness and the reduction of labour rights are not an inevitability, they are an option which will always be opposed by us.
madam president, i take this opportunity to draw attention once again to the violent attacks which continue to be perpetrated against indigenous peoples by the ruthless extractive industries, often without a response in time, if not with the consent of the political powers. this is the case in brazil, colombia, bolivia, ecuador, venezuela and other countries in latin america, which has become the deadliest region for indigenous peoples and environmentalists. the recent death of paulo paulino of the guajajara tribe in brazil, or the attack on the nasa community in southwestern colombia in which five people were killed, are just recent examples illustrating an unacceptable reality. violence, intimidation, harassment and forced displacement of indigenous communities are increasingly common. the european union must be proactive in defending these communities. the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and ilo convention 169 are clear in the rules and limits they set. we must use the instruments at our disposal to ensure that they are complied with.
madam president, to the presidency of the council and to first vice—president timmermans, i want to say that europe really needs institutions that work. tomorrow, we’ll face a vote for the new commission and the opportunity to really start meeting citizens’ expectations. it is time to deliver on decarbonisation, on the european pillar of social rights, and on a fair digital economy. the commission has indeed an ambitious agenda in which we recognise many of our proposals, but we won’t come even close to europeans’ hopes and dreams if we keep stalling everything that is relevant. in one word, we need to put our money where our mouth is. so let us demand from the council nothing less than an ambitious budget for the next term. it is time to stop demanding more and more from the european policies, while wanting to pay even less for it. we can do it. we can bridge the gaps by bringing own resources to the table. it is time to go back to basics. this union is about sharing a common dream of peace and sustainable development for all and, in this case, solidarity pays back through the reinforcement of the single market. therefore it benefits all europe, particularly those that tend to say that they just pay for the others. quo vadis, europe? where are the resources we need for the new priorities to come alive?
mr president, i would like to begin by joining those who have congratulated the rapporteurs on this 2020 budget. in fact, from what i was given to observe - i was a passive rather than an active agent - they did indeed do an excellent job in the final stage of the negotiations. and why do i say this? i say this because what has been achieved in this budget, compared with the commission's proposal, has indeed been significant progress and has been significant progress in what are the priorities of this parliament. i am going to start with the climate issue, with the issue of research and innovation, but also with the young people. the youth employment programme, the youth guarantee and the erasmus programme were used to provide answers to young people. that said, am i satisfied with the result? you can't be satisfied with the result. i think that this result is insufficient to finance the challenges of the european union in 2020, but it is the result that has been achieved, and so it is with this budget that we will be living in 2020. my concern also arises, as it must, from the fact that i am the rapporteur for the multiannual financial framework, and i would like to say the following: firstly, the figure of 0.99% is indeed a very low figure compared with the programme and the ambition of this parliament. what we need in the multiannual financial framework is an amount which is actually sufficient to finance the political priorities of the european union and above all the political priorities which we are going to vote on tomorrow when we elect the commission, because we are actually voting on a political programme. finally, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his commitment to transferring this way of getting the institutions to cooperate to his successor in the future commission.
madam president! the consequences of climate change are hurricanes, floods, droughts, avalanches, but most of all, human tragedies. every year there are fewer days of snow and more days of sunshine. this affects human health and has costs for the economy and agriculture. extreme weather events are destroying our homes and threatening our cultural heritage. increasingly frequent droughts are causing millions of people to migrate. we must be aware that existing systems such as copernicus and funds such as the european union solidarity fund allow us to warn of natural disasters or to remedy their effects, but they do not prevent them. without tackling climate change, without realizing that it's not just europe that has to pay the price, but the whole world, led by big corporations, is obliged to fight global warming and emissions, without thinking about the responsibility for future generations, we will be dealing with more and more, bearing more and more costs and mourning more and more victims.
madam president, as we know, disasters are deeply unjust: the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt. if there is one area where solidarity in the european union and the principle of cohesion should have a visible expression, it is in the protection of people, the economy and the environment in the face of disasters. the problem of disasters has been the subject of several resolutions in this parliament. follow-up is necessary because of the recommendations, by putting them into practice. this is the case with the creation of a financial framework appropriate to disaster prevention, which allows, among other measures, the correction of risk-inducing situations. unfortunately, very little has been done and the european commission bears particular responsibility for this delay. we believe that a community approach to disaster prevention should include, as a central concern, the reduction of disparities between regions and member states in this area, in particular by helping to improve prevention in regions and member states with high risk exposure and lower economic capacity.
madam president, just for the interpreters, i’m going to start with a quote in german and then switch again to english. „ich bin schwul, und das ist auch gut so!“became a very famous sentence in germany, but also over the borders, pronounced in 2001 by the mayor of berlin, klaus wowereit. in the meantime, 2005, i also became a mayor of a rural municipality and i fell in love with a woman, so i remembered this sentence and i was happy to live in a region where nobody would judge me or discriminate against me because of this love. indeed, the european union is founded on the values of respect for freedom, equality and respect for human rights. today, things are changing and we discuss public discrimination of lgbti people in the heart of the european union. what we are seeing more and more is a rise of the public endorsement of anti—lgbti propaganda and lgbti—free zones, even from mayors. but how can we accept that so many lgbti citizens in the european union have to hide who they are and who they love out of fear for their life? let’s not forget the common values of the european treaties. we want the commission to react on this.
madam president, the rise of extreme and populist movements has dragged lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people into political confrontations full of hatred and violence, with deplorable attacks on human rights and which easily turn from words to acts of physical violence. contrary to what many would like to try to sell, there is no ideological coup by those who defend human rights and lgbti rights. but there is an ideology of hate, promoted by conservative political ideologies, that feeds ignorance, normalizes fear, and makes attempts to suppress equality and restrict freedoms that should never be questioned. it is time to put the protection of lgbti people at the top of the agenda for integrated policy action at european level. the european commission, this parliament and national and international institutions have a responsibility to unite against discrimination and hatred, together with the other civil society organisations that have been doing this work for years and that are often, so often, isolated and without any support. we want a europe and a world free of hatred and discrimination, not the other way around.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, this commission is not responding to any of the problems of the european union. everything that's worse doesn't change and everything that changes, changes for the worse. the only language of the commission for economic policy remains that of austerity and the choice for the vice-president for economic affairs is a confirmation of this continuity. all the policies that would allow us to respond to the need to overcome the austerity paradigm are under-subordinated. the cohesion policy is to be cut back drastically, and the new commission has already said that it will support it. the green new deal has a portfolio, it has a vice president, and it has a commissioner who is making public statements asking for funding for its policies, policies that it hasn't yet taken the trouble to present to us. the eurozone budget is a mountain of money, a small financial envelope to implement the structural austerity reforms that the european commission has not yet been able to impose on the member states. this commission will be approved because the majority of members of this house would prefer a political deadlock of five years to an institutional deadlock of a few months. no enthusiasm, no hope, no project of change can mobilize this house for its committee.
madam president, madam president of the european commission, we really need to get to work. you will have the support of this political group because you have taken our proposals on board and because you have some of our best people on your team. but a good programme or speech will be nothing more than pretty words if it is not implemented without apology and with sufficient resources. it is time to unite around the future of europe. co2 emissions don't wait for our hesitations, as we've seen with the fires and floods across europe. china and the united states appreciate our hesitation in leading the digitization. the poorest in europe and those dying in the mediterranean cannot cross the sea of indifference alone. so it's time to act. i am counting on this parliament to take the initiative, and we are counting on you to build bridges with and within the council. we must live up to the expectations of our citizens.
in may this year, the citizens of europe gave us a very clear message: they want a europe that is different, a europe that has been transformed, a europe that is once again a space of opportunity. the socialist group is very clear about our work over the next five years. we are going to work for a greener europe, a more feminist europe, a more social europe. and we expect the commission to act responsibly too. we hope you will act with courage. we will allow them even to make mistakes; what we will never allow is that they resign, that they become immobile, that they are not able to face the challenges and the challenges that europe needs. so let's be vigilant; let's be committed; let's cooperate; let's have control. but i am sure that we have five years of hard work ahead of us to give back hope to the citizens outside this parliament in the project that european men and women expect from us.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we live in a time when extreme positions are popular and prevalent on social media. that is why the presentation by ursula von der leyen is so beneficial today: to seek the balance, to practice together, to put the offer on the table, to work together for this continent. it has presented us today with a strong team, willing to take action, motivated, and we have the opportunity today to give this team a democratic mandate. the commissioners came into office through their member states, through the council. but they will be successful in leaving office, along with parliament. they depend on our support, on our being able to build a partnership between parliament and the commission at the end of the day and to work together for this united europe. that's the responsibility we have. and when i hear in the final round how the left and unfortunately many, many right-wingers in this house are already agitating against the new commission and are again attacking and refusing to take responsibility, then the best answer we can give today is a strong 'yes' to this commission. let's start to deliver, let's deliver a strong and united european union.
we shall now proceed to the vote. i should like to inform you that, exceptionally, the explanations of vote are postponed until tomorrow. i would remind you that explanations of vote may also be submitted in writing. ladies and gentlemen, under rule 125 of the rules of procedure, parliament elects or dismisses the commission by a majority of the votes cast by roll-call. after the vote, i will announce the results of the vote. if the commission receives a majority of the votes cast, i shall sign the forwarding letter announcing parliament's approval, hand it to the president of the commission and inform the council. on this basis, the european council will formally appoint the commission. (election of the commission by roll call) the resolution was adopted by 461 votes in favour, 157 against and 89 abstentions. (applause from the centre and the right) before i sign the appointment, i would like to say to the whole of parliament, the commission and the council that we are very proud of the work that the european parliament has done. it was a democratic, serious and transparent process, in accordance with the treaties and the rules and regulations of our parliament. i would like to thank the committees, their chairmen, all the members and the political groups. i would like to emphasize the great work done by the administration of parliament. finally, i would like to thank the press and the media for their attention to the work of our institution. i wish president von der leyen and the new commission every success. now we sign the letter and i have to come and deliver it to you. (applause from the left)
president-in-office of thecouncil. – mr president, i congratulate honourable members for concluding their vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2020. the council notes with satisfaction that the parliament confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 18 november with such wide political support from here. i take this opportunity to once again thank the chair of the committee on budgets, johan van overtveld, and the rapporteurs, monika hohlmeier and eider gardiazabal rubial, as well as all other members of parliament who participated in the budgetary procedure, for your constructive approach. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his support of this work. (applause)
the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee on 18 november was approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure was implemented in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2020 can therefore be considered to be concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2020 definitively adopted and shall now proceed to sign it. that concludes the voting.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, john f. kennedy once said: ‘the ignorance of one voter in a democracy impairs the security of all’. i believe that maliciously-influenced or misled voters could pose a similar risk to our societies. evolving malicious interference and online manipulation shows that this risk to our democratic institutions is real and requires our constant attention. we are therefore grateful for this new opportunity to engage with you on this important topic. let me repeat that our presidency’s priority is to make sustained efforts to raise awareness, increase preparedness and strengthen the resilience of our democracies to disinformation. hybrid threats, including foreign interference in our democracies, remain, therefore, at the top of our political agenda. the presidency has taken a number of steps, in particular a dedicated and permanent horizontal working party of the council was created during the first month of our presidency. it discusses how to strengthen the eu’s capabilities in countering hybrid threats and to build resilience in the eu and member states. the mandate of the group includes election interference and disinformation campaigns. we have proposed council conclusions to be adopted in december on complementary efforts to enhance resilience and counter hybrid threats, building on the important work done at the eu level in recent years. the conclusions also pay attention to countering disinformation and securing free and fair elections. the last debate held in this house in september sought broad agreement that foreign interference and disinformation pose a major threat to democracy and eu values. without a doubt, the eu institutions and the member states have an important role to play; this is in the remit of their competencies in the protection of democratic processes. it is therefore appropriate that protecting european democracy is also a priority for president von der leyen. we have in particular noted with great interest that vice-president jourová will be responsible for coordinating the work on a europe and democracy action plan that will include a set of initiatives. this will require a focus on building up resilience and countering disinformation while pursuing and protecting fundamental freedoms. countering hybrid threats requires a comprehensive approach and a horizontal working method. this is why the work needs to be done in close alignment with all relevant stakeholders in the eu institutions as well as in the member states to enhance the eu’s ability to prevent, detect and respond to hybrid threats. protection of our democracies and elections involves concerted efforts by the eu and the member states, but also by civil society and industry. our response has to be comprehensive, with a focus on both the internal and external dimensions of the threat. much has been done already, both by the eu institutions and individual member states. let me just briefly mention the main milestones, such as regular exchanges in the european election cooperation network, setting up the rapid alert system, enhancement of strategic communication, facilitating networks of independent fact checkers, promotion of media and digital literacy and awareness-raising activities, and monitoring of the implementation of the code of practice by social media platforms. but it is also important that we further develop institutional mechanisms and tools to fulfil the objectives set by the european council. it is also essential to continue developing partnerships, especially our cooperation with nato. in this regard, the helsinki european centre of excellence for countering hybrid threats also contributes to fostering cooperation in this field. likewise, disinformation strategies by foreign actors are deployed beyond our borders. so we need to work with partners in the eastern and southern neighbourhood and in the western balkans. as stressed in the conclusions on democracy adopted by the council last month, exposing disinformation, effective scrutiny over the financing of political messaging, strengthening media, information and digital literacy skills are key elements in this regard. we need to act together in a structured and coordinated way in order to tackle these challenges. protecting elections is at the core of defending our european values.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to take the floor on the issue of interference from other countries in our democracies and elections. the commission has been deeply engaged in broad efforts to address the manifold risks stemming from lack of transparency, disinformation and other manipulations of electoral and democratic processes, and is committed to strengthening this path in the upcoming term. indeed, as we heard from the presidency, it will be one of my biggest tasks in the new commission. thank you for the support. the conduct of free and fair elections is primarily the responsibility of member states. nevertheless, a european approach is necessary given the cross-border dimension of efforts to manipulate democracy and the importance of joining efforts to address the threats. just as with the rule of law, what affects one member state can affect all and impact the union itself. the threats at stake are complex and the targets are constantly evolving. for instance, external actors are more often using domestic proxies. we also see new technological developments allowing for new forms and strategies of interference. in the context of the 2019 elections, the commission has taken a number of concrete steps to address the challenges, including with the election package of measures to secure free and fair elections in europe, with the code of practice on disinformation, which has been signed by facebook, twitter, google and microsoft, and with the action plan on disinformation, with which we have also made some progress. we will build on this work in the upcoming term. we have worked to put a holistic and permanent framework in place, with an aim to strengthen the resilience of our democracies and adapt to the evolving threats and coordinated and intentional manipulation. to address the threats at stake, a coordinated and comprehensive approach is necessary, involving all actors across government, including regulatory and enforcement authorities, political parties, journalists, fact-checkers, researchers, educators and society and civil society at large, as well as industry and the online platforms. some of them i mentioned, but of course we need to invite more to work with us. and of course we will need citizens to work on strengthening their own resilience against these new threats. i sometimes say that we have to work on increasing the demand for truth, and this will be a very big task ahead of us. we need to get better when it comes to detecting, analysing and exposing disinformation and other manipulations of european democratic processes, whatever the tactics and actors employed. this needs to go hand in hand with wider efforts on monitoring cybersecurity and resilience against hybrid threats. in terms of cooperation, we can be pleased with the european cooperation network on elections, which meets today for the fifth time to discuss its future work on safeguarding elections. this is a new club and a very important piece of our toolkit. we also need to further enhance cooperation between eu institutions and eu member states via this network and the rapid alert system, which will help us build a genuine community of practitioners. it will also allow us to build meaningful cooperation with international partners, such as the g7 or nato, because we are facing a real global problem. we can improve the effectiveness of communication through a coordinated response to disinformation incidents, as well as raising public awareness more generally. to this end, it is important to pursue our efforts aimed at facilitating the establishment of an independent community of fact-checkers and academic researchers to detect and expose disinformation campaigns across social networks. following its initial 12-month period of implementation, the code of practice on disinformation is now in the process of being evaluated. should the results under the code prove unsatisfactory, the commission may propose further measures, including of a regulatory nature. we also need to invest in strengthening media literacy, which is key to resilient and democratic societies. citizens must be empowered to have the adequate tools for a well-informed participation in democratic processes. president-elect von der leyen has proposed a new digital services act, which will upgrade our liability and safety rules for digital platforms, services and products. she has also pledged to put forward a coordinated european approach on artificial intelligence. these efforts will be vital if we are to ensure a prosperous, safe and democratic digital future for europe. building on the political guidelines of president-elect von der leyen, i will in the new commission lead on the work towards a european democracy action plan addressing the threat of interference in our european elections, whilst being mindful of the need to protect the freedom of expression. i will look into possible legislative proposals to ensure clearer rules on the financing of european political parties and greater transparency on paid political advertising. in our actions we must never lose the balance. our goal is to protect our european democracy. so it is clear that the respect for freedom of speech and our fundamental rights and values must be our cornerstones.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first i would like to congratulate commissioner jourová for her nomination and to wish her well. commissioner, we know from experience that you are truly and deeply committed to the tasks that are involved in your portfolio. we know that your challenge is a difficult one, but i think there is also some enthusiasm, so i wish you all the best. you know that you will have the cooperation of our group and, i believe, of the house. the house has supported the whole commission in a very strong and clear way, so i think we will have a very good relationship. i will now turn to my national language. senhora presidente, a tentativa de ingerência, seja por potências estrangeiras, seja por vezes com alguma cumplicidade de forças internas, é, sem dúvida, um problema grave. a desinformação não é um problema novo na história, mas hoje, mercê dos elementos tecnológicos, tem uma repercussão muito mais forte em toda a sociedade. nós sabemos que, por exemplo recentemente, os serviços de informação checos chamaram a atenção para a interferência russa e chinesa no processo político e institucional. sabemos que, no caso do brexit, como aqui já foi dito, houve interferência. sabemos que no caso da catalunha uma parte importante dos ips está sedeada na grande moscovo. e portanto nós sabemos que há interferências estrangeiras, que aproveitam a dinâmica política interna, que é real e em que há tensões, para a explorarem, ampliarem e criarem instabilidade, e criarem também desinformação, no contexto das nossas sociedades. e portanto aqui eu considero que é fundamental, que é mesmo decisivo, que nós tenhamos, em primeiro lugar, uma grande preocupação com a educação dos cidadãos. os cidadãos, e os jovens em particular, têm de estar habilitados a discernir, a diferenciar o que é verdadeiro do que é falso, têm que ter capacidade crítica. há aqui operadores sociais muito importantes: os políticos, com certeza, os líderes religiosos, os cientistas na academia e os jornalistas, em particular, são quatro grupos que nós devemos ter como grupos-alvo para, justamente, fazer formação e transmitir, digamos, isso à sociedade. por outro lado, eu acho que nós também poderíamos usar o serviço de ação externa, porque ele deve ser eficaz junto das capitais onde nós suspeitamos que há estas interferências, para mostrar o desagrado da união europeia. e já agora devo dizer: há também algumas interferências ligadas a problemas, a ameaças à democracia interna, e eu aqui não posso deixar hoje de lembrar o caso de malta, onde realmente o assassinato da jornalista daphne galizia foi algo de aterrador e que mostra que a livre informação está em perigo até com a ameaça física, e não apenas com a ameaça digital.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on behalf of the s&d group. free and fair elections are at the very heart of democracy, of our european project and our union, but free and fair elections are not a given and should not be taken for granted. election interference challenges the foundations of our democratic systems and risks are growing day after day and they are there to stay unless we take action. this is a major issue in many of our member states and current policies are insufficient to counter this hybrid assault on our democracies. millions of europeans are being exposed to massive disinformation campaigns due to foreign interference. cyberattacks have risen to an unprecedented level, with dangerous access to strategic infrastructure and data. electoral rules on the financing of political parties by third countries are being breached. however, eu governments are still failing to act. some governments are even hiding the truth from the public. this is the case of the uk government of boris johnson, for instance. it recently refused to release the intelligence and security committee report on the russian threat to uk democracy. but this is far from being an isolated case. this comes after a plan by russian actors to fund the lega of matteo salvini, the austrian fpo ibiza scandal, the case of the french front national, the leave. eu campaign in the uk and suspicious online activities during the last european elections in germany. last month, at the initiative of the s&d group, the european parliament adopted a resolution in which we called for bold action here in parliament. we understood the importance of this issue and we called for the establishment of a special parliamentary committee on election interference to address the challenges effectively and holistically. but the proposal did not pass, due to the opposition of 52 renew colleagues. i am puzzled why our colleagues from renew, and more specifically the uk lib dems, insisted on having this topic on the agenda yet voted against the special committee addressing this issue here in the european parliament. however, sometimes we find that it takes time to come to challenges. so let’s unite, let’s work together and let’s ensure that in the european parliament too, we take this issue very seriously.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam vice-president, i would of course like to congratulate you on behalf of the renew group on your re-election this morning. i would like to add, on a personal note, that i am very pleased to be meeting you again on the subjects which already brought us together in the previous parliamentary term, namely democracy and the rule of law. our story is about finding a balance that's a little complicated. as mrs von der leyen said this morning, the fragility of our democracies and of the european union is due to this historic search for a balance between defending freedom, defending freedoms, the right to think and the right to express oneself and, at the same time, respecting the rule of law which is necessary for all of us so that we can live together in society. in the course of our history, we invented the printing press, through which we have developed knowledge and ideas and advanced humanism. we have invented and defended freedom of the press and freedom of thought, but we have managed to balance - as you know, madam vice-president, especially since you come from a country which has not always known freedom of expression and freedom of thought - this freedom of thought with the principle of the responsibility of those who broadcast and, at the same time, with rules imposed on the press and broadcasting. we cannot broadcast everything in our democracies. when i hear, at a time when the internet is replacing the printing press, the press, etc. and is going much faster, that it must be given complete freedom, that it must not be regulated, that it must be allowed to manage itself, i think, madam vice-president, that we are undermining the very essence of the value of european democracy, that of the balance between freedom and rule. i will end with this: let us not make the internet a place of lawlessness, let us not make social networks a place of freedom without control.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. foreign influence in elections is something that worries many people. most people probably think of the us election and countries like china, iran and russia as election influencers. in sweden, we are probably thinking particularly of china, which recently tried to influence a minister and the swedish government not to award a prize to a person who displeased the chinese regime. of course, it raises questions about how much election influence china is trying to bring to the surface when they're so brazen in the public sphere. it is not only anti-democratic foreign powers that try to influence elections in democratic countries. the eu also uses propaganda to influence elections by painting a picture of who is evil and who is good. they also often paint a purely apocalyptic picture of the threats to the eu and the community and cooperation that exists. this is, of course, pure and simple propaganda to intimidate in order to influence national elections. and does it make a difference who's trying to influence an election? no, it's not that. trying to influence an election in a democratic country and not respecting the election results is never acceptable. we must never allow that and must always stand up to the influence of both the eu and foreign powers such as china and russia.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, we cannot talk about foreign interference in elections without calling out the democratic unionist party (dup), which has never been held to account for taking half a million pounds of dark money during the brexit campaign – dark, shadowy money that was given to the dup through an alleged international criminal businessperson. they did not spend it in the north of ireland; instead, the dup spent it in a country where they do not field candidates – england – in order to circumvent english electoral law. there was no investigation into where it came from. after the brexit referendum, legislation was put in place that protected the dup from having to disclose the source. this is the same dup which is currently inciting loyalist mobs to campaign for dup brexiteers. loyalists have put up intimidatory posters against sinn féin candidate and mayor of belfast, john finucane, whose father, pat, was murdered by loyalists and british state agents. if this was happening anywhere else, the eu would be condemning it. however, the partition of ireland with an in—built unionist majority was designed to facilitate gerrymandering and obstruct the democratic will of the people – by whatever means. this underpinned the foundation of a discriminatory orange state with oppressive laws that were the envy of apartheid south africa. thankfully, the orange state and the inbuilt undemocratic unionist majority are gone, and we are on a pathway towards an inclusive, democratic united ireland.
mr. president, this is not the first time we've talked about fake news and foreign interference. we were standing here a year ago. two months ago, we had this debate. we adopted a resolution last month and we are here again today. we're back here because it's still important and because it seems like there's no real action. the european elections are over. we've seen several studies that show that almost half of the 250 million europeans were exposed to fake news from russian trolls in the run-up to those elections. we've seen networks operating in different countries to spread disinformation. users and pages have been removed from facebook and other social networks, but only after they have been viewed hundreds of millions of times. fact-checkers from our own east stratcom task force recorded over 1,000 cases of russian interference, more than doubling from the previous year: the commission has also confirmed that it is a clear confirmation of the challenge facing us all. the task force has been expanded, but is that enough? i asked the eu's foreign service that question and the answer was very clear: the budget does not allow us to tackle the problem adequately. so we have to do more. less talk, more action. i would like to call on the commission to really tackle this, certainly in the coming period. this must be done in two specific areas. resources, more resources to really address the problem. more money for analysis and research, more money for anti-disinformation campaigns, more investment in technology, more commitment to our own resilience and our awareness of all of us. second, the tech giants: end the "freedom, happiness" approach to platforms like facebook. it is high time they finally took responsibility. there are no voluntary codes of conduct, but binding measures to enforce transparency and cooperation.
madam president, mr lenaers just said that we have just had a resolution, we’ve just had a debate and now, of course, we’re back debating the same thing, but there is a reason for this and the reason is that something is happening. this is not an exaggerated issue; this is an issue on which the commission – commissioner jourová and commissioner king – have been working now for months. this is an issue on which we have been working. we wanted a special committee for a reason and the reason is not that some donald trump says to boris johnson, i like you, i want your nhs, i’d like to buy it. that is not the interference we’re talking about. i don’t like it, but it is not what we’re talking about. it is talking about a growing body of evidence that there is illegal and covert interference, what john f kennedy would not have liked. because at least one voter is voting differently because they have been targeted. cambridge analytica, the theft of private information for covert and illegal use against a constitution and against a body of jurisprudence and law. so let’s just be clear what we are talking about. it is illegal and it is covert. today it will harm us; maybe tomorrow it will harm you. so, this is what we are talking about and i welcome what my uk colleagues have done in initiating this debate because what they are doing is uncovering the latest element of this in my own country, which is where our conservative government is covering up the truth from the public by refusing to release the intelligence and security committee (isc) report on the russian threat to uk politics. one of our big member states of the european union. the report has been approved by the uk intelligence agencies, there is no impediment to publication, and yet, they’re not publishing. how much more evidence do we need to understand that this evidence is real? well, the commission, of course, talked about continued and sustained misinformation during the last may elections, similar to those carried out in the us and france. the report, of course, talks about limited action and i encourage the commissioner, of course, in her new role, with the new college, to do as much as possible. because what we’re talking about is online and offline safeguards, the banning of profiling for electoral purposes, the content shared by bots, the removal of fake accounts. neither the private sector nor indeed our governments are doing enough yet. there can be nothing more important than free and fair elections. this is against the law, it’s covert, it is illegal and we must do something about it to safeguard our democracies.
i would like to congratulate you on your election. you've got a lot of work to do. ladies and gentlemen, once again we see a very clear double standard in this chamber. most of you who spoke were against outside interference and funding of political parties. but only when it comes to parties that you don't like -- like the conservative party in the uk, for example. but when it comes to the bottomless pockets of the billionaire, the scandalous billionaire and financial speculator soros, who funds very solid propaganda in central and eastern europe, you are not against it. and that's a double standard. you have to choose. either you're against foreign interference, or you can't do a ministry of truth. i've heard a few of my colleagues here, titans of political thought, say they're going to shut down the internet, censor it. good luck with that. george orwell wrote about you in "the ministry of truth". when it comes to foreign interference, there should be a uniform standard. we must put everyone under the common denominator and not act so hypocritically and selectively.
madam president, the defence of democracy requires a pluralistic, democratic and independent media sector. it calls for the defence of the independence of the media from economic power, preventing the monopolistic concentration of media companies and advocating the strengthening of the public service, guaranteeing the rights of journalists and other information professionals and their respect for ethical and deontological principles. the increasing concentration in the european union, which serves the interests of the dominant political and economic groups, is moving in the opposite direction, limiting the freedom and independence of the press, facilitating the dissemination of lies or the silencing of communist and progressive forces, their proposals and actions, while promoting imperialism, obscurantism, populism and their anti-democratic aims, opening the door to the far right. the so-called external threats that the european union and this parliament insist on pointing out are only a pretext to mask this reality and to continue on the dangerous path of single and reactionary thinking.
mr president, madam high representative, i welcome you to your last speech at a sitting of the european parliament and i take up the strong words you used in a text recently published to put the dilemma we face today in a simple and straightforward way. the two-state solution is the only way to guarantee the palestinians' right to freedom, self-determination and human development on the one hand and the israelis' right to security and peace on the other. to take positions which conflict with this solution, as the american administration has done, by legitimising the israeli settlements and recognising jerusalem as israel's capital, is to go against international law, to make it impossible to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict and, with it, any possibility of lasting peace in the middle east. the european union is required to do more than talk, it is required to act, in pursuit of the commitments necessary to the implementation of the oslo accords and the 2016 un security council resolution.
mr president, we are witnessing a period marked by the outbreak of social movements, of political opposition in various parts of the world, so complex in nature and so unpredictable in their outcome that they do not allow for generalizations or simplisms in their analysis. however, we can identify levels of poverty, worsening humanitarian conditions, lack of freedom and expectations, especially for young people, corruption and low trust in political power as elements that have led to strong social tensions. this is the case with the popular protests in iraq, iran and lebanon, countries marked by strong internal convulsions and crises, often fuelled by external power games. but understanding this cannot, however, lessen our level of apprehension at the violence that, to varying degrees, is being exercised against the protesters. in lebanon, repressive violence against demonstrators by identified groups can never be tolerated. in iran, the repression of peaceful protests over fuel price increases, the internet shutdown, arbitrary detentions, torture, the deaths of more than 100 people and radical calls for the death penalty are unacceptable and lead us to call for an end to the use of violence and for the search for inclusive dialogue as the only way to resolve the economic and social crisis. finally, in iraq, the latest events must merit a response from the european union and its member states, which must include the immediate suspension of the supply of technology that could be used for human rights violations.
madam president, this debate is timely and we are discussing with the commission and the council this post-cotonou partnership agreement and the future of the path we started together with our african, caribbean and pacific partners in lomé in 1975. it is never too late to recall that this agreement has three fundamental objectives: to reduce poverty and eventually eradicate it, to promote sustainable development and to contribute to the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy. if these are your first and post-cotonou objectives, you must reassume these commitments. the commission's negotiating mandate says exactly that: the agreement will build on and reinforce the fundamental values and principles of this agreement which now expires next year. this is the first idea i would like to leave behind in a current situation where concrete measures are needed to promote and enforce human rights or to defend democracy, economic growth and investment, to combat climate change, to promote peace and security, and to act in terms of mobility and migration. the primary objective of eradicating poverty in line with the sustainable development goals should remain our highest purpose. and i would like to make three comments on the future of the agreement, because a lot has already been said in this debate. firstly, the maintenance of the parliamentary dimension in the future acp-eu partnership. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow makes this point very clearly, reiterating the importance of strengthening this parliamentary dimension, that is, the future institutional framework should include an acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, and as our co-presidents of the joint parliamentary assembly have done, and in the same way as my colleague carlos zorrinho in kigali in his joint statement, and of course the president of the committee on development on this subject, i too believe that this demand should not be negotiable in the context of the approval of the future agreement by the european parliament. secondly, to defend multilateralism as the only truly effective way to lasting peace, economic prosperity and sustainable development. we will only be able to implement the ambitious sustainable development goals on a truly effective scale if we do so through the various existing world forums, and with this partnership of ours this can act as a lever for common positions. we must also, in these forums, spread our ideals and principles to the populations, as that saying very well says: alone we may go faster, but together we'll surely go farther. thirdly and lastly, i would like to stress something that is rarely mentioned, namely the importance of parliamentary diplomacy in encouraging institutional rapprochement in multilateral terms, whether at the level of parliaments, governments, regional or local authorities and, of course, public administrations, and also, finally, i would add greater involvement of civil society in the political process to encourage the holding of various types of events. parliamentary diplomacy also contributes, and i conclude, madam president, to the dissemination of the fundamental values we defend, namely human rights.
madam president, this resolution is a deplorable exercise in enumerating false facts and grotesque considerations which are intended to create the context for justifying the unspeakable proposals to interfere in cuba's internal affairs and to interfere in the decisions of its people, in clear violation of international law and the charter of the united nations, with the aim of overthrowing the cuban revolution. it is another step towards calling into question the progress made in the normalisation of relations with the signature of the agreement on dialogue and cooperation between cuba and the european union and its ratification by the member states, even suggesting the possibility of suspending the agreement. the resolution grossly omits the criminal blockade that has been imposed on cuba for 60 years, its aggravation, its serious damage and consequences, while at the same time silencing the economic, social and cultural advances and rights that have been achieved by the cuban revolution, as well as the recognized policy of international solidarity, particularly in the field of health, despite the blockade.
madam president, vice-president frans timmermans, the european green deal must have a huge ambition: to become the pact for the strategy of fair and inclusive sustainable growth for europe in the next decade. but this ambition can only be credible if the appropriate financial resources are mobilised. financial institutions such as the eib and the ecb are crucial. we are at a key moment in the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework. the proposal on the table, which will be discussed tomorrow at the european council, is unacceptable and, moreover, completely out of line with the political discourse of the leaders. if we are really committed to combating climate change, the union budget must grow. the transition is for everyone and by everyone. all member states without exception should support this transition and all should be supported.
madam president, this renewed ambition which has been put forward today needs realism, as the honourable member has said, and funding. the ecological pact must increasingly be a development pact. we all know that new objectives require new means and more technological, financial or even methodological resources. the plan for the countryside at the table is important, but we will only have something at the table if there is agriculture and farmers, and these are men and women who occupy the land, who combat rural neglect, and, as mrs president said, more traditional products at the table will represent a great challenge for the occupation of these territorial spaces that are so often abandoned in our europe. european farmers have this dual responsibility of ensuring food security and helping to combat climate change. they're a big part of the solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digitalisation of our societies and economies creates opportunities for everyone, citizens and businesses, new products and better services, solutions to the second, but also opens the door to more sophisticated forms of evading the law and taxation. we must anticipate the problems of the future and decide in the present with the speed and intelligence that this age of innovation demands. vat is an important source of tax revenue for all member states and for the union, which has a source of revenue of its own. harmonizing rules and approximating tax policies in the vat area is to protect the integrity of the internal market and the free movement of goods and services based on fair tax rules. combating tax fraud and evasion is a priority to strengthen citizens' trust in democratic institutions and public administrations across europe. vat is based on communication by operators in a given value chain and is therefore based on trust. while it is true that the overwhelming majority of these agents are reliable and fulfil their obligations, vat fraud unfortunately remains a problem. the difference between the estimated vat and the vat actually collected in 2017 was eur 137,5 billion. and this means a loss of 267 euros for every european citizen. vat fraud in e-commerce in the union amounts to eur 5 billion annually, the equivalent of the product of all e-commerce in the portuguese market in one year. the reports we are debating today are the expression of the will of this parliament to go further in the fight against this fraud which harms us all. at the same time, we have created a central european system for the collection and exchange of payment data and strengthened the obligations of payment services in collecting, retaining and reporting such data. our amendments are intended to signal the will to be more ambitious and to confirm parliament's commitment to a more effective fight against vat fraud. let me therefore highlight a few key aspects: the increase in the retention period ensures that the authorities have more time to identify possible fraud situations. the setting of a minimum value, which activates the obligation to report by the payment service in a single transaction, reduces the space to circumvent the system we are approving. with express reference to the obligations towards the european data protection supervisor, we would point out that no action by public authorities or payment services infringes the fundamental right of europeans to privacy and the protection of their personal data. we support the use of new technologies in payment systems, call for modernisation and stress the need to simplify procedures for businesses and citizens. ladies and gentlemen, what we're talking about here today is really about fairness, about making sure that everyone, regardless of country or their digital skills, pays their fair share. financial technology is changing, every day, the way we consume, trade and pay for the services we hire. and we need to adapt our legislation to the new realities of the digital world. vat fraud knows no borders and can only be tackled by increased cooperation between national authorities and european institutions. it is up to us to ensure greater equity, to ensure fairer and more efficient taxation, to level the playing field in a struggle, which has been uneven up to now, between those who seek to evade their obligations and those who defend tax justice.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these reports reflect a deliberate ambition, based on the certainty that digitalisation is changing our lives every day. legislation today therefore means more than finding general and abstract solutions: it also means finding concrete solutions to problems which, in detail, can become significant losses, losses to the public purse of the member states, to the general budget of the union and, indeed, to the family budget of europeans. vat fraud in e-commerce in the european union is increasing because e-commerce in the union is increasing. often, protecting the internal market requires that we know how to wait and let the market work. that's not the case. we are legislating in this way because we believe in a fair market in which taxation and tax obligations can be an instrument of justice and protection for businesses and citizens. it is true that these reports are about vat in electronic commerce, but they can be a signal from this sector for the great vat reform we want for europe. a reform for a taxation more adapted to the challenges of the digital economy, more ambitious in building a european budget focused on cohesion, convergence and competitiveness. taxes are inevitable, as we know. our challenge is to make them a tool for our economies, growth and jobs.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, during the mario draghi years extraordinary monetary policy instruments were mobilised. however, growth in these years has been mediocre and these instruments have risks and consequences that should not be ignored. in the hearings with the members who will now be appointed, we wanted to know if they agree with the importance of having a policy mix in the european union, namely with much more significant budgetary instruments than those that currently exist, we wanted to know what they think about the ecb looking more at the issue of employment and inequalities, even if that means more latitude in the targets for inflation, and we wanted to know what ideas they have for the ecb to be able to have a role in responding to climate change or at least not mess up. the answers we have received from fabio panetta have been, from our point of view, satisfactory, which is why we will support his candidacy. mrs schnabel's answers were not as satisfactory, but we also do not want to make it impossible precisely because of concerns about gender balance. we join all the groups who have spoken about the importance of member states taking their responsibilities in this objective which is an objective that should unite us all to have gender balance in future appointments.
madam president, a new political cycle is now well under way. a bold agenda for the future of europe was set and it is now time to deliver. we expect the european central bank – its executive board, from its president to those who are now appointed – to play their role in the european priorities. we have to move forward, being able to agree on smaller things, but also on the hard reforms. we cannot keep betting on the prolongation of this economic cycle without doing anything else. we cannot rely solely on monetary policy, which is of the utmost importance but is not sufficient. we need a strong investment plan and we have to build a budget for the stabilisation that we know we’ll need in the difficult moments that eventually will come sometime. we need to act on the climate and on the economy, but also on social cohesion. the ecb has an important role and we have to analyse its mandate, taking into account modern european priorities. but we will also hold these executive board members accountable for its president’s pledge to keep the previous stance of monetary policy throughout this next term because this is where it will make a difference: if we have from the european central bank and from its executive board the trust that monetary policy will keep its adaptive stance. and then we have to do the rest on the rest of the economic policy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, we see this text as an effort to combat the race to the bottom in the taxation of large multinational companies. this race to the bottom has resulted in a huge loss of tax revenue which is then borne in part by the other taxpayers, particularly those who live by their work, but also by the degradation of public services and public investment policies in the member states. but it is also a violation of the principle of a fair relationship between member states, because some member states design strategies to expropriate other member states of the tax revenue that is due to them. and finally, it is here and now, in an institution where there is so much discussion of undistorted competition, the level playing field, a violation of the principle of undistorted competition, not only between companies from different tax jurisdictions, but also between companies that have the ability to evade taxes using these instruments and companies that do not have that ability. it is a disappointment on our part that it has not been made clear in this text that when we discuss minimum taxation at international level, we must obviously talk about effective taxation, because otherwise we will simply be continuing the game of tax evasion with new rules. and one thing, at least, we can say that it has become clear, that the proponents of this resolution argue that the european union must take the initiative at this level and therefore will not resort to the usual excuses that yes, it is a fair fight, but it will only be possible when all the offshore countries in the world are in agreement.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, with the impasse in the council, the path being taken in the oecd is an opportunity to respond globally to the challenges of taxation, particularly in the digital area. as regards the distribution of taxation rights, what is agreed will change the taxation principles in the global economy. the debate is moving in the right direction, albeit slowly. as regards the overall minimum taxation, the proposal for a minimum tax rate at the level of each jurisdiction, in particular for digital, is welcomed. in the meantime, the council is expected to move forward with proposals on company taxable income. but the commission and the member states must ensure that the negotiations on these two pillars are conducted jointly. finally, we hope that an agreement will be reached during the next year, at least during the german presidency of the council. this agreement will be key to ensuring greater tax equity and social justice in europe and the world.
mr president, representatives of the steel industry have warned the european commission several times this year that their sector is in crisis. the european commission replied that it had taken all measures to reverse this development. but the reality is different. companies are cutting production, laying off employees, and considering whether to continue their activities at all. arcelor mittal decided to suspend production in krakow, which led to the loss of 1,300 jobs. tata steel announced that it would cut 3,000 jobs in europe and others are closing their furnaces, including u.s. steel košice, where 2,500 people will lose their jobs. and that's not all. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. although the european union pretends to take steps to be greener, it is liquidating its modern and environmentally friendly operations by increasing the quotas for dirty steel from third countries. the european commission says that it has responded well to the introduction of restrictive measures, but this is not true. and i ask you: what will you, as the new commission, do to help the steel industry in europe?
mr president, one issue that has been raised with great concern by many meps in the european parliament in the last weeks is the horrific human rights situation in iran, following the nationwide protests which erupted on 15 november and spread to almost 200 cities. our concern is how the killings and mass arrests have been minimised by the regime in iran, while there have been at least 1 500 people killed and 12 000 arrested. the main iranian opposition, the national council of resistance of iran (ncri), has gathered the names of over 500 people killed, among them dozens of women, including four mothers and many minors such as nikta esfandani – look at this picture. she was 14. i am calling on the european union and the united nations to despatch a fact-finding mission to iran as soon as possible.
mr president, on 10 december last the human rights activist isabel lourenço was expelled from the occupied territories of western sahara by the moroccan authorities. isabel, a portuguese and european citizen, has complied with all the requirements of moroccan law for entry into the country. he had a valid passport, travel authorization, information about the hotel where he would be staying, and a return plane ticket to las palmas. the purpose of his visit was clear: to learn about the situation of the political prisoners in gdeim izik. however, at the airport in el aaiún, isabel lourenço was classified as persona non grata for attempting to attack the sovereignty of morocco. the activist was thus forced to have her computer and mobile phones disconfigured, was prevented from making any calls and was sent, against her will, to agadir via a taxi. i would like to conclude by saying that the continuing repression by the kingdom of morocco of activists and the sarawi people, especially in western sahara, must end and that the european commission must take a firm stand in defence of human rights in that country.
the change in the approach to the problems of disabled citizens requires us to move from a model of institutionalization to a model of independent living, from a model of segregation to a model of rights, but it also requires monitoring of all the policies that are implemented from within the european union. we must be sure that funding for independent living policies will not serve to perpetuate patterns of institutionalization and segregation in the member states, as is still the case in many member states. and we also need to ensure that all european funding for all infrastructure and services is in line with accessibility rules, that is, that it does not add to all the barriers that citizens with disabilities already face in their lives. and two other issues need to be addressed: first, the definition of poverty and the increased risks of poverty faced by citizens with disabilities, which need to be addressed in a comprehensive strategy to combat poverty and finally overcome the discrimination that continues to exist in policies and ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, the european disability strategy 2010-2020 has proved to be an instrument to help improve the lives of millions of europeans with a wide range of disabilities. we have to acknowledge these advances, but we also have to acknowledge that there are still many problems to overcome, old problems, such as access to the labour market, and new problems, such as transition to adulthood, the aspiration to independent living and ageing. these are problems that require an effective, humanized and innovative response. that is why i think the commission's commitment to the definition of a new european strategy is so important and i would like to hear a greater commitment from the commissioner in this area. we must take a step forward towards a society which fully integrates these citizens in a context of full equality and freedom. and we need to do that with the involvement of the people and the organizations that represent them. people with disabilities must have a central voice in this process.
mr president, concrete measures are needed to defend the rights of disabled people and to give them the right to live independently. for this to happen, mobility, accessibility, information and inclusion need to move beyond a list of good intentions to become a reality. we believe that access to work with rights is fundamental to overcoming inequalities and to the integration of people with disabilities. states should promote measures to encourage their integration into the labour market, in particular through public policies on training and employment, by adapting labour legislation and the regulation of working hours to their needs and specificities, paying particular attention to the protection of pregnancy and maternity in the case of women with disabilities. even in a situation of dependency, people must have rights, and these rights also go beyond the rights of carers, where they exist, and the existence of a humanized and accessible public network that provides support to informal carers and people in care. this is what we stand for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i come from a country where we have a lot to do with bees because we grow a lot of fruit, and fruit, of course, needs pollinators, but it also needs protection. we live in this dilemma and have some experience of it. you have to look at this a little bit more closely. it is not just a question of what pesticides are used, but also how they are used. it is simply that during the flowering period pesticides have no place on fruit trees, they simply have to be banned. it's about working closely with the beekeepers, and it's about -- and we haven't talked much about this -- that the biggest problem for bees right now is not pesticides, and it's not biodiversity loss, but it's parasites that are attacking the bees themselves, so varroa, beetles and things like that, and unfortunately we're getting more and more of these parasites, and we need to work in research and development here as well, so that we can develop effective countermeasures.
member of the commission. – mr president, now, it’s abundantly clear that we all agree that pollinators are essential and that we need to protect them, and this is clear from everybody’s comments. the commission has recognised the urgency and promptly answered the calls of the european parliament and of the public to tackle the decline of pollinators, and we adopted the european pollinators initiative, which is an ambitious framework that can address this complex challenge. it does consolidate actions across european union policies and strengthen links between them, and to do this, we consulted broadly experts and stakeholders and introduced new actions where gaps were identified. now, in the light of the european green deal, actions addressing the main threats to pollinators do need to be scaled up and made more effective. to measure the effects of policies and measures, however, we also need a robust monitoring system for pollinators and the threats they face. i listened carefully to a lot of the questions. i agree it’s crucial to look at imports, and the upcoming evaluation of the pesticides legislation will look at the issue of import tolerances and open this discussion. the green deal (i heard this being mentioned) does in fact speak about reducing pesticides. it says we will reduce the risk and use of pesticides significantly, and the farm-to-fork strategy, which, as you all know, will be presented, hopefully, in the spring, will be more specific about specific targets. additionally, the commission has taken decisive action to ban and restrict the use of neonicotinoids. two are no longer approved, one cannot be used outdoors, and the commission will be proposing not to renew the approval of a fourth one. and it is supporting the use of low-risk and non-chemical pesticides. now, concerning – i think there was a question on emergency authorisations – we have increased scrutiny of these, including proposing decisions preventing two countries from granting contested authorisations. furthermore, the commission will continue supporting member states to ensure the sustainable use of pesticides, and the commission will be presenting the findings of the refit evaluation of the pesticides regulation and the second reports on the implementation of the sustainable use directive early in 2020. and finally, i agree that having an ambitious strategy plan on the cap is very important in order to deliver on our own ambitions. now let me be absolutely clear: the commission is determined to coordinate and steer a decisive european union action to stop and reverse pollinator decline. however, the success of this initiative will, critically, depend on the strong engagement of all stakeholders in its implementation. member states will have an indispensable role in the deployment of effective actions and monitoring systems on the ground, and we look forward to the european parliament’s strong endorsement of this initiative and the crucial role of member states in its implementation.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, echoing what you and the commission have said, let me also conclude by recalling the importance of pollinators for biodiversity, for our food systems and for our well-being. i welcome this discussion today on this very important topic. it is clear that the current efforts on pollinators’ protection are not sufficient. we need to have a more holistic and coordinated approach on this issue, and there is broad support in the council to increase the environmental ambition in the cap – the common agricultural policy – reform, of course taking into account the situation of our farmers. moreover, the relevant eu measures have to be stronger and properly implemented. i am, therefore, looking forward to the new commission strategy, which will, hopefully, address the weaknesses of the current eu policies and will be accompanied by appropriate monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to improve their effectiveness. thank you very much for this important discussion.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 132 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 december 2019. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the survival of europe's bee population is under increasing threat from year to year, as is the number of wild pollinating species threatened with extinction. the main causes of this worrying trend based on the consistent conclusions of related scientific research are to be found in human activities. the eu pollinator initiative was an important milestone in the process of identifying the problem. however, the measures have so far proved insufficient to protect pollinating species. more ambitious action is therefore needed for three reasons. on the one hand, we have a moral responsibility to pass on to future generations the environment we inherited from our ancestors, at least in the same quality. on the other hand, 75% of european food production depends on pollination by bees, so strengthening the european beekeeping sector is of paramount importance. finally, without further action, the quality products of european beekeepers will not be able to compete with cheap imports, which could further reduce the self-sufficiency of the european union. the european parliament's resolution as a whole is trying to address these factors, and i support it.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on animal welfare conditions during transport to third countries (2019/2944 ((rsp)). i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you can apply for the 'catch the eye' procedure and the blue card by using both the standard registration and the electronic system directly from your post. the instructions are available at the entrance to the chamber.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, we have all been struck by the news a few weeks ago about the capsizing of a vessel which led to the drowning of more than 14 000 sheep. i’m sure that we all agree that everything must be done to avoid a similar tragic accident happening again. animal welfare remains a serious concern for european citizens; 82% of respondents to a eurobarometer survey on this issue said that improvements are badly needed in farm-animal welfare, and most of them considered that the eu should do more to promote greater awareness of animal welfare, including at international level. the council regularly discusses matters related to animal welfare. over the last six months, the finnish presidency has worked very actively on the preparation of council conclusions on animal welfare. and ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to confirm that the conclusions were adopted by the council yesterday. in these conclusions, the council emphasises the importance of good animal welfare as an integral part of sustainable animal production, and notes the improvements already achieved in the eu. at the same time, the council acknowledges the need to continue improving the welfare of animals, including during transport over long distances. on the issue of transport, as a first step, the council encourages the commission and the member states to continue their work on the effective enforcement of the existing legislation, in particular through improved exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states, and more active cooperation between different competent authorities in member states and third countries. as a further step, the council invites the commission to review and update the existing transport legislation to take into account current practical problems and experience of member states in its enforcement, as well as more recent scientific knowledge and technical developments. dear friends, we are all aware that various sensitive issues such as the transport time or the sustainability of trade in live animals may need to be discussed in this context. these are very important questions which certainly deserve thorough consideration in different fora with the contribution of all stakeholders involved. finally, regarding international aspects, the council reaffirms the importance of promoting the welfare of animals globally, given the competition that eu farmers are facing in global trade. discussions with our trade partners, and in particular negotiations on free-trade agreements with third countries, offer indeed an excellent opportunity for this. naturally, this goes hand in hand with our continued efforts at multilateral level to develop standards, guidelines and other activities aimed at achieving good animal welfare practices worldwide, including during long-distance transport, for instance through the world organisation for animal health. thank you very much, mr president, for your attention and for this very timely debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, like you, i was terribly shocked by the news on 24 november that almost 15 000 sheep had drowned when the ship transporting them capsized in the black sea port of midia. it is, after all, our responsibility to ensure that animals are safe and protected during transport. animal welfare must remain an overriding consideration in our work. the information provided by the romanian veterinary authorities who approved the vessel for livestock transport and supervised the dispatch of the animals, was that available space requirements set out in the eu law were fully respected; but, of course, this is of little comfort as we reflect on the losses sustained on that day. the transporters clearly failed in their primary responsibility to protect the animals in their charge throughout the journey. this is a requirement specifically set out in eu legislation and which must be respected. they failed to take adequate precautions to prevent this loss and to protect the animals from the pain and the distress that they suffered before they perished. this is about the ethical values of our union. the commission is working with member states to improve the conditions of animals during transport. in recent years, we have taken action to improve the situation, particularly at the border between bulgaria and turkey, a well-known hotspot for animal welfare issues. since 2017, we have dedicated staff and resources to tackle this particular problem. although more can, and must, be done, the results are encouraging. by working closely with veterinary authorities in exporting members states and turkey, and with the cooperation of ngos, we have dramatically reduced the number of consignments that cross the borders during hot periods. last summer there wasn’t a single incident reported at the border linked to the road transport of animals. this does not mean that all issues have been resolved. it is nonetheless a signal that we are at least on the right track. we need to maintain a constant dialogue with member states and stakeholders through the network of animal welfare contact points and the animal welfare platform, and we need to ensure that this dialogue leads to concrete results and actions. actions on sea transport have also been taken. in the last two years we audited official control arrangements for sea transport of livestock in four member states, including romania. for these audits, we saw that the situation is quite worrying. many arrangements seem to fall well below the standards established by eu law. our auditors found particular shortcomings concerning the approval of vessels by the authorities. i am well aware that the supervision and approval of vessels for animal transport are indeed challenging tasks. specific and extensive training is needed to adequately perform them – specialised training that differs from that provided to most veterinarians. the recent incident makes it abundantly clear that even ensuring that facilities are suitable to accommodate animals is no guarantee that the vessel itself is seaworthy, or that its crew is properly trained. there are also currently no arrangements to inform veterinarian authorities of problems detected by inspectors in other eu countries, and this is something that we are actively working on with the european maritime safety agency to allow for better sharing of information regarding livestock vessels. we have also worked with member states to improve their checks on livestock vessels, and this process has brought out some improvement in the inspection systems for these vessels. a further initiative that we have taken is to engage with the countries receiving live animals in order to get information on each consignment. this will provide valuable feedback on the conditions of the animals on arrival, and promote continuous improvement, and of course, as is usual, we have issued recommendations following our audits. we will closely monitor how these are addressed by member states. this is a matter that i will follow closely and i will raise with ministers on every occasion. they all need to take action to prevent incidents like the one that happened in romania from happening again, and i can assure you that i will work with the same focus to improve the conditions of animals transported by sea, as we did to improve the conditions of animals transported by road under the previous commission. i can also assure you that i will look at animal welfare as an important part of the farm to fork strategy that i will be presenting in spring 2020 as part of the european green deal, and this includes a critical look at the existing rules, including animal transport.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the demise of the queen hind and the loss of thousands of animals is beyond regret. but i also expect that we will hear from the romanian authorities what really happened. why did this ship sink? was this ship capable of transporting so many animals? was it overloaded? have any current animal welfare rules been broken? it is no good continuing to call for new rules on animal welfare and the transport of animals, but on the other hand - and i am quite right in saying so, commissioner - we still have situations where the existing law is not sufficiently implemented. i think we have to ask the member states to ensure that the law that exists today, which is very strong in europe, is also implemented. the transport of live animals cannot always be prevented. we have to transport farm animals, for example, and there are animals that go to the final mast and they have to be transported alive. but there are also situations in europe where animals are dragged halfway across europe in search of the even cheaper slaughterhouse, and then the carcasses are transported back. i think we should take a look at this nonsense. i think we should transport the carcass wherever possible and not live animals. we should also do this where special slaughters, in this case, culling, are required by the customers. we must also contact the countries which then buy these animals so that we can supply them not with live animals but with slaughtered carcasses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health and welfare standards in the community are not exceeded. it is clear that the efforts of this parliament to achieve ambitious goals, which we must be proud of and which we must defend, are often frustrated. there is a need, commissioner, for a careful analysis of what action is needed to ensure that our animal welfare standards are fully and uniformly applied in all member states. as far as the committee on agriculture is concerned, we have already decided to go down this road, partly to reduce the distortive effects of the possibility that producers within the union can turn non-application of the rules into competitive advantages. our farmers, in complying with european standards, incur much higher production costs than their competitors outside the union, and thus find themselves victims of unfair competition. we can no longer accept that this should happen within the single market.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i hope that this serious accident in romania will make us aware of the importance of transport conditions for the treatment and welfare of animals. unnecessary stress and hazards are things that can be remedied by legislation and a general change of attitude, if there is a will to do so. there are ways, from education to legislation, and the commitment of the member states is paramount. mismanagement of animals, such as long transport journeys, crowding and heat, can be avoided if animals are in the hands of responsible operators. transport to third countries must be subject to strict surveillance. the starting point must always be that the transport of a live animal is a last resort. of course, sick and injured animals are a special case, and transportation is one of the factors that determines animal welfare. quality is more important than quantity, for even two hours of poor transport can be more severe than twice as much transport under good conditions. therefore, the density of the slaughterhouse network must also be considered, especially in countries with long distances. the welfare of animals must be the main objective of transport, and we must promote it more strongly, and therefore the same standards must be applied from the slaughterhouse, regardless of the country of origin. we have every opportunity in the eu to make responsible transport a strong competitive force on the world food market. in the legislative field, we must pay attention to two things. firstly, the rules already in place for the transport of animals must be fully implemented in each member state. secondly, the updating of the animal transport directive must also be strongly integrated into the farm to fork strategy and the green deal.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, we are gathered here to witness the failure of european policies to protect animal welfare. on 24 november, more than 14 000 sheep drowned in the black sea after a live animal transport ship sank off romania, and this tragedy was expected as a 2018 report issued by the same parliament already denounced the serious shortcomings of european legislation and the systematic non-compliance of several member states with community regulations. moreover, reports from various non-governmental organisations show that there are no animal welfare conditions on board these vessels, nor are there any phytosanitary guarantees, which are often lacking in the countries receiving these animals, mainly in the middle east. in short, the trade in the brutal and inhumane exploitation of these animals can only be considered as an attack on any so-called 'developed' society, and there is therefore no other way but to end the export of live animals outside the european union. and the question i ask the new commission is whether it has the courage to put an end to this barbarity now.
author. madam president, commissioner, digitisation in healthcare is a process in constant flux. we want a more digital europe and it is crucial that digitisation extends to the health sector as well. we need to encourage the use and development of digital media in different approaches to healthcare and to have an integrated vision for improving care and health outcomes in different member states and across the european union. in view of this, the envi committee raises a number of questions, because of their relevance and importance, which should be examined by the commission, namely, what does the commission intend to do to ensure that healthcare professionals have the appropriate digital skills and qualifications? and how does the commission intend to help member states and their regions in disseminating the knowledge and skills needed by citizens and patients using digital resources in health? how does the commission intend to ensure patient confidentiality at each stage of the process and how will it ensure the security and independence of the ehealth and mhealth software? does the commission agree that people 'should be at the heart of the health system' in the course of the changes brought about by the digital revolution? and what steps does the commission intend to take to ensure that citizens have secure access to their data in the decision-making process of healthcare professionals on treatment and care choices? ensuring quality healthcare and access to healthcare for european citizens is of the utmost importance to the european parliament and in particular to the envi committee. health systems are currently facing major challenges such as an ageing population, an increased need for healthcare provision and decreasing available resources. digitalisation is thus an ally in meeting these challenges. in the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of health and care services, 23 commitments were agreed between the different political groups, working closely together. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we now have solutions that don't communicate with each other and reduce the efficiency of the health care system. cybersecurity is an essential pillar. with the potential of digitisation, important issues of security, privacy and data protection are raised. health data is sensitive data and in this sense we consider it essential to place a strong emphasis on the protection, security and privacy of data and on the confidentiality of data, where the informed consent of citizens is guaranteed. in this sense, we consider that anonymization and pseudoanonymization are crucial for the use of health data. we have the opportunity to optimize scientific research, which will allow us to develop evidence-based policy and better health care response. it will also contribute to the early detection of public health threats, resulting in more timely and efficient responses. but none of this is done without investment. we need to invest in better equipment, better networks, better infrastructure, that meet digital needs. it is important to support member states in the process of digital transformation and modernisation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in addition, training should be provided to all the different elements of the health system, from citizens to patients, carers and health professionals, providing information that is easy to understand without leaving anyone behind. finalizo, president-in-office of the council. - (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is very pleased to be able to say that the european parliament has taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. ladies and gentlemen, i count on your support tomorrow by voting in favour of this resolution.
madam president, commissioner, the digitisation of the health sector makes it possible to access, process and analyse data on hundreds of millions of europeans. by carefully monitoring the health indicators of patients, we can take preventive action and prolong the lives of citizens with quality and well-being. personalised medicine and the massive use of data mining will enable better medical diagnoses and procedures and open the door to greater efficiency, benefiting the citizen, the state and industry organisations. but it is important to ensure that the creation of the european health data area is not mortgaged by a lack of public investment by governments or that citizens' privacy is forgotten. the promotion of the public health of europeans must not compromise their fundamental rights. technology, again in this field, is advancing faster than public policy. the adoption of this data-sharing strategy and the corresponding regulation deserve to be among the priorities for 2020 because it will allow for significant gains in the quality of life of each of us.
madam president, i will leave you with a few words on the conclusions of the european council on the multiannual financial framework, which are almost as brief as the time that the european leaders devoted to the multiannual financial framework at that meeting. this european council was another missed opportunity for european leaders to agree on a budget that is fundamental to the european union. it is now up to president charles michel to do what has not been done so far. our meeting yesterday, your initiative with president sassoli and the nego team was a first step. i would remind you that parliament has been ready to negotiate since november last year and that the agreement on the multiannual financial framework requires political agreement on own resources for the financing of the european union. finally, mr president, the council proposal on the table is unacceptable. we want a budget in january 2021, but we will not be willing to compromise the budget with...
in writing. – we have to start delivering on the goal of carbon neutrality. such an ambitious goal needs proper resources to promote and support the transition. we can find those resources, and at the same time avoid importing carbon and avoid endangering responsible european investment. an ambitious budget for the future – that is what we need. we need to put our money where our mouth is. one first and very important moment will be the way the just transition fund will support the transition in all europe, and where the money will come from. we will be very attentive on the proposal. we need to fight for agreements, avoid blockages at the council, for this europe to evolve. banking union is to be completed; more importantly, emu is to be completed and a stabilisation mechanism within the eu budget is absolutely necessary. these are truly strong objectives, but bold action was again promised today by the president of the commission, which as a member of this political family i acknowledge and support. let us unite around the future of this european project. we wish all the best for the endeavours of the new president of the council.
madam president, china continues its policy of systematic oppression and disregard for the most basic civil liberties. this attitude is evident in the numerous cases of people condemned to death and in the deteriorating situation in xinjiang and tibet, where a veritable cultural genocide is taking place. a very revealing fact about this pattern of cultural annihilation is that the governor responsible for the atrocities against the uyghur people is precisely the same one who led the so-called peace process in tibet, an ironic designation for what happened and is still happening there. ideological re-education centres, torture, forced labour, arbitrary detention and other human rights violations can never be tolerated. it is imperative to demand the immediate and unconditional release of ilham tohti and all human rights activists, as well as a ban on the importation of products resulting from forced labour and to consider the use of targeted sanctions to pressure the chinese government to close the camps and to put an end to all human rights violations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 7 000 people are on trial for political reasons and the number of political prisoners in venezuela remains constant at between 300 and 400. since 2012, 12,000 women and men have been arrested for political reasons. the report by the un high commissioner for human rights, ms. bachelet, says that death squads, las fuerzas de acciones especiales, killed 5,287 people in 2018, and 1,569 people until mid-may 2019. these are the brave communists defending freedom and democracy. millions of people are fleeing venezuela, indigenous communities are being hit and slaughtered often in silence, criminal groups have opened a corridor for human trafficking of drugs and gold to the dutch islands. freedom of information is no more, newspapers are disappearing, power cuts prevent access to smartphones and the internet, the regime is trying to stifle freedom on university campuses with the intervention of armed militias, there is a lack of medicines, testing equipment, the spread of diseases such as dengue fever, malaria, hiv, tuberculosis and measles is increasing. it is therefore worth asking, mr high representative, whether the solution for venezuela is to increase humanitarian aid. we don't even know who they're going to. the maduro regime also controls and filters all humanitarian aid. so we need more courage. you're right, i agree, we have to move on. the problem is the return to democracy. but, mr borrell, we need more courage, because until now the community institutions, with the exception of the european parliament, have not had the courage to send mr maduro home, to take firm action against a dictator who continues to massacre his own people and starve them to death. that is why you, the commission and the community institutions must act with courage.
madam president, mr high representative, the situation in venezuela is the biggest migration crisis of our time. if nothing changes, the number of venezuelan migrant refugees is projected to rise from 4.5 million to 6.5 million by december 2020. this crisis affects the region and the neighbouring countries, especially colombia, and even europe. the tiny portuguese island of madeira alone had already received and integrated about 4,000 venezuelan migrants in 2018. but while this is the biggest migration crisis, it is also the least financially supported. only 48% of the financial commitments made by donors were met in 2019. it is therefore important that the european union continues its political and diplomatic work, that financial commitments are respected and that the impact of economic sanctions is assessed, by exploring possible alternatives with creativity, such as the one that the high representative once advocated, a programme like 'oil for food'.
madam president! venezuela is indeed the country with the largest proven oil reserves. and theoretically, it should be a country where people are happy, living in a rich country and fulfilling their dreams and plans. unfortunately, that's not the case. we've known what's been going on in venezuela for years. there's been some debate here, a lot of talk. i believe we are powerless in this matter. more than 5,000 people have left venezuela. nearly 7,000 extrajudicial executions have been carried out in this country. and i think this is the moment to send a very clear signal to the authorities of this country that the european community will simply not tolerate this kind of behaviour and conduct any longer. and here's a big request to mr. borrell to show, to send this signal, that this is one of the most important missions you're going to be doing in the next few years. and to start with, we'll announce whether we'll impose and expand sanctions on the regime's most important officials. and then we will consistently demand the restoration of democracy in this country. without this kind of action, without a strong position of parliament and the european community, we will simply be debating again today and the situation will not change.
madam president, this parliament periodically invests, on the pretext of occasion, in the bolivarian republic of venezuela. once again we repeat: this is a hypocritical exercise in meddling. after having dealt with multiple acts of destabilisation, coup d'état attempts, terrorism, sabotage, ever more intense sanctions, it is hypocritical to decontextualize migration phenomena by concealing and manipulating their objective causes. as in any global context, peace, employment, social protection, health care, the fight against poverty and exclusion, a policy of development and cooperation are essential factors in fixing and attracting populations. of course, when the opposite is promoted the result is the opposite. the interests of the venezuelan people, and in particular of the portuguese community in that country, are incompatible with this destabilization. we reject the exploitation of the legitimate aspirations and suffering of those who, in order to protect themselves from instability, seek other places to live. we demand an immediate end to all sanctions that harm the venezuelan people and aim to isolate venezuela.
madam president, the humanitarian situation in venezuela has long since reached absolutely dramatic proportions. the figures are staggering: 90 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, more than 50 percent of children are out of school. to date, we have more than 4.5 million displaced people and it is expected that if this crisis is not resolved, this number could reach 10 million by 2023. imagine a total equivalent to the portuguese population, almost equivalent to the portuguese population. the international financial programme to support refugees is slow to be implemented and is proving ineffective in the face of the gravity of the situation and the pressing needs of this displaced population. but the truth is, all the support is not enough, it won't be enough. a final solution must be found, a solution which will allow stability to be found for the country. and this is only possible, this is only possible if we force the political actors to put the interest of the country above their individual interests and to accept free and democratic elections.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, on more than one occasion this parliament has expressed its concern about the political situation in nicaragua, highlighting the human rights violations, the unjustified detentions, the absence of a real right to information. we have recently learned that some human rights activists, including belgian-nicaraguan citizen amaya coppens, were arrested while distributing water and medicine to the mothers of imprisoned citizens who were on hunger strike outside the church of st. michael in masaya. we have learned that the nicaraguan government has intensified the persecution of all activists and their families who have protested against its policies, and therefore we reiterate our solidarity with the nicaraguan people and call on the council to take sanctions measures, including asset freezes and visa bans, against those responsible for human rights violations. we encourage the nicaraguan government to resume internal dialogue with the civic alliance to find a peaceful, inclusive solution to this conflict by dismantling paramilitary forces, supporting electoral reform, releasing illegally detained citizens and returning legal personality to humanitarian associations that have been stripped of it. we also ask the high representative for external relations and the european union delegation to monitor this situation closely and we ask the european parliament to send a delegation to nicaragua as soon as possible. all those who are enduring hardship in nicaragua should know that we do not ignore their struggle and will not abandon them to their misfortune.
mr president, in less than a month this parliament will be debating again the dramatic situation in iran, which we know has worsened in recent weeks. the iranian government has not only ignored calls for restraint, but has intensified the brutality of the repression of peaceful protests that have taken place across the country, driven by the extremely serious economic, social and political situation. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia. these are figures and facts that have recently come to light that we cannot ignore. respect for human rights is a fundamental part of our dialogue with other states, but it should also be a fundamental part of the high-level political dialogue between the european union and iran. it is necessary, commissioner, to use all means to persuade the iranian authorities to assume their responsibilities and to comply with the international conventions to which they are committed.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this exchange of views has been very informative and i thank the house for the opportunity to know more about your views on this difficult issue, namely relations with iran. i can assure you that we will not ignore the plight of the thousands of individuals in iran who were involved in, or affected by, the protests. i confirm our commitment to address these issues with iran, publicly and privately, until we’ve got clarity on the full scale of what has occurred and with the expectation that those identified as responsible for the violence will be held accountable. this is in general terms. i will try to answer some of the specific issues that you have raised. it has been asserted that support for the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) has prevented the european union from focusing on other issues. that’s not true. we have engaged in a frank and active dialogue with iran on all issues, maintaining a range of eu autonomous restrictive measures, including on human rights violations. we don’t believe that we would be in a better situation to address those without the jcpoa being in place. i can assure you that this is my strong belief. the jcpoa was first enshrined by a united nations security council resolution and was not an invention by europeans. it was the united nations security council which adopted this agreement and we view it as a crucial issue for regional and european security. no one wants to see a nuclear arms race in the region and no one has been able to come up with a peaceful way of ensuring that iran does not develop a nuclear weapon. having said this, we have on several occasions since june 2019 expressed our strong concern about iran’s reduction in its commitment and we will continue defending the objective and full obligation of this agreement. we will do our best in order to save the jcpoa agreement. other people say that we are too soft on iran. i want to engage with you in a frank and deep debate, and not to say that everybody is happy. no. let’s go to the real issues. are we too soft on iran? i don’t think so. the eu still has a number of sanctions in place: first, nuclear proliferation sanctions under the cpoa; second, human rights sanctions – currently 83 individuals and entities, including a ban on exports to iran of equipment which might be used for internal repression and equipment to monitor telecommunications because, when you disturb the traffic on the internet, you do that with sophisticated telecom instruments – and, third, sanctions under our syria and cp931 terrorist regime. so we are not being especially soft or hard. we do what we have to do and personally i think that you will understand that the jcpoa is something that is important for us, but it doesn’t prevent us from taking a tough position when such things as the ones we have seen in iran happen. it is the case for additional human rights listing in response to the protest. to tell the truth, there are currently no proposals for additional listing on the table. having said that, the process for the annual review of the human rights regime is ongoing. as things stand, we still have human rights sanctions in place, as i told you, which affect 83 individuals and entities in iran. this is a difficult question and we will continue working on it, at the same time using our diplomatic capacity in order to save a deal that is very important for our security and, on the other hand, defending human rights in iran and elsewhere with our sanctions regime, our diplomatic pressure and our permanent claim to respect human rights. this has been a very intensive part-session. it was my first part-session, ‘mon baptême de feu’. i would like to thank all of you for all your contributions and for your support. i know that not everybody sees things in the same way. from the left to the right, there are different approaches and different understandings of what’s happening in this difficult world in which we have to live. today, having covered four difficult issues, thank you all for your contribution and thank you for your support for my job. (applause)
in writing. more than a thousand people have been killed and thousands injured in the protests in iran. more than 12,000 protesters have been arrested and are being held in schools and government offices. any use of excessive force against peaceful protesters is unacceptable and all perpetrators of violence must be held accountable, as must all those arrested for peaceful protest, and they must be released and given a fair trial. it is important that iran complies with its international obligations and allows people to exercise their freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the rights of women and girls and gender equality have been the main cross-cutting priority of the finnish presidency in the field of development cooperation, following a rights-based approach to development including sexual and reproductive health and rights. we are serious about our joint commitment, under the european consensus on development and sustainable development goals, to work with partners to eliminate all forms of sexual and gender-based violence and discrimination, including harmful practices such as, in particular, female genital mutilation. the eu and its member states have long demonstrated strong commitment and leadership at multilateral level in promoting the rights of women and girls and gender equality. the joint eu-un spotlight initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls is an exemplary case in point, an unprecedented global effort to invest in gender equality and women’s empowerment as a precondition and driver for the achievement of the sustainable development goals. in africa, the spotlight initiative is addressing sexual and gender-based violence, child marriage, female genital mutilation and their linkages to sexual and reproductive health access. the recent international conference on population and development (icpd +25) summit, co-hosted by denmark, kenya and the un population fund in nairobi, was extremely successful. extensive financial pledges were made from both public and private sources, as well as political commitments, notably a reaffirmation of efforts to achieve zero female genital mutilation by 2030, in line with our commitment under the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. our achievements and leadership are real, but we must continue pushing until we have lived up to our commitment to achieve the objective of zero harmful practices against women and girls. the un has named 6 february as the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, and around that day, the european commission will take stock, as every year, of eu efforts in this field. we look forward to this report. we would also look with keen interest at the proposal from the commission to renew the eu’s strategic engagement for gender equality that will be expiring at the end of this month. this should, hopefully, include an eu strategy to end female genital mutilation around the world once and for all. before concluding, let me recall that, unfortunately, a significant number of women in the eu live with the lifelong consequences of female genital mutilation or are at risk of it. without dismissing our achievements, therefore, we are aware of the need to do more in europe with respect to the implementation of national laws, specialised support services, or enhancing multidisciplinary actions with affected communities. but i am convinced that, by continuing to work together, we will be able to secure further achievements in europe and globally. thank you very much for this very important discussion.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the european parliament for putting this important topic on the agenda today. i also thank the finnish government for their commitment towards gender equality. this is a subject that is very close to my heart and i am committed to doing everything within my power to eliminate this scourge, this suffering which millions of girls and women are made to endure, even now as we speak. it is essential that we expose and combat this severe violation of human rights, women’s rights and children’s rights. the eu and the united nations programme to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls, with an investment of eur 100 million, is the spotlight initiative, as was already mentioned. with this project, the scope is to leave no girl, no woman behind. the current eu projects in several african countries and the support the eu gave to the unicef programme on abandonment of female genital mutilation (fgm) have reached more than 1.5 million women, who received services for protection and care related to fgm. this programme also galvanised civic movement through the encouragement of more than 3 000 communities, representing 8.5 million individuals, to make a public declaration of abandonment. we know that fgm exists also within the european union. estimates show that at least half a million girls and women who have suffered from genital mutilation live in europe. the european institute for gender equality plays a leading role in providing information and research on female genital mutilation in the eu. in all our member states, fgm is a crime. the efforts to combat it and support its victims are also integrated in eu legislation, notably the victims’ rights directive. the issue is covered in eu asylum legislation. the commission continues to provide funding through the daphne strand of the eu programmes for projects aimed at combating gender-based violence, including fgm. the next call for proposals will open in early 2020 with an indicative budget of eur 12.4 million. honourable members, we need to do more to make sure that the predictions of another estimated 200 million fgm victims by 2030 will not materialise. president von der leyen’s agenda for europe has put the prevention of gender-based violence and the protection of victims at the heart of the union’s equality policy for these five years. i am fully committed to the fight against gender-based violence and i am sure i can count on the support of the european parliament on this matter. the forthcoming robust gender equality strategy, which we will adopt in 2020, will address violence against women directly through various measures, including those addressing fgm. it is important to work on different areas at the same time and to tackle the issue from different angles and across the portfolios. i believe we can continue to work on the five priority areas outlined in the 2013 commission communication on ending female genital mutilation, that is: improving knowledge and data, supporting sustainable social change, protection, prosecution and combating fgm worldwide. women’s rights are indeed at the core of eu foreign policy, and this includes the fight against fgm. we need to work with our international partners across the world to support the implementation of the un sustainable development goals, which cover violence against women. the european parliament has an important role to play through its political networks around the world. we have to acknowledge that fgm is a sensitive matter to tackle. it encompasses a variety of areas, from general human rights to women’s right to bodily integrity, the tackling of gender-based violence and the right to health. this is why it is important that we work together with fgm survivors, fgm practicing communities and experts in an empowering manner, free of misunderstandings and misconceptions. we must avoid stigmatisation, racism and xenophobia at all costs. we should instead promote empowerment, cooperation and dialogue. apart from funding and legislation, we must include all stakeholders at all levels, from our political dialogues with national administrations, to our support for health care professionals, religious and community leaders, and families in eradicating female genital mutilation once and for all. i look forward to your views today, and to working with you towards this mandate on this very important issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. always, always, unfortunately, a woman's body is a battlefield. in every culture, in every religion, on every continent, at every time. it's always the female body that's being accessed. how do you explain that? we remember: it was the female bodies, for example in china, it was the women whose feet were bound so that they were crippled - the so-called lotus feet - it was not the men's feet. we remember: it was women's lacing -- corset lacing -- that deformed the body so that women had lifelong consequences, it wasn't men's bodies. and now in the present? now it's genital mutilation - a mutilation that robs women of sexuality, or partially robs women of sexuality, for life, that creates pain. and some of them are women sewn, they're not sewing men, they're sewing women. we have cultures too, cultures of virginity, for example, a culture of virgins, which is also emerging in europe. it's always, always, always about the same thing: it's about men's control over women's bodies, it's about shaping the body, it's about limitation, and it's about inflicting pain on women.
madam president, according to the world health organisation, it’s estimated that more than 200 million girls and women alive today have undergone female genital mutilation (fgm) in the countries where the practice occurs, and that includes eu member states. furthermore, there are an estimated three million girls at risk of being cut every year. fgm is a form of violence against women and girls. it’s not a defensible cultural practice, but another manifestation of patriarchy. we can and must end fgm, but we need to work with all sectors of society in order to educate families and communities, to empower women and girls to take control of their own bodies, and to encourage men to speak out about this brutal practice. today, i met an inspiring group of girl coders from kenya who were nominated for the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. they’ve created an award winning app called ‘i-cut’, which puts the power into the hands of those at risk by sign posting them to the nearest police station, health centre or ngo that can help them. these girls, and others like them, are leading the way.
madam president, commissioner, female genital mutilation is a plague that continues to threaten millions of women in some african countries and in europe. it is a clear violation of human rights, a denial of gender equality and an attack on children, who have a vaccine. it is made with training, cooperation, control and prevention. and europe must lead the way in using it to eradicate this nightmare from the catalogue of threats against women once and for all. our strength is the many laboratories that at the local and regional level manufacture antibodies for fathers, mothers, daughters, who are at risk of not being able to prevent or suffer this aggression when they travel to their home countries. there are care protocols in some regions, such as the basque country, which base a holistic strategy on the school and health centres dedicated to primary care. so education, health, social services and justice work in coordination. a network protects families, educates children and adults, prevents, cures and combats stigmatization. they also inspire cooperation measures outside europe, which take advantage of the knowledge acquired. the commission should also benefit from this experience.
madam president, female genital mutilation is an intolerable form of violence against women. it is practiced in childhood and causes physical harm, irreparable damage to physical and sexual health and emotional damage for life. this is a practice that particularly affects the most vulnerable: girls up to 15 years of age and the poorest classes. it is essential to criminalise and punish the perpetrators, but also to prevent this violence, to take action to raise awareness and to raise awareness in the communities where these crimes occur, to educate new generations about women's rights. in our view, the fight to eradicate female genital mutilation is inseparable from the fight to protect and strengthen women's sexual and reproductive rights, the need for access to education and, in particular, to sexual education and the improvement of maternal and child health conditions. ending female genital mutilation will be a step forward for the rights of women and girls, and that's why we fight.
the adoption of a european strategy to combat female genital mutilation in the world is essential. social conventions, religious traditions, stereotypes associated with female sexuality cannot continue to be a reason to cause irreparable harm to the bodies of girls and women. unfortunately, there is little reliable data available on this scourge that should no longer exist in the 21st century. it is known that there are about 200 million victims worldwide, 500,000 of them in the european union. there are therefore three aspects which we consider to be fundamental. firstly, that the member states collect more data on this phenomenon in their country and train their professionals to be more effective in combating it. secondly, that we support innovative technology-based responses such as the i-cut app by the group 'the restorers', the kenyan girls, sakharov prize finalists, who we are receiving here today and who, one day, i hope we can receive to receive the prize themselves, as prizewinners, and that we continue to advocate for the european union's accession to the istanbul convention, which provides for the criminalisation of female genital mutilation. we will not rest until one woman or girl is maimed.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the situation here discussed of the degrading bacha bazi custom in logar province, afghanistan, merits only the most vivid repudiation. under the guise of a so-called tradition, for too long we have turned a blind eye to a flagrant violation of children's rights and the most basic rules of human rights. the steps finally taken by the afghan government to eradicate this practice have proved insufficient and reports continue to arrive of children being abused and human rights defenders being attacked and arbitrarily detained. it is time to demand that all those who fight for the rights of children be released and protected and that this abuse be completely eradicated. that impunity be ended and that children be guaranteed access to justice and not be extradited when they seek refuge in other countries. we know that mindsets take time to change, and that's why we need the mobilization of afghan society, of activists, of the authorities, of the religious leaders. we all need to fight this scourge and it requires legislative change, but also intervention through education to protect future generations.
