mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a very important issue affecting the future of tens of thousands of families and children in romania, but also throughout central and eastern europe, and i believe that both the european parliament and the european commission must act as urgently as possible to solve this problem. as of 1 january 2019, a law entered into force in austria whereby the allowances of children coming from romania and from all central and eastern europe and whose parents work on the territory of austria were considerably reduced by adjusting them to the living standard of the community countries where these children live. such a measure cannot be allowed in a member state of the european union, where the rights of european citizens are enshrined in the european treaties, and especially if we are talking about - and in this case we are talking about - a measure that affects the future, education and development of our children. it also seems to me outrageous that, although these workers coming from central and eastern europe contribute to the national social system in austria, pay taxes and fees in austria, they do not receive the same benefits as austrian citizens. that is why i call on both the european commission and the european parliament to react accordingly. the european commission has a duty to sanction this arbitrary law, which affects the future of tens of thousands of children, and i think we cannot accept such a situation.
the reporter. madam president, energy security is a strategic area for the union and nuclear fusion is one of the future solutions to achieve this need. as parliament's rapporteur on this dossier, i believe that funding for european participation in the iter project, which concerns the generation of electricity from nuclear fusion, should continue throughout the next multiannual financial framework. from the outset, europe played a leading role in the iter project, developed in close cooperation with the non-european signatories to the agreement. as rapporteur, i supported this project, convinced that the switch to fusion electricity will profoundly change the future of energy globally. eur 6 billion will be the euratom contribution for the european union to remain in this project for the period 2021-2027. these six billion are nothing but an investment in the union's energy security. i regret that parliament is not a co-legislator and that we have only an advisory role in this matter. the european parliament will continue to monitor the progress of this project in the coming years, in particular through discharge reports. the funds allocated must be spent efficiently. the european agency responsible should continue to work with the other partners to ensure that there are no delays in the proposed programme and that the estimated costs are not exceeded.
in writing. this own-initiative report, based on the study public sector reform: how the eu budget is used to encourage this reform published in 2016, aims to recommend that member states contribute to administrative capacity building and improved governance through electronic tools, thereby increasing citizens' access to public services. the study shows that the potential of egovernment solutions could be one of the main objectives of the eu's public administration reforms, as they facilitate citizens' access to public services. public administration in the member states is essential for the implementation of the eu budget and, when it functions effectively, can contribute to the creation of modern systems capable of increasing prosperity and well-being in the eu. improving administrative capacity and governance at member state level could also accelerate better use of the eu budget.
madam president, yesterday we celebrated the 451st anniversary of the act of religious tolerance and freedom of conscience in transylvania – today romania. in a europe rife with violent religious conflict, this was the first declaration of this sort, laying down the basis of hundreds of years of peaceful and respectful co-existence. sadly the general situation does not seem to be any brighter today. more than 70% of the global population suffers from restrictions of freedom of religion or belief, and we frequently see violent expressions of religious fundamentalism. in this context, the creation of the position of the special envoy already carries the message that the eu is strongly committed to promoting religious freedom in the world. i also recommend taking a position with a multi-year term and developing its working networks with the other institutions. it is crucial that we implement the eu guidelines on freedom of religion or belief effectively, in order to advance these values worldwide in our foreign policy. europe needs to set an example once again, as it did nearly 500 years ago.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. romania assumed the presidency of the european union for the first time since its accession to the union. i am confident that you will successfully manage the extremely complex challenges of the coming months. the big question is whether we can achieve a really important political outcome. will you be able to join schengen? romania must join the schengen area, president juncker said in bucharest. i call on those member states who are obstructing it to change their position, president tajani said. but the decision is in the hands of the member states, who have been delaying our accession for eight years for political reasons without justification. the rmdsz is pushing for romania's accession to schengen, and we hope that this will happen as soon as possible. it is in the interest of our community and our country and it is in the interest of the union. this is the beginning of the end of the double standards with which the west treats romania and the other eastern european member states. i wish you luck.
commissioner, i have noted with concern a decision taken by the austrian parliament which affects thousands of families and children in romania and other eastern european countries and which violates both the european rules in force and the principles of equality and non-discrimination within the european union. more than 130 000 european children are affected, commissioner. austria is in breach of article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the austrian parliament turns the children of european citizens into children of different ranks. it is unacceptable in a european union as we all want it to be. citizens of other european countries who work in austria pay the same taxes as austrian workers. in those circumstances, why would they receive from the austrian state, in total, for child benefits, about eur 100 million less than the austrians? isn't that a violation of the principles of labor law? is this not a violation of the rights of european citizens? i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take urgent action to punish non-compliance with european rules and to restore compliance with them.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in the first half of this year, romania will hold the presidency of the council of the european union, and unfortunately, 12 years after romania's accession to the eu, we are still having to talk about the fact that the other member states will not allow romania and bulgaria to enter the schengen area. this situation is highly undignified, as the european commission already indicated in 2011 that the two countries are ready for accession, have taken the necessary steps to strengthen border protection and are able to provide protection of the external borders of the area unlike other schengen states. by obstructing the expansion of the schengen area without any formal justification, in effect arbitrarily, some member states are sending a message to the 25 million or so eu citizens living in these two countries that they are second-class citizens who do not deserve a fair explanation for the situation. it would be important for governments opposed to romania and bulgaria joining schengen to take their decision and publicly justify it, because if something is destroying cohesion within the eu, this situation will do so.
madam president, as you know, austria has recently adopted and started to apply legislation on child benefits for non-resident children. in other words, from now on, in austria, romanian citizens who work in this country but who do not have their children with them, will be discriminated against. although romanians working in austria pay taxes just like austrian citizens, their children's allowances will be reduced at the level of their home state, which means a discriminatory regime that should not be accepted in europe and it is not just romanians, but all citizens of other eu countries working in austria. such a decision violates a fundamental social and economic principle: at equal contributions and work, benefits should be equal. but now one european country, austria, refuses to abide by this principle. such policies are precisely those that affect the cohesion of the european project and citizens' confidence in it. i call on the european commission to take urgent measures to ensure that romanian citizens in austria are not victims of discriminatory policies incompatible with european values.
the reporter. mr president, i ask, on the basis of the rules of procedure, that the report be returned to the commission for the interinstitutional negotiations to begin. thank you for your cooperation and your vote.
the president-in-office of the council. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be here before you today as prime minister of romania. i have taken over the european mandate from austria and i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my thanks for the austrian presidency. at the same time, i would also like to thank our trio partners, finland and croatia, with whom we have had very good coordination in preparing a balanced joint work programme for the next eighteen months. in the following, i will present the priorities of the romanian presidency of the council of the european union and the vision for the future of the union. ladies and gentlemen, europe has always known how to overcome obstacles, how to rise again after less glorious episodes in history. the european project itself, in its present form, has been shaped by the multiple crises it has gone through. today we are again at a complex juncture in the process of european construction, but as you well know, any such situation can be turned into an opportunity, into a new beginning. that is why i say that, in my view, romania's holding the rotating presidency for the next six months is not just a formal duty. there are over 500 million european citizens who are waiting for an answer about the future of the home in which they live and which is called europe. i therefore believe it is important to show the citizens of the union that the european institutions work for them and, above all, that they produce results that improve their lives and their future prospects. i am aware that the first stage of the rotating presidency will be intensive and time-consuming in terms of decision-making. that is why i am counting heavily on your support to complete as many legislative files as possible on the european agenda and to respond to the challenges at european level. the vision of the romanian presidency of the european project is structured around the idea of cohesion, as a common european value declined in all its dimensions: political cohesion, illustrated by the need for unity between member states; economic and territorial cohesion, in order to reduce the development gaps between member states and between regions; social cohesion, important in terms of preserving the four freedoms of the internal market of the european union. this understanding of the concept of cohesion is translated in a transversal way in our thematic priorities, which are based on four main pillars of action: the european union is a global actor, a europe of common values. the europe of convergence is the first pillar of action of the romanian presidency of the council of the european union and aims at ensuring economic growth, social development, reducing disparities, competitiveness, connectivity and sustainability. the single market is, of course, the union's greatest achievement, the nucleus of the european construction. therefore, one of the objectives of the romanian presidency is to advance the legislative agenda in the field of the internal market, with a view to finalizing the framework necessary for its proper functioning. we need to strengthen the scientific and technological base of european industry, which can boost our international competitiveness and at the same time generate economic growth and jobs. we will continue to promote digitalisation, including in the field of european industry. the digital offensive has already been promoted by the previous estonian and austrian presidencies of the council of the european union and we will also aim to continue to work at the same sustained pace. we will focus on developing functional east-west, north-south links that facilitate connections of all kinds, for the operationalisation of the four freedoms of movement and for increasing the competitiveness of the european economy and the standard of living in less developed regions. i was talking about the need for a long-term industrial policy, and just as important is the regulation of the energy union. these two issues will occupy a prominent place on our presidency's agenda. the second pillar of the romanian presidency will be a europe of security. the european union faces a wide range of risks and threats that can undermine the values and prosperity of our open societies. in a world of accelerated digitalisation, we need to move forward in protecting citizens in cyberspace. it is necessary to strengthen the union's resilience to cyber-attacks. cybersecurity will therefore be a necessary condition for any project relating to the information society. in the context of the security of the union, we will also take seriously the negotiation and finalisation of initiatives on the coherent management of migration flows, the strengthening of the union's external borders, emergency interventions, the fight against terrorism, the protection of citizens' safety in cyberspace, the operationalization and even the extension of the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to terrorist offences, and the strengthening of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. we want to contribute to the formulation of viable solutions in these areas related to migration and promote cooperation between the states of origin and transit, including in the fight against trafficking in human beings. the third pillar that we have proposed for romania's presidency is europe - a global actor. in our view, the main direction of action in this area must be based on the common commitments undertaken in the european union's global strategy for foreign and security policy. in the field of security policy, we will promote the strengthening of the defence and security capabilities of the european union, in close complementarity with similar processes within nato. at the same time, we must turn our attention to our immediate neighbourhood, which means advancing the union's enlargement policy. the 10th anniversary of the launch of the eastern partnership this year will be an important moment in this regard. however, special attention should be paid to the western balkans. we will also support the implementation of the union's international commitments. the key benchmarks are the promotion of trade interests, the modernisation of the multilateral trading system and the expansion of economic partnership and free trade agreements. the fourth pillar of the romanian presidency will be the europe of common values. in other words, to boost european political cohesion, we aim to promote intensively the principles and values that unite us. at the same time, we must firmly combat a number of problems that still confront societies within the union, such as racism, intolerance, xenophobia, populism, anti-semitism or hate speech. we want a more democratic union, so we will promote the equal treatment to which all member states and all european citizens aspire. this is essential for citizens' confidence in the european project. i say this from the perspective of the romanian citizens, whom i represent as prime minister and who, despite their very strong attachment to the union, feel unequal treatment towards romania, especially when our country is criticized for aspects that are natural in other member states or when romania is imposed certain conditionalities that do not exist in other states of the union. the romanians feel unfair when they see their country being kept out of the schengen area and i would like to take this opportunity to thank president juncker and president tajani for their full support for us joining the schengen area. i have given you these examples from my country to show that certain decisions taken at european level in relation to certain member states ultimately affect the citizens of those states and determine, in one way or another, their trust in the union. so we must always think of the citizens of the member states concerned by our decisions when we make decisions and we must eliminate any form of differential treatment so as to strengthen the common values of the union. education and culture are key to europe's future, both from the perspective of the individual european citizen and from the perspective of strengthening the european project. solutions are also needed to engage young people in shaping a strong europe based on common european values. ladies and gentlemen, we are all following the decisions in the british parliament and it is obvious that brexit will be the focus of attention during romania's presidency of the council of the european union. we will turn this page of the union's history, but we must also draw the lessons from this situation. in may, our democracy, the largest transnational democracy, will elect a new european parliament. i propose that we make the most of the future electoral context, as it is an opportunity for us who believe in europe to promote a stronger union oriented towards its founding principles, in line with our european spirit. i believe in a strong europe through unity, in a better europe by fulfilling its commitments to its citizens and globally, and why not, i believe in a more european europe by promoting authentic european values and stimulating citizens' sense of belonging to the european space. a strong and united europe in all its dimensions - political, economic and social - is the best solution for the future of the european project.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, speaking on behalf of president juncker, i am delighted to be here for the start of this historic first—ever romanian presidency. romania, just like my own country, estonia, and many others in europe, celebrated its 100th anniversary last year. it was a time for us all to remember the past, but also to look at how far we have come in that time, and romania has come a long way. it is now in its rightful place at the heart of europe, and there is no better symbol of that progress than this presidency because, over the next six months, romania will lead the council of ministers through a momentous time for our union. i was in bucharest last week, along with all my colleagues from the commission, to see first-hand the good level of preparations, as well as the enthusiasm for the task ahead. but with a presidency always comes responsibility, even more so during periods of change and campaigns. as president juncker has said many times, the commission is at your disposal and is ready to support you every step of the way. we will work hand in hand with all of the institutions and parties involved to make sure that the next six months are productive, successful and a further factor of unity and solidarity. but, just as you can count on us, we also count on you. we count on your leadership and stability, and we count on your ability to build bridges and build consensus both in europe and at home. i say that because any successful presidency depends, first and foremost, on national unity and political consensus. a united front at home will help a united europe move forward. romania knows the power of unity better than most. when preparing to enter the union, the whole country worked in unison to make sure that it fulfilled all of its accession criteria. this was not a box-ticking exercise. it was the result of a country pulling together, uniting behind the goal of consolidating its young democracy in a union of solidarity and common values. these values – freedom, democracy and the rule of law – are what the country fought for, and these are the values that can never be compromised or weakened anywhere in europe. we must all show that in the next six months and beyond. i started by saying that with the presidency comes the responsibility to deliver for all europeans. that will be romania’s task in the next six months. it will be harder than usual: there are 242 proposals presented by the commission that still need to be agreed by the co-legislators, and there will only be a short period of time to get as many as possible of them over the line before this house rises on 18 april for the start of the election campaign. many of these 242 proposals go right to the heart of what matters, from brexit preparedness to migration and asylum rules. in my area, the digital single market, seven of the 30 proposals we have made still need to be agreed. these cover issues that make a real difference in the lives of europeans. it is about making it easier to buy and sell online across borders, about ensuring that we have rights to eprivacy and can protect ourselves from cyber-attacks, and about having corporate rules fit for the 21st century. the stakes are high in the digital world and across the world. this is particularly true when it comes to making real progress on the next long—term budget for the european union. this is not about numbers or decimal points. it is about deciding what kind of union we want tomorrow. it is our future in figures. the debate on the budget is about showing europeans that our union is ready to take its destiny into its own hands. when leaders meet in sibiu on 9 may, we should show europeans a perspective for the future of a stronger, more united and more sovereign union. there would be no better message to europeans going to the polls just a few weeks later. i think, in particular, of those who will be voting for the first time. whether they be in the east or the west, the north or the south, these young people have a lot in common. they are looking for hope, for a brighter more certain future for themselves, and they are looking for a union that breathes with both of its lungs – east and west – and unites people from different parts of europe. we must reach out to them and show them that their union will deliver for them. that is the task ahead of this romanian presidency and we are all behind you to make it happen. (applause)
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, welcome to the european parliament, madam prime minister. the presidents of the european institutions have conveyed their full support for the success of the romanian presidency. that is what we want here in the european parliament, and we want it. we have heavy files on the negotiating table with the council: migration, transport mobility, over forty reports on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and more. the solutions to these negotiations will shape the future of the european union in the years ahead. but as you know, madam prime minister, you have a lot of new ministers who have no experience of negotiating with the european institutions. that is why i ask you to ask these ministers to rely on the recommendations of the experts from the romanian representation, who are very familiar with the files on the european agenda. you have rightly expressed concern that the eastern member states should not be left on the periphery of the european union, but as long as, for example, romania is neither a member of the schengen area nor a member of the euro area, our country is not fully integrated into the european union. the presidents of the european institutions have shown that romania is ready and will support its accession to the schengen area, but this is not enough. as prime minister, you have an obligation to all romanians and to the business community in romania to meet as soon as possible with the prime ministers of the netherlands and france, with the chancellors of germany and austria and to convince them that romania deserves, is ready to join the schengen area. in the netherlands you should go to the dutch parliament, but without the presidents of the two chambers of the romanian parliament, who are devoid of any credibility, for well-known reasons. as regards the euro area, as chair of the national commission for the preparation of accession to the euro area, you have stated that you will make public the action plan to this end. 2018 has passed and we still don't have such an action plan. please fulfill your promise as soon as possible. i wish you success in the exercise of the romanian presidency of the council.
mr. president, i - unlike many who have criticized today, and argued, and less argued - believe this presidency will be a successful presidency. i am convinced that the romanian presidency will be a successful one, because we need it to be successful. the european union is going through a very difficult time. it's necessary that everything that we've said and discussed here happens, which is why i guarantee you have all the support, and mine as much as it matters. because time does not permit, i will only bring up two subjects that i think are important. first, three-quarters of the member countries of the european union are experiencing an accelerating process of modern slavery: people who are deprived of their freedom, working, without rights, without knowing their rights. not only romania is affected, but three quarters of the eu member states are experiencing this phenomenon. in germany alone, more than 170,000 citizens were victims of modern slavery at one time. the second very important topic: i'm talking about cohesion. of course we need financial resources. the direct and indirect costs of corruption at the level of the european union are estimated at almost one trillion euros. of course, romania is affected, and according to some estimates, about 40 billion euros are lost annually, direct and indirect costs. but in italy, it's about 200 billion euros a year, in spain it's 120 billion, and so on. so a trillion is money that we can recover and use at the european level for that cohesion that you talk about. i think this should be a major item on the presidency's agenda.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, the rotating presidency will undoubtedly be a challenging presidency. it is not easy to talk about the future of europe in the face of brexit, but it is very easy for some to talk out of the real world, and this misinformation and lack of coherence in making statements is one of the great challenges we face at union level. without a doubt, the rule of law is a priority for romania and this is shown by the way we strictly respect it.
mr president, there are two of us, nicolai. who has the floor?
no, i have no questions. i want to express myself.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, but do you not think it is a shame that today the president of the european people's party, mr joseph daul, congratulated mr president iohannis, the president of romania, saying that he would lead the presidency of the council of the european union excellently, when we all know very well that the rotating presidency of the council of the european union is taken over by the government of romania, led by the romanian prime minister? is it not also a shame that the austrian prime minister kurz, on 21 december, in bucharest, symbolically handed over the presidency of the council of the european union to president iohannis, making yet another great political mistake and at the same time a deception towards romanian and european citizens who need to know the truth?
mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to negotiate legislative files with the presidency of the council provided by my country. my position as a romanian mep, member of the national liberal party, is as follows: i already work and will work as before, moreover with the permanent representation of romania and i will contribute to the closure of legislative files. i will continue to defend the interests of the romanians in all cases that are pending. i do not accept the anti-eu positions of the psd-alde government. i will oppose the strange proposals of some ministers, such as restricting the freedom of movement of romanian workers. i do not support the psd-alde government's attacks on justice and the rule of law. madam dancila, you've been talking a lot lately about domestic political consensus. i do not agree with a consensus against justice, the rule of law and european values. you have applied for entry into the schengen area. it's not complicated. correct the laws of justice. send ministers to talk in european capitals, convince governments to vote in romania's favour and be careful who you send to chair the justice and home affairs council. do not run away from european funds. use them. the romanians need highways, hospitals, railways. if you do all this, you will demonstrate that you are on the side of romanians and a european romania and you will gain the respect of your european partners. it is your obligation to represent romania in accordance with the wishes of the majority of romanians and not the majority in the parliament in bucharest. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. yes, it's a question, in my opinion, that comes from a lack of information. madam deputy, madam colleague, i invite you to come with me to romania, to my region, where other colleagues of ours have been and visited the city and the region. i invite you to come and see what is happening, in the subject you have raised here in romania.
mr president, madam prime minister, distinguished members of the government, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the clear way in which you have presented the priorities and the programme of activities of the romanian presidency. at the same time, please do not be misled or confused, because some of the speeches made by colleagues in the european parliament were not related to the agenda or the romanian presidency, but only to the premature start of an election campaign. and don't be angry at mr. verhofstadt for a second. you must understand him: he and his lordship have a little deal with a small party in romania. it doesn't make the electoral threshold, and that annoyance has to be blamed on that failure. i would also like to encourage you, along with the nearly 200 officials from the romanian representation in brussels, along with the hundreds of officials who are preparing romania's presidency in romania, to follow this timetable that you have presented, madam prime minister, because the four pillars that you have presented - convergence, security, a global europe and a europe of values - are something that will remain in history for romania and this will continue to be remembered and will be kept as the most important political step that romania has taken and that romanians have taken in the european union.
mr president, madam prime minister, each presidency must act along three lines: 1. to continue where the previous presidency left off; 2. to achieve its own objectives; and 3. to fit in with the concrete landscape in which the european union finds itself at the moment. romania has shaped its programme in accordance with these requirements. today, when the liberal international order based on clear rules is under assault, romania aims to contribute, through its presidency, to strengthening the european union as the main pillar of this system. at the same time, let us not forget that the european union remains strong not only as an institution in itself but also thanks to the efforts of each member state, for in the world of today and tomorrow, the protection afforded by the institutions of order so far will have to be matched by the economic, political and military efforts of the member states themselves, alongside those for strengthening our union. these objectives cannot be achieved by pursuing petty political interests, discrimination or isolation, but also by fair and honest cooperation between all the members of the european union.
mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first time that we assume the presidency of the council of the european union is a historic moment for our country, and i want to make it very clear: this presidency belongs, first and foremost, to the romanian people. i want to be equally clear: the romanian people are ready for this first presidency of the european union. we see how, for two years now, in romania, people are demonstrating - even publicly, in the streets - in defense of european values, in defense of the rule of law, of an independent judiciary, and they do it with the flag of the european union in their hands. but besides being an honour, the presidency of the european union is also a responsibility, and your government, madam prime minister, will have the responsibility of managing some major european issues. first, the european union's budget for the next seven years: we need to give the beneficiaries of european funds as soon as possible certainty about the amounts of money and the conditions under which european funds will be received. brexit: we're going to have to manage this, as a result of the vote tonight, and we're going to have to give the millions of european citizens in the uk certainty about their own future. third, romania has the opportunity to put the situation in the european union's eastern neighbourhood on the european union's agenda. but above all, you have an obligation to respect european values. that is what the european union expects and that is what the romanian people expect.
mr president, madam prime minister, mr commissioner, esteemed members of the government, dear colleagues, i want to thank you, those who have placed your trust in the romanian presidency. i assure you that i too have been part of a government, i know the members of the government very well, i am convinced that it will take the presidency forward. i will not speak about the programme because, for the first time, it was a very broad council, a very broad committee and we meps worked on this programme. we have very well trained people, both in the house and in the government. i have something else to say. it is unfortunate that these colleagues of ours, who brought false information to parliament, are operating with false information when we, the european parliament, are working to eliminate false news. we are on the threshold of a campaign, but that does not mean we have to attack a member state that takes over the presidency. we need to talk about the subject, we need to talk about the presidency, about the program. i wish you'd asked more questions. what can be done? how can it be done? to propose priorities, not to start talking about things we don't know - and i assure you, you don't know. i wish the presidency success and assure you that a dossier on which i am rapporteur was voted on in plenary today and we will start the institutional negotiations and i assure you, dear colleagues, that in the end you will see what a good presidency romania has. congratulations and good luck!
mr president, madam prime minister, esteemed members of the romanian government, dear colleagues, it is perhaps no coincidence that today, twelve years after romania's accession to the european union, on the occasion of the presentation of romania's priorities to the council of the european union, romania is celebrating two extremely important anniversaries: 169 years since the birth of mihai eminescu, our great national poet, translated into over sixty languages, and the day of national culture. for us romanians, what is happening today, here, now, in the european parliament, when romania, through the voice of prime minister viorica dancila, presents its vision for the mandate of the presidency of the european union, represents a third moment of celebration, a celebration that makes us feel truly sons and daughters of this great european family of the peoples of the european union. i take this opportunity to wish the prime minister viorica dancila and the members of the romanian government every success and to ask you, dear colleagues, to have confidence in romania's capacity and vision during this mandate. it is an honour for me, as a member of the european parliament, to work on the files that will be led by my country's presidency. as vice-president of the european parliament's committee on agriculture, i know that the common agricultural policy is a priority for europe and therefore, madam prime minister, i ask you: what is the vision of the romanian presidency and what does the romanian presidency propose in relation to this european position?
mr president, very briefly: madam prime minister, in recent months, you and members of your government have also criticised the european commission. you have repeatedly said that the work of the european commission is based on misinformation, on superficiality. you also criticised both you and members of your government the european parliament resolution, also claiming that foreign forces have manipulated it and based their position on untruths. how do you think you will be able to work with the commission and parliament, the institutional partners, after you have sown distrust and have also told the romanians that they should not trust the commission and parliament? right here, by the way, some of your former colleagues said the same thing. i want to tell you something else: at the moment you are discussing the priorities of the romanian presidency, in romania, a tv station has suspended its broadcast, because it dared to show images from the protest of august 10. so tell mr bullmann that the situation of the romanian press is a combination of propaganda, pressure on journalists and that there is no longer a free press in romania. that should worry you, madam prime minister, if you're not in a chauvinist logic, if you don't want to go back to the times when propaganda was preferred to the truth. you will be truly european if you wake up, mrs... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my country's assumption of the presidency is a major event for romania and romania will prove to the entire european union its value and administrative capacity, as well as the important role it will play in managing european affairs and in defining the future of european construction. you have to understand that romania has a strategic position and will become a link and a balancing factor that will harmonize the divergent interests that have often separated the east from the west of europe. romania is a deeply european country and i believe it is more important than ever that, in this challenging time, we show unity and solidarity, for the good of all romanians. i regret to say to you, mr verhofstadt, mrs keller and others who have spoken today, that you are in a great error and that your information is incorrect and that you are the victim of gross manipulation. the attacks you are making today against romania and its government are regrettable and i think they fit the logic of an election campaign. romania is a state of law, and the romanian government supports the fundamental rights and freedoms of romanians, while the president of romania, your friend and the friend of the european people, ignores the constitution and the decisions of the constitutional court. finally, if we want a fair and equal europe for all its members, i hope that 2019 will be the year of a union without cvm for romania and bulgaria and with a strengthened schengen area, through the full integration of romania and bulgaria.
vice—president of the commission. – mr president, honourable prime minister, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to thank all of you for this very intense debate. as we know, during the romanian presidency there will be brexit, there will be elections to the european parliament and there will be ongoing negotiations on the next multiannual financial perspective. at the same time, we have to conclude negotiations on 242 different proposals. ‘we are going to do a good job together’ was what president klaus iohannis said last week in bucharest. during our college’s visit to bucharest, i got a clear understanding that romanian ministers are taking those words seriously. i look forward to fruitful cooperation between the european parliament, the european commission and the romanian government during its eu presidency. i wish every success to the romanian eu presidency.
the president-in-office of the council. mr president, i listened very carefully to the speeches of my colleagues, former colleagues in the european parliament. to be honest, i was expecting proposals, i was expecting solutions, a positive approach, so that all the european citizens who are looking at us today would see in the positions taken answers to the problems that concern them, answers to the problems that exist for different social categories, for different regions and for different countries. as i said in a previous speech, i'm not here to account for certain things. i have come here to the european parliament as prime minister of romania to find together solutions that will make a stronger european union, a european union that is much closer to the citizens of all the member states. i would like to thank the vice-president for his kind words, for the confidence which the commission has in the romanian presidency of the council of the european union. we need your support and i am convinced that together with the european commission, with the european parliament, we will ensure stability and consensus for the issues and challenges that we have on the european agenda. i'm going to try to answer some of the questions that have been raised. mr. stolojan, the new ministers have experience. they held the shadow presidency and liaised with both the chairs of the european parliament's committees and the line commissioners, one for each area. we are certainly relying on the general secretariat of the council of the european union. please don't leave with the preconceived notion that cabinet ministers don't handle the files or that they won't be able to give positive answers to the problems they have to solve. on your part, as a romanian, i expected you to have confidence in the romanian ministers and in the capacity of romania. tell me about the meeting and the prime minister's obligation to meet with the prime ministers of france or the netherlands. i have the full authority to do this, i have the full authority to go to the dutch parliament and i have the full authority to tell the president of romania to address these issues in the european council, because he is participating in the european council. on the euro area: the roadmap for joining the euro area was finalised in december 2018, is already in print and outlines the steps we need to take in this direction. so we kept our word, and if you want this program, we're at your disposal to provide it. we thank the s&d group president for his support and we assure him that we support the rule of law but at the same time we support human rights, we support the rights of those who have suffered as a result of wrong decisions by the judiciary. mr. verhofstadt, i'm sorry that you left here. i want to assure him that we are aware of the files and the challenges we face. that is why i asked for consensus, because we need co-decision, we need consensus and we will work towards it. at the same time, i expected a political group leader to come with assessments related to the european agenda, not to the internal affairs of a country that had just taken over the presidency of the council of the european union. for the sake of credibility, i think we need to speak in the light of the facts and i would like to hear from mr verhofstadt what he reproaches the romanian government with. at the same time, i ask mr verhofstadt to let the romanians decide for themselves, to believe in their own honesty and not to try to impose his own convictions on the romanians. and my colleagues, i'm sure i can come up with suggestions for other countries, but i think we have to let each people and each people's citizens believe, choose and have their own beliefs. mrs. keller, you say that thousands of romanians have taken to the streets for good governance. i think you've been misinformed about good governance. i want to give you just a few figures, to show what good governance means in romania: we have economic growth above 4%, economic deficit 2.92%, unemployment below 4%, investments in romania increased by over 10%. i think that's good governance, and i think misinformation by some colleagues in the european parliament has caused this perception. if you want, we send you all the figures and everything the romanian government has done to ensure the rise in living standards and good governance for romania and romanians. i think you should compare the results with other countries and maybe then you will see that romania has a government that knows what to do and that has been concerned about the problems of romanians and romania. mr paksas asked us why the interest in the unification of the european union has been replaced by the interest in the division of the european union. i think that's a question we all need to ask ourselves. i think we need to work more and see what unites us and see less and appreciate less what divides us, because only together, only united, only through cohesion, can we make important steps for the european union. i would like to thank maria joão rodrigues for her very nice words and indeed the sibiu summit will give us the opportunity to shape the future of the european union together. i believe that talking about the future of the european union means finding together, regardless of political group and all the european institutions, the best solutions, which bring us closer to the citizens, so that we have a united future and a future that is as good as possible for the citizens of the union. mr. hökmark, the government must fight corruption. amnesty i have said many times: i have no legal act on the table of the government on this matter. we don't want to defend anyone, we just want to protect citizens whose rights have been violated. i would be very happy if, when we talk about the rule of law, when we talk about justice, we all fight against corruption and the romanian government will do this but, equally, protect the rights of citizens who have been affected by judicial decisions, by secret protocols between the judiciary and the secret services. those who now shout loudly that they are fighting corruption, that they want to fight for the rule of law, many of them want to hide what actually happened in romania and, in fact, they were part of this system that led to the violation of human rights. mr. marinescu, your position against the romanian government is unjustified. you said that there were attacks by the psd-alde government against justice. i don't remember and no one, no romanian, i don't think can say that the government of romania has taken a decision against justice. all laws related to justice have been voted in the parliament of romania, and the parliament of romania is the expression of the vote of the romanian citizens. you mentioned european funds. i think you meant the technocratic government, because we, during our government, in a year's time we recovered. we have 26% absorption of european funds, not counting agriculture, compared to 27% as the european average. i believe that the fact that this government is on the side of the romanians is proven by the measures we take and not by those who voted here in the european parliament against their own country. mrs bresso, indeed, territorial convergence is very important and no region should be left behind. rural areas, peripheral areas, mountain areas we will welcome any suggestions to advance this topic on our agenda. you told us that 20 million young people will be voting for the first time and what we can do to get them to come out and vote. first, we have to show that we have solutions for them. secondly, we need to show that our dispute is not between political groups, between citizens often of the same member state and that our disputes and our solutions are for them, that we can add value and that they must be reflected in the decisions we take in the european institutions. i believe, i trust that together we can do this. i trust the members of the european parliament, i trust the european commission, i trust the council that together we will be able to give in the next six months the answers that these 20 million young people expect, the answers that the more than 500 million european citizens expect. mrs járóka, you are telling us that we are a poor state and that we have to do something about it. for the past year, that's exactly what i've been doing. we raised the standard of living. we have seen that austerity is not a solution for our country and not for other member states. we raised wages. we raised the pensions. we raised the salaries of the doctors. we raised the teachers' salaries. we've increased benefits for the underprivileged. we invested in rural areas, in small towns. these are the things i think we need to do, not to mention poverty, beyond the decisions we need to make together at european level. one last thing: the last question i want to answer - in fact, the last accusations - i've given a lot of thought to whether or not it's worth giving this answer, but i think citizens need to distinguish between a hostile attitude and an open attitude. mr preda, the romanian government and the prime minister of romania are not criticizing the european parliament and the european commission. i was a member of the european parliament and i have always supported the pro-european stance. after nine years in the european parliament, in which i have not caused a scandal, as you have, in which i have made a common front with all the positive solutions for the european institutions, i cannot take a position against these institutions. i criticised the resolution because i thought and i think we should have this unit of measurement. you spoke about the protests in romania on august 10. what do you say about the protests in france? what is your attitude? i'm not going to go into that, because france makes its own decisions, but france and no other french mep has come to criticize their own country here in the european parliament. (intervention by mr preda, without microphone)
the president-in-office of the council. i believe that we must have confidence in the european institutions and i believe that our attitude matters to the citizens watching us from home. you made a very serious statement about freedom of the press. i assure you, honourable members, honourable former members, commissioners, i assure the european parliament that the romanian government has nothing to do with this matter. but that's misinformation, that's what we don't have to do from now on. indeed, one television station was interrupted for ten minutes by the national audiovisual council. i don't know what the reason is. the romanian government has nothing to do with this. at the same time, we must see, to give more confidence in our decisions and in ourselves as pro-europeans, to be careful about the statements we make and to speak what reflects reality because otherwise, each of us will be judged, but more importantly, this european construction, which deserves a good future, will be judged. thank you again. i am counting heavily on the support of the european parliament, on the support of the european commission, and i wish and we wish all of us success in our pro-european journey.
in writing. as a romanian mep, i am proud of romania's taking over the presidency of the council of the european union. but there are some shadows in this festive moment. for several months, there has been suspiciously long talk about romania's 'incapacity' to exercise this mandate. it got to the point where, more jokingly, more seriously, another country offered to take over this mandate, so that romania could better prepare for another term. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the issue that seems to me to be much more important is the one of the priorities that the government in bucharest has set itself. even a cursory glance at the magazine reveals that 'common values' and 'convergence' are actually saying the same thing. the implicit message is that the romanian presidency is defending a union in crisis. but the real solution in a crisis is reform. and how could the romanian government reform the european union when it is unable to reform romania? i wish the romanian presidency success, but i remain disappointed that this mandate will only perpetuate a crisis situation.
in writing. priorities of the romanian presidency 15 january 2019 as representatives of the hungarian community in romania, we formally proposed last year that the romanian presidency should include the protection of indigenous national minorities in europe in its list of priorities, and encourage the sharing of best practices in this regard. there are 50 million indigenous citizens of national or linguistic minorities in the european union, whose situation should be addressed by the eu and the country holding the eu presidency, as the lisbon treaty prohibits discrimination on grounds of national minority status. the commission has also been active in promoting the rights of minorities in the eu, and has been active in promoting the rights of minorities in the eu. it is important to note that the laws adopted in romania during the eu accession process to ensure the use of minority languages, or in particular in education, are not being respected in romania either, and therefore the issue must be addressed at european level, as national solutions do not work.
in writing. the european union budget beyond 2021 should strongly emphasise the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. this objective should be a priority on the agenda of the romanian presidency of the eu. we now know that the member states do not support the idea of finalising the union's budget before the european parliament elections. so the new budget will be decided by those we elect on may 26th! the european parliament elections are about the continuation of development in transylvania and the future of agricultural subsidies. it's up to us to decide whether the majority will be those who want to cut funding or those who want to keep developing. the union's budget for the next seven years will be adopted after the elections, but we are already working on the draft budget here in parliament and in the council. all consultations, all technical meetings are conducted by romanian diplomats, experts and government representatives. we expect them to defend the common agricultural policy and the future of the cohesion funds with determination, because this is in the common interest of central and eastern europe and in the interest of our community.
in writing. – i welcome the co-rapporteurs for this comprehensive report and european commission’s proposal to further expand and simplify the european fund for strategic investments, by establishing investeu as a single eu investment support mechanism for the financial period 2021-2027 that aims to further boost job creation, investment and innovation across the member states. building on the leverage principle of juncker’s plan, investeu aims to trigger almost eur 700 billion of private and public additional investment by providing an eu budget guarantee of eur 40 billion. the purpose is to supply financing to economic actors with a risk profile that private financiers are not always able or willing to address. this is definitely the case of smes, which are currently facing considerable challenges when accessing finance across within the eu. accordingly, i express my support for the increase of eur 2.8 billion for smes and social investment windows, as i find it crucial for investeu to succeed in simplifying access to finance in all phases of smes’ lifecycles, but also in providing them with more diversified sources of funding. these measures can significantly increase smes’ capacity to finance their growth, competitiveness and resilience to economic downturn, and will eventually generate new jobs and social well-being for our citizens.
the rapporteur for the opinion is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, since 2003, the european union has had three sanctions programmes in the health sector, which have had very good results. for the next financial framework, the commission proposed that the previous health instrument be part of the european social fund plus as its 'health' component. the envi committee supported the continuation of a separate health programme, which would have given a strong signal that health is a priority, especially as according to the latest eurobarometer, a majority of european citizens support increased eu intervention in health. but whether it is a separate programme or part of the social fund, the most important thing is that there are clear objectives and that they are met. the main proposals adopted by the envi commission, which had exclusive competence on the 'health' component, were: to increase the budget for health to €473 million; to make access to quality, sustainable and affordable care patient-centred, encouraging disease prevention, early diagnosis, promotion of lifelong health; and to set up a steering committee for health to develop work plans effectively and maximise synergies with other programmes and instruments in which health is integrated.
in writing. europe is at a crucial juncture, where its relevance and success in the coming decades will be determined by its ability to remain competitive in the global economy and to ensure high levels of employment, education and training, health, social inclusion and active participation in society. for europe to be competitive and united in the future, i believe it is necessary to invest in its citizens now. also, given that the european social fund is the main union instrument focusing on employment, skills and social inclusion, it is essential that the bulk of this programme be redirected towards improving social, economic and territorial cohesion in all parts of the union. to this end, i would like to emphasise the following: support should be provided to improve the quality, accessibility, inclusion, effectiveness and labour market relevance of education and training systems. one of the concrete measures we need at this time is to build key competences, especially digital competences, including data protection and information management skills that all people need to have in this digital age.
mr president, european territorial cooperation plays an important role in cohesion policy and is an essential element in the development of regions. in this respect, the initiatives of the european groupings for territorial cooperation have achieved remarkable results in implementing projects financed by the structural and investment funds. member states should therefore confer on these clusters enhanced management capacity functions and encourage local and regional authorities to set up cooperation clusters with legal and investment management capacity. the definition of 'regional integration and cooperation organisations' as a group of regions in the same geographical area, which aim to cooperate more closely in areas of common interest, is intended to set specific regional development objectives, which pursue the common interest of the regions. in this context, i appreciate the initiative of some romanian mayors, who created the 'western alliance', requesting more responsibilities for the management of european funding, with a view to strengthening territorial cooperation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said here. it's a very important subject. i think it turns out that we have a majority here in the european parliament that wants britain to be here. i want to congratulate the negotiator. he did everything right. the problem is not with us. the problem is in britain and i'm worried about what's happening to european citizens, to my fellow citizens who live there. i'm worried about what will happen to british citizens living in the european union and i'm also worried about trade relations. i think we have to continue negotiations, but britain, through representatives not through the population, because the majority of the population wants to be in the european union (...) i've been to london, i've been to birmingham, i've talked to citizens, to business people: they all want to remain in the european union. but it is the politicians who are responsible for the misinformation, and i recently saw a member of the european parliament, a member of the right, when he was advertising to urge us that if britain leaves, we will pay out of our own pockets the pensions of the british meps. it's not true!
president of the government of spain. mr president, thank you to all the members who have spoken. firstly, i would like to thank you for the tone of the debate; secondly, i would also like to thank you for the intensity of the speeches, because i think that it also encourages the debate, especially after having had to listen to a great many speeches, a great number of speeches of different sign and orientations. if you wish, i will naturally reply to you as a whole, not individually, and i will do so on two lines which i believe can sum up not only the spirit of my first speech but also the spirit and content of the replies to the speeches of each of the members: firstly, multilateralism and, secondly - as a spanish socialist mep has rightly said - federalism. in relation to multilateralism, i said in my first speech, ladies and gentlemen, that the spanish government believes that it is defending the 2030 agenda, not only from the point of view of a political agenda for transformation at national level, but also that we believe that in the next decade the european union must be the great ambassador, the great activist of the 2030 agenda in the multilateral order. there is, for example, that 2030 agenda, which makes a firm and unequivocal defence of gender equality; it is absolutely in line with the approach i have made to all of you in relation to the european strategy for gender equality. or what we are doing at the level of spain with the adoption of a series of measures linked to the fight against gender violence, but also with the compliance with the state pact against gender violence or the adoption of laws that reduce the wage gap between men and women, and employment equality between men and women. i would also like to say something about this: there have been some speakers who have spoken about unemployment, which is still totally unacceptable in spain, in comparison with other countries in the european union and in terms of the average for the euro zone and the european union. but i will also tell you something: right now in spain there are about 19 million members, and for the first time in the history of social security, 48% of those registered in our country are women. more than eight million women have found work, are enrolled in social security and are integrated into the labour market. i will also say one thing: the measure adopted by the spanish government to increase the minimum wage for all occupations by 22%, the biggest increase since 1977 in the history of our country, in the democratic history of our country, benefits 70% of the population, especially women, who are unfortunately receiving a lower wage and are therefore the recipients of the minimum wage for all occupations. so, gender equality, child poverty, you know? the fight against child poverty is also one of the main pillars of the 2030 agenda. we have not only raised the need to strengthen the proposal for a 'child guarantee' in the house, but we are also raising the same issue at spanish level. in the general state budgets which we presented to the cortes last monday, we are making a firm commitment to the fight against child poverty, by strengthening - and greatly - everything connected with the child guarantee - if we could call it or translate it that way - in the field of spanish policy. on climate change, there have been some speakers who have spoken about the degree of commitment of the spanish government in relation to this issue. we are going to approve in a very short time - i hope - in the cortes generales, presented by the spanish government, a law on climate change, a plan or a national strategy for ecological transition, where, if i may say so, one of the fundamental issues - at least for the spanish government - is that this transition should be fair, that is to say, that those mining basins, those areas of spain where there is a strong presence of thermal power stations can find opportunities and that, logically, they make it understandable to those affected, the main ones, the need to make this transition. and finally, reference has been made to a wide range of rights and freedoms which, unfortunately, during seven years of conservative government were put into effect by the previous administration. there was talk of the 'gag law', and there was also talk of everything to do with labour reform and the labour rights of workers in our country. and two questions. the first, in relation to the "law of gagging". it is currently being amended, and is being tabled in the congress of deputies, and i hope that it can be resolved and approved by the cortes generales in the session which will open from february onwards. and secondly, with regard to labour rights, i should like to tell you that the spanish government has promoted the social dialogue, which has approved in seven months - in just seven months - a youth employment plan to reduce the youth unemployment rate by ten points in three years and to mobilise eur 2 billion. we have also adopted a plan to combat labour exploitation, a plan to combat job insecurity, which has created more than 50 000 jobs, which were not 'say, in accordance with the legislation of our country' and are now open-ended contracts. and finally, i would also like to say to you, in this context, that you know that the selfemployed, that is to say the workers in our country, who number over three million, men and women, have, thanks to an agreement we have reached with the trade unions and employers, in just seven months, seen all the social guarantees linked to unemployment benefits and also to coverage for accidents at work, etc., etc., etc. strengthened. and we have done so, of course, with the help of the social partners and also with the employers. so, multilateralism, a clear social agenda on the part of the spanish government, not only at european level but also at national level, and i also wanted to make two additional reflections that have emerged in the course of the interventions. in relation to foreign policy and linked to venezuela, i want to tell you that the government of spain, but also i, as leader of the opposition before becoming president of the government, did not recognize the legitimacy of the venezuelan elections nor have we recognized the maduro regime at all. the proof is that we were not present at the inauguration. we have asked the maduro regime on systematic occasions, on recurrent occasions, to release political prisoners - yes, there are political prisoners. thanks to the good efforts of the foreign minister, we have also succeeded in enabling some political prisoners to travel to spain - the last one, a young man whom i had the opportunity to meet - and, without a doubt, the approach of the spanish government to the venezuelan question is to try to forge an alliance, a group to facilitate dialogue, both in european countries and in countries of the lima group. i would also like to make a point. france has not taken part in the decision taken by the lima group, and i can also assure you that the spanish government does not share that view. the spanish government is trying to build a facilitation group that, precisely, what it does is allow a dialogue to resolve, once and for all, the venezuelan crisis. i was surprised that when we talk about venezuela we do not talk about the migration crisis that is suffering in venezuela, because one of the main damaged are our asylum offices in spain, because there are many venezuelans who are seeking asylum in our country. but neither is the migration crisis which exists in the whole of the latin american continent and, in particular, in colombia, peru, brazil, chile, etc., in many countries with which i have had the opportunity to meet during these seven months as president of the government. i have to tell you that in the foreign affairs council the foreign minister - and also the spanish government as a whole - has advocated the release of economic resources to help these countries manage in a reasonable way the huge number of migration flows that are coming to these countries and, in particular, to colombia, which, of course, has our full support. i would just like to say to you, mr president, that the spanish government - and thanks to this government, in addition - has in just over seven months processed the renewal of the statute of the canary islands and signed in good time all the conventions that were pending. so it is not that we are creating opportunities in the outermost regions, it is not that we are creating the rights of the canary islands, but we are exercising them by signing, for example, a road agreement for 1.8 billion euros - nothing more and nothing less - to be managed by the canary islands government. and finally, i would like to make a reflection, a global reflection on some of the interventions most closely linked to the popular party and also to the question of catalonia. i have said so in the spanish parliament. i would also like to put this question to the members of the european people's parliament who are of my nationality, who are spanish. i want to tell you that right now the agenda of the right wing is being set by the far right. and it is being marked by the far right on two fundamental issues that are typical when the right is in opposition: the first, territorial encroachment and using catalonia, that is, coexistence and territorial cohesion, as an element and as a battering ram to oppose the government of spain. the government of spain the spanish socialist workers' party is and will always be loyal to the constitution. and we are in the opposition and we are in the government. and we would also like the people's party to do the same when it is in opposition. and secondly, if i have to look for some formulation of governance that gives stability, whether in regions or in countries, i like the swedish example better than the example we have just seen in andalusia. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i appreciate that you want a europe where we guarantee the rights of all citizens to work, where we protect the most vulnerable. you want a united europe, signalling that inequalities have increased in the eu. many of my fellow citizens work in spain and i would be happy to apply these principles to any european citizen living in spain. so, mr. prime minister, i ask you what you think of austria's decisions to discriminate against children, mothers based on nationality? i know, mr. prime minister, that you have measures to support young people up to 30 years old. but i have received messages from my fellow citizens living in spain, who tell me that for those over 30 there is no measure. you do not grant dual citizenship and this creates big problems for european citizens who are of another nationality. you are pro-european and you must, mr prime minister, improve access to the labour market in your country and give priority to the criterion of vocational training and not nationality, religion, gender. i hope that spain will work towards the non-discriminatory application of the treaty and the exclusion of double standards. i ask you, mr prime minister, to support romania and bulgaria's entry into the schengen area because they have been meeting the conditions since 2011.
in writing. almost all member states have experienced totalitarian regimes. but too few are focused on studying their crimes. but hope comes from civil society. since 1998, the civic academy foundation in romania has been organizing a summer school for students aged 15 to 18 years old at sighetul marmației, on the site of the former communist prison, to study crimes from the communist period. this year marks the 80th anniversary of the signing of the molotov-ribbentrop pact and the 30th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, 30 years since the liberation of europe from totalitarian terror. the programme in sighet is an example worthy of being followed throughout the union, so that the memory of those who died for our freedom will always remain alive.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, i agree with what you said. we need a guarantee of respect for citizens' rights in the european union. since you mentioned austria, i want to ask you point blank: how do you think austria discriminates against children and mothers who are not austrian citizens, but who work and contribute to austria's gdp?
mr. president, under the dictatorship in azerbaijan, journalists risk their lives and freedom to write and speak freely. azerbaijani journalist mehman huseynov was sentenced to two years in prison for defamation in march 2017 after publishing photos of luxury properties of officials. mehman is on hunger strike. he was joined by other political prisoners, prisoners of conscience. in december 2018, the azerbaijani police accused him of other facts we don't know if real or invented and started investigations against mehman, now being transferred to police custody, where he is today, still on hunger strike. that is why i am asking the high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, to react as strongly as she did with the first arrest. freedom and life are not negotiable and i demand the immediate release of mehman.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start this debate on late payments, which is an extremely important topic. late payment is really an issue which has a strong impact on our businesses. let me very briefly recall the history of the file, because it started in 1995 with the commission’s recommendation on payment periods in commercial transactions. it stated that payment delays were really a danger to the survival of our european businesses. in 2000, the first late payment directive concluded that the situation had not improved – on the contrary – so in 2011 the revised directive laid down stronger rules to combat late payments both by public authorities and businesses. in 2016, the commission’s report on the implementation of the directive noted a reduction in average late payment delays. so can we say that late payments are a problem of the past? of course not. let me remind you that, today, only one in four businesses in the eu pays within the period agreed in the contract. putting it another way, 60% of european businesses are regularly paid late, and this is really dangerous. over half of those businesses suffer payment delays of more than 90 days. for a small company, the probability of going bankrupt increases after six days of non-payment. and that is why late payments still account for 25% of insolvencies in the eu. and, of course, as everywhere in the economy, late payments are especially harmful to smaller companies – to smes – which rely on regular streams of liquidity to run their daily operations. is this all or partly the directive’s fault? i really do not think so. i fully share the rapporteur’s position that the directive remains the most appropriate instrument to combat late payment. under this commission, we have strictly enforced the directive so, on the one hand, we have opened an active dialogue with the member states – provided guidance, provided an exchange of best practices – but, on the other hand, we have not hesitated to take more formal and stringent steps. as for today, we have six ongoing infringement cases in the european union. i believe that it is still too soon for the revision of the directive. the point is that late payment is a very complex problem that cannot be solved through legislation alone. i rather think that any change to either hard or soft law should be preceded by a profound change in the business culture and this is what we should focus on. evidence shows that late payments are intentional. it is widely known that businesses practice late payments to suppliers. it is the cheapest and the cost-free form of borrowing, but is it really cost-free for all of us, for the economy in its real effects? of course not. payment delays cascade down from one supplier to the next. in most cases, late payments are also avoidable as in the case of delays in public contracts. let me focus a little bit more on this issue. lengthy administrative procedures result in extending the payment deadlines artificially and, again, this is especially damaging to smaller companies who are more dependent on contracts with public authorities. in fact i have to tell you that i find late payments by public authorities even more inexcusable than those by private businesses, because we should remember that these are the same public authorities who have very limited tolerance for late payments in the other direction, so from businesses to the tax authorities. again, this is very dangerous. the report describes the fear factor affecting smaller businesses – fear that prevents businesses from using the rights the directive has granted. fear forces businesses to accept unfair payment conditions from larger counterparts and this is the case for 70% of small and medium enterprises. so, abuse becomes habit, and habit becomes a culture. i firmly believe in the freedom of negotiations, but this freedom should not be abused to the disadvantage of the creditor. the report lays down a thorough roadmap for building a more responsible payment culture and also strikes the right balance between combating late payments and defending contractual freedoms. it also calls for more transparency of payment practices, stronger enforcement policies and more education on financial matters, again especially for smes. i am also pleased to see that the report takes into account several conclusions of the commission’s own implementation report from 2016. i believe that more can be achieved now by leading by example and it can be done much more effectively. the directive calls for a decisive shift towards a culture of prompt payment, and this should be, in my view, our ultimate aim. prompt payment speeds up the flow of money in the economy. it ultimately benefits everyone in society. so again, i want to applaud the report for the strong message in recognising and rewarding prompt payment practices. before concluding, i want to say one word on the very hard work of the rapporteur, ms comi, and of course the shadow rapporteurs. it was a huge effort in a short time. the result is a very thorough, very balanced and inspirational report, and i also want to thank president tajani and my predecessor for adopting and starting to implement the directive. i am looking forward to the debate and, of course, i want to call on you to accept the report.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. in fact, i wanted to intervene to ask why the romanian presidency of the council is not here. mrs comi spoke earlier to the member states. i also noticed that the romanian presidency was not present at the previous debate on the terricabras report, where the rule of law and fundamental rights were discussed. i think they have not understood that they have to take part in these debates on behalf of the council, and that is absolutely regrettable. i'd like to know what's going on.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to say that, as rapporteur for the political group, the whole debate on this report has been in a very fair atmosphere. political ambition and hubris were not taken into account here. thank you to mrs. lara comi, who led the negotiation very well. commissioner, you also mentioned that in fact the directive, which was a first step in 2011 and adopted in 2013, did not achieve the objective we hoped for , namely to reduce payment delays. as i am also co-chair of the sme intergroup, where this report was actually discussed, i want to say that everyone, regardless of the member state, raised the same issue: the sme problem. i'm in a deficit of business-to-business bargaining power and this is where we need to step in. also, in relation to the state - our rapporteur said that - i also say that there should be compensation, that smes should not not receive money from the authorities because, yes, i agree with the commissioner: we need to improve the entrepreneurial culture. the problem is what we do with the culture of government, central or local, that doesn't pay and creates a chain of nonpayers. cash flow, liquidity are affected and i am glad that we were able to negotiate and have in this report and that 'white list', which was mentioned earlier, that there is transparency. but we must have strong levers to prevent the collapse of many small and medium-sized enterprises. that's why i think the directive needs to be changed. (the registrar has agreed to answer a question referred under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. first of all, i want to say that mr rübig is very active in the sme intergroup and is a supporter of smes. yes, i agree! we must do so, and i hope, commissioner, that you will take account of the indirect proposal made by my colleague, mr rübig, because there are delays on the part of the european institutions and it is obvious that the member states then, in turn, delay payments to smes. i agree and hope that this proposal can be included in the commission's programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we need this regulation. the european budget must be spent efficiently, in all respects. if a member state does not respect one of the union's fundamental values, the rule of law, it must be possible to intervene to protect european money. the rapporteur's proposals remove some of the ambiguities in the commission's text, but there are still provisions which i believe need to be improved. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the proportionality of the sanction measures to the damage caused to the european budget by the deficiencies in the rule of law is not clearly established. there are no sufficient guarantees that project beneficiaries will receive their money in the event of a suspension of payments for the state concerned. the procedure for triggering the conditional mechanism shall overlap with the procedure laid down in article 7 of the treaty on european union. i hope that the negotiations with the council will succeed in removing all the ambiguities in order to draw up a regulation that will be applicable for the benefit of the citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have read this report with great attention, which reminds me of george orwell's book. the european union is becoming, every day, an orwellian farm, where some states are more equal than others. the report mentions the cooperation and verification mechanism several times, but as far as i know, only two countries in the european union have such a mechanism. i propose, commissioner, mr president, if you wish to vote on this report tomorrow, that we vote before that vote on all the member states of the european union having the cooperation and verification mechanism. implement it in your own home, because otherwise this report will not create equality between states. the principle of protecting the european union may be a good one, but the procedure worries me very much. who will be the watchdog of democracy in the european union? reading this report, i had the feeling that it conveys the fear that the european commission will be left with empty pockets. i will give you a simple example: amendment no 12, which says that the identification of generalised deficiencies is done by the commission, which is based on information received from all relevant sources. what do you mean, relevant sources? i'm a lawyer, and i know that in a situation like this, there has to be a very clear wording. relevant sources means media, means organizations, means colleagues in other benevolent countries? mr president, we must look very carefully at such a regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european union is extremely important for every citizen of the member states. this budget supports the economic and social development of the countries that are part of the european union. i come from a country where european funds have contributed to economic growth, job creation, healthcare or infrastructure modernisation. we all want european money to be used in the best possible way for the benefit of the people, and that is why we have institutions to monitor how european money is used. the european budget is protected by the european institutions and by the institutions of each member state. but introducing political sanctioning criteria for the allocation of european funds is a risky step. it is important to have clearly defined criteria in order to avoid a situation where a member state can fall victim to political games. the suspension of european funds should be well founded on objective, fair, just rules beyond any doubt or challenge. or this is not clear as a result of this proposed mechanism.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am representing my colleague, mr moscovici, who is in athens for official talks with the greek government. i would ask you, mrs scott cato, to greet mr giegold and to convey our thanks to him for his excellent work on this dossier. our national tax authorities and the european union continue to suffer from insufficient capacity and from insufficient cooperation. cooperation between member states is still possible. this applies within the european union and also to the relations of our tax authorities with third countries. this affects the efficiency and effectiveness of their work. therefore, answers to the questions of how to further curb tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and avoidance, and how to respond to digitalisation and new business models, remain important. at the same time, we must relieve our citizens and businesses of unnecessary administrative burdens. these factors constantly impose new challenges on the functioning and performance of national tax authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is what feeds the national budget and indirectly the european budget. we therefore propose to continue the successful fiscalis programme with the aim of supporting tax policy and tax authorities through operational cooperation measures. a substantial part of the support will be in the setting up and operation of it systems and the exchange of tax-related information between member states and with citizens and our businesses. by providing a framework for measures supporting the internal market, promoting the union's competitiveness and protecting the financial and economic interests of the union and its member states, the new fiscalis programme, which is also included in the post-2020 budgetary framework as proposed by the commission, aims to contribute to preventing and combating tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance and thus to strengthening tax justice. in addition, the programme has an important additional objective: to simplify and modernise the work of tax administrations. to this end, fiscalis provides practical tools that could lead to better service and less administrative burden for taxpayers, citizens and businesses. how does fiscalis intend to achieve this? i will mention four essential components of the programme. firstly, further strengthening cooperation between tax administrations through the exchange of best practices and best practices. secondly, a focus on innovation and responses to new challenges and the exploitation of opportunities that can arise from new technologies such as blockchain. thirdly, optimal coordination and overview of all it developments, systems, networks and platforms financed under the programme and last but not least investments in the tax authorities themselves, in the staff: training, seminars, conferences, training materials. these measures are of particular importance and are intended to provide tax administration staff with good information about and preparation for eu tax policy measures. fiscalis is not new. the existing programme has already made important improvements in the past and in the present, and has brought added value which is also highly appreciated and recognised by the tax authorities and the finance ministers in the member states. joint audits, project groups, teams of experts - all of this is part of it and is also financed by it. we propose a total of eur 270 million over the next seven years of the budgetary framework to use this money and this instrument to further strengthen the fight against tax fraud and evasion. overall, we believe that a modernised fiscalis programme is in the european interest and in the interest of the member states. we are pleased that, through the thorough work of mr giegold in both parliament and the council, progress has been made on this dossier in the econ committee. thank you for this breakthrough. we look forward to a continued constructive discussion. and if the honourable member asked at the beginning why we do not use article 116 - in what the commission decided yesterday as a proposal for the principle of majority voting in tax matters - in some tax matters, the answer is: we are guided by the objective or by the consideration: what course, what procedure could be supported by a majority in the council? and after careful consideration by my colleague mr moscovici, he concludes that article 116 would be less promising in the council than the commission's approach. i am sure that my colleagues dombrovskis and moscovici are prepared to hold direct talks with mr giegold and other members of this house over the next few weeks on the way forward.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i will vote tomorrow for this programme, fiscalis, because it is the only european programme that addresses directly the tax authorities of the member states. it's the program that builds, helps, funds the infrastructure necessary for the mutual exchange of information between tax authorities about income, taxes. it is also the programme that succeeds in bringing together experts from tax authorities and other experts to promote best practices and methods. i particularly appreciate that this fiscal programme is open to the participation of experts from the candidate countries as well as from other countries. it is absolutely necessary, if we really want to fight against tax evasion, tax fraud, to ensure that experts from these countries also have access to the programme. under the current mandate, the fiscalis programme is being successfully implemented. there were no major problems. i'll back him up.
the next item is the summary of the report by pascal durand on differentiated integration (2018/2093 ((ini)) (a8-0402/2018).
this item on the agenda has been closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the summary of the report by jo leinen and yana toom on the ombudsman's strategic inquiry oi/2/2017 on the transparency of legislative debates taking place in the preparatory groups of the eu council (2018/2096(ini)) (a8-0420/2018).
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you that we know too little and, above all, too much. or rather, too little. in the member states, citizens are not properly informed about what is happening here, and very often the blame falls on the european union, not on national administrations or national parliaments. how do you think we could better inform the citizens of our countries about responsibility at european, national and local level? because there is, i think, confusion here, and i think, a lot of times, it's done intentionally. there is a confusion about subsidiarity and i think there are mistakes on the part of the european institutions in this respect.
this item on the agenda has been closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on azerbaijan, in particular the case of mehman huseynov (2019/2511 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as the parliament's rapporteur for azerbaijan, i would like to make the following clarifications: it is true that we are in the presence of the third resolution which points to human rights abuses, but, as mr karim said, relations between the european union and azerbaijan have developed in a positive way. we are preparing to conclude this partnership agreement and i think it is a good opportunity to have a very serious discussion about the effect of the european parliament's actions on third countries. when we all worked in good faith, in trying to have constructive dialogues with the authorities, we had and we achieved the success of releasing a man, please remember, a prominent political prisoner - i'm referring to mr mammadov - as a result of our efforts, but done in a non-conflictful manner, in a decent manner. in the same year, last year, through the same european parliament's efforts, carried out in diplomacy and in coherent dialogue, we succeeded and released 146 people. i think it's very important that this kind of action continues. mr huseynov: i saw very clearly how these allegations started and i saw the move of radio free europe. at the same time, i received from baku - because i confess to you that i asked for explanations about this incident - an official statement from the control department of the prison administration, in which i was told that in an ambush, one of the inspectors was assaulted and all the people involved in this ambush were sanctioned. i also saw that his lordship has come out of his hunger strike, which contradicts a number of statements. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that when we draft a resolution on human rights in a third country outside the european union, we must first of all document ourselves very clearly, listen to all parties, because that is what democratic spirit means, and not privilege one source of information, because there is a risk, in a world where disinformation and false news are the rule, that this rule will apply to us too and we risk diplomatic approaches that can have serious consequences. (the registrar has agreed to answer a question referred under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, ana. i totally agree with you. i don't know what the spanish politician's situation is. this is the first i've heard of it. i hope that this will be clarified and that we are not just dealing with allegations of the behaviour of certain politicians, but it is clear: this is unacceptable and we must look at it objectively. but at the same time, please understand my constructive approach. i think it is good that these people are free, that they are not still in prison and subject to abuse, because in this way we, as the european parliament, prove that we have done something concrete for the citizens.
mr president, along with endemic corruption, human rights abuses constitute a sad reality in azerbaijan. according to amnesty international, there are currently more than 100 political prisoners in the southern caucasus country, where the regime also holds a tight grip over the media. according to the brother of the imprisoned blogger and human rights activist on hunger strike, ‘all well—known human rights defenders and journalists spend at least one or two years in prison’. this practice is compounded by a common trend whereby azeri authorities press new charges against political prisoners whose prison sentences are ending. we know that this is the fifth such case in recent months alone. azerbaijan has long tried to shield itself from western criticism by using its strategic position as a regional ally in the war against terrorism as well as an important country for europe in its quest to reduce its dependency on russian gas. but it is also known that it uses lavish gifts and foreign trips for western officials in an attempt to tone down criticism against the regime. the eu should give a clear signal that it takes the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in azerbaijan seriously and should place these issues at the heart of the new eu—azerbaijan agreement. at present, it is vital that we ask for mr huseynov to be immediately and unconditionally released and that azerbaijani authorities drop all new charges against him. we must also clearly call for the immediate and unconditional release from jail of all political prisoners, journalists, human rights defenders and other civil society activists.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say from the outset that the motion was necessary. it is a warning to the azerbaijani state about deviations from the principles of human rights and others. i would also like to stress the importance of maintaining dialogue with azerbaijan, not only in the areas of human rights violations, but also in areas such as counter-terrorism, regional stability, combating manipulation. the motion, in fact, seeks to draw attention to the concrete cases of deviations from the democratic principles to which azerbaijan has committed itself as a member of the council of europe. i could see that there are concerns from oecd representatives, from media representatives. we have to say that azerbaijan, as a member of the euronest parliamentary assembly, has obligations. i am a member of the euronest assembly and i know what is required of all the eastern partnership countries. the new presidency of the european council aims to develop the eastern partnership, but for this to happen, all the countries that are part of this partnership must understand the importance of taking up the demands of today's motion. it is a balanced motion, it is provided for in the text of the resolution and the good things that have happened: the release in recent years of several personalities, human rights defenders, journalists, activists. i strongly believe that azerbaijan's path must be european, but for this, of course, the representatives of the state - and i emphasize, the representatives of the state, because it is not the citizens of azerbaijan who are to blame - must cooperate and comply with the obligations of the european convention on human rights. last year there was a meeting, the baku parliamentary cooperation commission, and these issues were discussed. i believe that the eu-azerbaijan agreement begun in 1996 must continue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on sudan (2019/2512(rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, since december last year, peaceful demonstrations have taken place in the streets of several cities in sudan, spreading throughout the country, including the capital khartoum, with citizens legitimately protesting against rising prices, food shortages and fuel shortages. national security forces intervened, using excessive force, to disperse the unarmed protesters. the right to freedom of peaceful assembly is an essential element of democracy. the government of sudan has a duty to respond with solutions to the legitimate grievances of the sudanese people and not to resort to violence, which has resulted in the killing of 40 people, including children. the arbitrary arrests of an unknown number of protesters, including students and political activists, are actions that must stop. the sudanese authorities must release those detained, conduct impartial investigations, and bring the perpetrators to justice, and ensure that the national security forces respond to protests in accordance with the country's international human rights obligations. the lack of access to lawyers and family members of detainees, as well as the use of torture and other forms of ill-treatment against detainees, raise serious concerns about their safety. we call on the government of sudan to end all forms of harassment, violence, including at the administrative and judicial level, against all lawyers and human rights defenders and to guarantee the right to a fair trial.
mr president, last but not least, even though some progress has been made in legislative and institutional reforms, considering the recent events which employed massive and deadly use of force, the overall democratic transformation of sudan is very precarious, continuing to deny fundamental rights and freedom. i share the opinion that the eu and the member states need to play a greater role in the region and to investigate these violations of human rights and humanitarian law. moreover, every effort should be made to improve access by international humanitarian agencies to provide humanitarian aid to those in need. the eu should also intensify its efforts to promote freedom of expression through its external policies and instruments and to further strengthen financial support to human rights defenders and civil society organisations in sudan, mainly under the european development fund. we should even have to take into account cutting funds to sudan when necessary if these funds are used in an appropriate manner. last but not least, complete transparency needs to be ensured concerning the projects in the security field with sudan, including all planned activities and beneficiaries of eu and eu member state funding.
madam president, the level and protection of investment at present do not cover the structural investment needs of the union and do not support long-term growth. the commission will continue to support the investeu fund, as it is its objective: funding and investment that contribute to the development of research, innovation and digitalisation. of course that leads to jobs and growth and achieving the goals of the paris agreement on climate change. it is very important that we invest in science, technology, culture, education and training. a major beneficiary of these funds can and should be romania, which has a strong human resource in all these areas.
madam president, i supported this proposal, i consider it the right decision to close down a dangerous soviet-type nuclear power plant, it is in the interest not only of lithuanians but also of the citizens of the european union. as a child, i lived in czechoslovakia when the chernobyl nuclear reactor exploded, and the consequences were felt on our territory. so to challenge this decision is, in my view, pointless and it is right that the european union is contributing financially to the removal of this plant, and i am glad that we voted to maintain the original ratio of money that the european union is sending to lithuania precisely to dismantle this dangerous nuclear plant. this is clearly a positive contribution by the european union, which for obvious security reasons agreed to remove this facility when lithuania joined the european union, it is in the interest of europeans, lithuanians and i am glad that this proposal was approved.
madam president, the regulation protects european money, and the risk of european money being stolen is higher in states that do not respect the rule of law, where the independence of the judiciary is at risk, where decisions are arbitrary or illegal including those taken by public authorities and are not corrected and not sanctioned, and where people's rights and freedoms are restricted, such as freedom of the press. we recognize in these cases many of the decisions taken, unfortunately, in romania, by the psd-alde government. now, in these countries where the rule of law is not respected, of course european money is in danger and as such, the regulation provides that it can be suspended, frozen, reduced. in this case, the state concerned will have to make payments but from its own budget, and will not receive funding until it has remedied the difficulties.
madam president, i have been hesitant for a long time whether to support this report or abstain. i got held up. on the one hand, i very much welcome the european union's desire to defend more european values, including the rule of law. this is a big deal. but this particular proposal does not seem to me to be entirely happy and there are some controversial points, as the legal service of the european council has pointed out here, and i feel that despite some efforts to find a compromise, the question of the legal basis of this proposal still remains. so i will continue to monitor the debate on this proposal, but we must be sure that we are adopting a proposal which is really based on the legal basis of primary european law and not on some extension which can be seen as an extension beyond the treaty establishing the european union.
madam president, tax arrangements that are technically not breaking the law have generated losses to the union budget and national budgets of eur 200 billion in 2015 alone. fraud, tax evasion, money laundering are cross-border crimes, which is why fiscalis 2020 allows national authorities in the field to exchange information and expertise, precisely to bring about the capture of those who have committed these crimes and the recovery of the money. recovering the money is the most important thing, because otherwise, the source of crime continues. the fight against tax evasion, fraud, money laundering must remain a priority. failure to do so leads to sanctions, as discussed in the sarvamaa report earlier. sanctions are imposed because the rule of law is not respected and the politicians in power in that state are sanctioned because they act against the interests of the people.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. this debate today is further evidence of the double standard which has unfortunately become a practice in this house in relation to certain member states. rendre formulates criticisms of hungary along the lines of issues that are part of practices that exist in several member states, such as excess regulation or administrative litigation. and they're clearly trying to influence public opinion with misinformation, exaggeration and, in many cases, fake news. you cannot think that the european union benefits and that it helps cohesion between member states if we deal with such political debates that are not about the real problems of citizens. why don't they deal with the fact that in romania, at the university in marosvásárhely, students are constantly being cheated, they are not allowed to take exams, and the hungarian branch is not being established. the credibility of the european parliament is damaged in the eyes of the citizens when a question is treated with such disregard for professional considerations and with a view to purely political and electoral objectives. especially when it's the same country over and over again. he's not fit to be in parliament.
in writing. – i express deep concerns about the unprecedented social, economic and democratic crisis which venezuelan citizens are currently facing, and i strongly condemn the disproportionate and extraordinarily violent response of the maduro government towards social protesters and opposition activists. as the legitimacy of the may 2018 presidential elections was not recognised by many international democracies, including the european union, i find it feasible to support new elections in the region as soon as possible and ensure that the electoral process will be held in line with international standards, the rule of law, democracy, political pluralism and transparency. in this context, it is of paramount importance that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, madame federica mogherini, hasten the collaboration with all relevant actors in order to establish the international contact group stated in the council conclusions of 15 october 2018. i stress that, once created, this group should under no circumstances provide direct mediation between the venezuelan parties but ensure the conditions for a legitimate electoral process and enable venezuelan citizens to choose their own future and stabilise their country.
mr president, there is something terrible in xi jinping's speech because it is basically a communist regime that wants to intimidate its democratic neighbours by invoking the use of force. it is clear that the beijing authorities misinterpreted the results of the taiwanese local elections held last november, because at no point during the election campaign was the issue of reunification with china raised. let's be clear: taiwanese people did not send a message to xi jinping, they spoke out on local issues and an overwhelming majority of them are fiercely opposed to the idea of one country and two systems. what taiwanese people want above all is to protect their democracy, rule of law, and freedom. that is to say, all these things remain unknown to the communist regime, which on the contrary is famous for the arrests of human rights defenders, religious persecution, violations of freedom of expression and all this, of course, under the guise of national security and a so-called fight against separatism. in view of the growing tensions in the taiwan strait, i propose that a delegation from the european parliament should visit taiwan as soon as possible in order to take stock of the situation and to support taiwanese democracy.
mr president, to understand xi jinping’s new year message to compatriots in taiwan on 2 january, one has to look both at context and content to understand that these words mean to lay down a new taiwan policy implying a new era in china-taiwan relations. as regards the staging, in a clear departure from the 2009 speech by president hu jintao, the head of the taiwan affairs office was conspicuously absent from the stage. in terms of content, xi jinping effectively removed the ambiguity of the ‘one china’ principle of the 1992 consensus, using the ‘one country, two system’ governance term, the same one that he used for china’s governance of hong kong. however, we should bear in mind that taiwan’s president chi had never accepted the terms of the 1992 consensus. china must face the reality of the existence of the republic of taiwan. china must respect the choice of taiwan’s 23 million inhabitants to live in freedom and in a democratic system. china must handle cross-strait disputes peacefully and on the basis of equality. china must hold government-to-government talks with … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the top-level domain (tld) is the name of the internet service provider . eu is the domain name of the european union and its citizens and was introduced by regulation (ec) no 733/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 april 2002 implementing the .eu 1 level domain. the evaluation of the implementation and functioning of the domain name of the european union and its citizens has revealed that .eu is a well-established tld that continues to function well, but is regulated by an established and rigid legal framework. the commission notes that the .eu domain is not a domain name, but a registered trademark of the european union. we agree that the new regulation will make it easier for eu citizens to register a domain name . and i will update the regulatory framework based on principles and adapted to the requirements of the future to keep it attractive to businesses and citizens, while strengthening the eu's digital identity. the commission should be able to use the .eu tld to provide services to citizens of the union. the proposal will also encourage innovation in the .eu ecosystem, both at the level of the registry and in the downstream markets of registrars and registrants.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the report is welcome. competition policy is very important for the internal market, we all want a well-regulated internal market, but not only well-regulated but also with fair competition and - as another colleague here said - we are talking about competition in the internal market but also competition outside the internal market, because - we know very well - we have giants, very large companies, who have outsourced their business in the internal market to third countries and they come and do unfair competition. and we also talked about the power of big companies that can ultimately influence public policy. i mean, we have competition -- and i've been saying this since i've been here -- an unequal competition between smes and large companies, between trusts. there is still not enough supervision, although we have antitrust regulations, there is unfair competition and we have recently had very relevant cases in this respect and i hope, commissioner, that we will find new solutions.
the reporter. madam president, the euro fraud amounted to almost eur 3 billion in 2017 and the euro vat carousel costs us eur 50 billion annually. the illicit trade in cigarettes continues to cause damage to the european budget and the member states. olaf estimates that the illicit trade in cigarettes causes annual financial losses of over eur 10 billion to the union and member states' budgets. overall, almost 21% fewer irregularities were reported to the commission in 2017 than in 2016, around 15 000 fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities. as rapporteur, i want to focus on prevention, because it is good to find irregularities, it is good to detect fraud, it is good to recover money, but i think the best thing for the european budget would be to prevent and spend money efficiently. i proposed that all stages of the development of a european project be digitised, all stages of the tender evaluation and selection process, as well as of implementation, be carried out electronically and transparently. given that over two trillion euros are spent on public procurement every year, i recommend the use of electronic procurement to combat fraud. the worrying fact is that we are having a very difficult time recovering fraudulent funds - only 37% of european funds fraudulently recovered between 1989 and 2017. i invite the commission to continue its efforts to standardise the nomenclature of expenditure errors.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about fraud. i don't want to repeat what was said here. i want to highlight a few things that were not touched on in the report. the fraud is not only from european funds and olaf cannot solve everything. we need to act systematically here, commissioner, and i raise the problem that the customs union is still being delayed, the computerization and the systematic operation of the customs union are still being delayed. we have a lot of counterfeit goods, a lot of dumped goods, that are entering the domestic market, and it's obviously fraud. we're talking about fraud that, look, happened the most -- experts say, right? -- in 11 countries. for years, nothing has been solved, we don't know the outcome. 55 billion! we are talking about fraud in germany, for example, about cars being sold in eastern europe without being shown, and we are talking about very large sums, about 50,000 vehicles. there must be new measures and, of course, prevention, as the rapporteur said, but, commissioner, i think that much more needs to be done and that olaf's tasks should not overlap with those of the epo and other institutions.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to address some key issues, but i would also like to thank you for the expertise you have shown and the commitment you have shown here together with the commission. this is very supportive and strengthening. the case of illegal tobacco imports, cigarettes, reaching europe was mentioned, and the port of marseille was mentioned. in fact, it must be clear that corruption, fraud, dishonesty and illegal trade are not the subject of some member states. it is a matter for the whole european union. in some member states it is more, in others it is less, but no member state, no region is free of it. there is no east-west gap, no south-north gap, and olaf is using its officials and its expertise to investigate this french case, this suspicion that a ship from the maghreb is arriving in europe via marseille every day. we'll keep you informed of the progress. secondly, the so-called vat fraud: the text of the current olaf regulation is not entirely clear on this point. are vat revenues considered as own resources? are they and their control within the same olaf area of competence, or are they not? some member states dispute this. even the country where i was at home denies this. the amendment to the olaf regulation is therefore intended to clarify this very point and thus remove any legal uncertainty. the lower limit of eur 10 million should also be abolished. we want olaf to have or to receive a full mandate to investigate misuse and fraud of the important vat revenue, whatever the legal situation may have been, so that it is not in dispute in the future. several colleagues have raised the question of why the commission no longer submits an anti-corruption report: this is true. we're not submitting it as our own report anymore. why would you do that? we are committed to fighting corruption. it is a feature of our assessment of policies and conditions in the member states. this is why we have included this anti-corruption report in a separate chapter of the european semester. the european semester is our main book to define the position of the member states, strengths and weaknesses, criticism. there you will find our assessment on the subject of freedom from corruption, the fight against corruption in the member states, and we can also go beyond our country specific recommendations, sanctions are also legally possible on the basis. it has been said that in many, many member states there is no written strategy to combat fraud. unfortunately, there is no legal obligation for member states to present an anti-fraud strategy. some do this, others do not. we encourage all the member states. we're pushing them, but without a legal instrument. we'll give them advice too. we are sure that more and more member states, also in their own interest, will put forward an anti-fraud strategy for their work and as a model in europe for european work. best practice is added as a supplementary motivation. a final statement lamented that only 22 member states are involved in the european public prosecutor's office, which my colleague, mrs jourová, who has returned for the next item, and i myself are responsible for drafting and now for implementing. in fact, there are six or soon five missing but when we presented our draft law on the eppo to parliament and the council, the enthusiasm was much lower: we started with 14, 15 member states, and the fact that the path from 14, 15 has led to 22 before the eppo started work and the eppo will not start work until next year actually gives me a little bit of confidence. 22 out of 28 or 27 is very, very much. we will do everything in the coming months and years to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is ultimately responsible for all countries and for all criminal proceedings in cases of corruption, dishonesty and fraud against the european budget. in this respect, it is an important step, a good start, but not the result. but i think we're going to get from 22 to the target you're looking for in the next few years. thank you very much for your comments and your opinions. i would like to thank mr marinescu for his comprehensive report. we are happy to continue to cooperate on all matters relating to the prevention of disadvantages for the european budget and the reduction of damage.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your words of appreciation and thank you on behalf of my colleagues who have contributed, the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this report. it is clear that fraud detection and recovery of money laundering are both extremely important and need to be strengthened and continued even if fraud falls to 0.1% of the budget. for this - just as olaf said - the european prosecutor must be given very clear responsibilities and tasks, collaborate, have a divergent activity and olaf must also be given the necessary levers to be able to act in this regard. i think that when the standard of living in a community goes up, the number of fraud and corruption goes down. the european budget is an investment budget, investment brings economic growth and it is very important that this budget is spent properly but that it brings a lot of results. so i think it's very important, at the same time, to spend money and to spend it in the right direction. i think we should find some levers, so that at the commission level the member states are simply required to use everything that is digital, electronic, so that the contact between those who check and those who decide what happens to european funds and those who benefit from funds, who submit bids, is as small as possible and, at the same time, the control is very simple, very easy to do and the evaluation is just as well done. so i think that we should go a long way in this direction, even though the public procurement laws in the member states are different. a common path must be found so that this activity can be carried out as efficiently, profitably and transparently as possible.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, commissioner, colleague, i understand your revolt because, as it is, we must move forward, we must do something concrete. my question is - and i link this to what the presidency has presented, that we need to focus on education, and not only education for the roma, but education for the other part of the population, because i believe that an educated population would not stigmatize another citizen, another neighbor next to him. do you not think that we should invest more in education, and the commission should think about this kind of education? because i have concrete cases where, in fact, the misunderstanding is from lack of education.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. equality between citizens is one of the union's fundamental values, which means that every person living in the union has equal rights and opportunities. however, today we are faced with a situation where the poverty rate in europe is showing worrying trends. this is particularly relevant for roma, whose integration should be a key task for the member states and the eu. in most member states, roma continue to suffer from general discrimination, deprivation of basic social services and extremely high rates of illiteracy. these trends further reinforce their social exclusion. this situation is also increasingly true for the current candidate countries. the union must realise as soon as possible that what is needed is not new studies and conferences but tangible and continuously monitored active action. develop credible, comprehensive and adequately funded long-term strategies for the reception and integration of roma, better control of crisis-related aid and continuous dialogue. these are just the first steps in a process that will hopefully lead to the lifting of roma citizens in europe from their current situation.
mr president, roma integration is a very complex process and we need to support it as one of the priorities at eu level. we need a genuine political will and a strategy in the medium and long term. we need to fight against discrimination and stereotypes, not only in central and eastern europe, but in all eu countries. education is very important as investment and access to proper education today will bring a lot of benefits tomorrow to roma communities. in many cases, roma communities are poor ones, with little access to quality healthcare policies, so we need health policies targeted to these vulnerable groups. we are now the debating the next multiannual financial framework and we need to make sure that eu funds will offer opportunities in financing projects in the area of roma integration.
mr president, i think we all agree, all of us here in the debate, that there was a need for an improvement in the regulation. and, behold, this debate has been offered, and i see that the very colleagues who asked for it are not here in the chamber. if they were interested, they should have been at the debate. i hope that through this regulation we will improve not only the form, the writing, but also the application of the regulation, so that we will no longer meet when a committee chairman decides without consulting the group, or a committee coordinator decides to send a letter to the president of parliament without consulting the group, as has happened now, just these days, with the mobility package. i think that the responsible actors in parliament should follow this up, and yes, i want transparency! why do we have to vote in secret? the people need to see, they need to know, we need to take our vote and i strongly believe that there should be no more incidents in parliament. we have to set an example for those we represent and i don't agree with a language like we've heard so far here, because i don't think a man who represents the citizens should have indecent behaviour with his colleagues in parliament.
mr president, ordinance 114/2018 on the imposition of taxes in the financial, telecom and energy sectors is a terrible blow to the romanian business environment, but also to romania's credibility at european level. in the financial-banking sector, the tax that was arbitrarily linked to the robor level will lead to credit constraint, with a strong negative impact on consumption, production and investment. in the energy sector - and i have also questioned the european commission - measures such as capping the price of natural gas, setting electricity prices administered by the national energy regulatory agency and charging 2% of the turnover of energy companies are in clear contradiction with european legislation. ironically and painfully, although public discourse was directed against multinational companies, the most affected were romanian banks and companies, some of them with the romanian state itself as the majority shareholder. the increase of up to 20 times the energy turnover tax will certainly be reflected both in the energy bills and on the energy security, as the taxes imposed on banks and telecom companies will be found in higher costs, which will be paid mainly by the poorest of romanian citizens.
mr president, i would like to draw attention in my speech to the intention of the psd-alde government, led by viorica dancila, to cut the income tax paid to local communities from the budget. he wants to steal the money paid by romanians, in the form of income tax, from their honest work. instead of these sums reaching local communities, they are to be directed to bucharest, where they are to be distributed at the pleasure of the government. this practice primarily punishes liberal administrations, which are the best performers in romania, wanting to make them dependent on the government, which seriously violates local autonomy. local governments are thus doomed to underdevelopment, as they will have to forgo important investments, including from european funds, seriously affecting the safety of citizens and their daily lives. madam president, i ask you once again, on behalf of the european parliament, to take your hands off this money! it's not the mayors' money, it's the citizens' money and it should only be used for the development of local communities.
mr president, commissioner, i will raise a case of which you are aware. in 2017, i wrote you a letter. it's about finland and it's about how the laws work there. as i am sure you are aware, there are laws in finland that give a child the right to appear in court. the case of dr. camelia simical is already well known in the world, not only in europe. for three years, he's been trying to get his kids back. the children have been institutionalized, although finnish law says that children are taken from the family only if there is a danger of violence against the children. then children are entitled, at 12 years old, to court and are not allowed to go to court. the woman wants to repatriate, not to a third world country, to romania, back, with her children. is there nothing we can do? what europe are we talking about? what rights of the child and what right of the citizen to free movement? please, commissioner, try to ask finland how it respects the rule of law and the laws of justice, because i see that resolutions on the eastern countries are being made, on the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. on several occasions, european institutions have been informed of the unprecedented situation that one of the so-called multicultural higher education institutions in romania, the university of medicine and pharmacy in marosvásárhely, has simply not complied with the current education law since 2011, citing the university's autonomy. according to the law, they should have created a separate hungarian-language department, but this is constantly rejected by the romanian-majority senate of the university. a few weeks ago, an english-language branch was established. however, the same decision is no longer considered acceptable in relation to the hungarian language faculty. this is a serious discrimination and a disregard for the rule of law. the situation has gotten much worse in the last few days, because just before the exam season, the exam conditions were changed to the detriment of hungarian students, regardless of the opposition of hungarian teachers. this decision shows the direct consequences of ignoring the law and the value of regulations that are not enforced. romania has many such minority rights provisions that exist only on paper, while the country claims to be a front-runner in the fight for minority rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, romania's assumption of the presidency of the council of the european union is one of the most important moments of the present. as you saw last week in the committees, in the dialogues with the ministers of the romanian government, the executive in bucharest is treating this task with seriousness and professionalism, which we are ready to carry out successfully. through the ambitious agenda that the romanian government has set for this mandate, but also through the important files that it will have to mediate, we will demonstrate that romania is one of the most important members of the union, unequivocally engaged in european construction. twelve years after accession, romania will write a beautiful piece of history in the process of political unification of the old continent.
mr president, honourable members of the council, commissioner, a subject which has been debated, as my colleagues said, for seven years. i want to say this to you, especially to the men who have raised the issue of inequality here and to the men back home who feel complex: anthropologically, women are designed to be good! well in business and at home, women always have two jobs, at least two jobs. and as a woman who has been on the board of directors of both state-owned companies and my own companies, i say very clearly: women can do this job. there are no professions for men and no professions for women, and i hope, madam minister, madam commissioner, that we will eliminate this upside-down democracy, this minority in the council which has blocked for so many years a very good thing. i am not happy that we have to have a quota, but if society has not understood the value of women in society, i think we have to intervene, because yes, i agree, commissioner, the directive on the balance between private and family life, and what you said, that there are relevant studies, must be put into practice. we'll all have to gain, the whole society!
mr president, first of all, as a romanian mep, i welcome the fact that the women on boards directive proposal is one of the priorities of the romanian presidency in advancing gender equality. with some member states changing their position recently, i am confident and i count on the council to push forward the negotiation. the reasons for the under-representation of women in business leadership are complex and include prevalent political and corporate cultures and traditional gender stereotypes. the glass ceiling in the business culture not only devalues the contribution of female leadership but also discourages other women from fully developing their potential in professional careers. from my own experience i can tell you that women taking the leadership in the company makes for added value and enterprise growth, prioritising women’s needs in shaping the enterprise culture. therefore, i express my support for the romanian presidency continuing the discussion on this directive.
in writing. unfortunately, we have been talking for years about legislation at european level to ensure gender balance in company management, but things are not moving. in 2012, the commission published a proposal for a directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies, commonly known as the women on boards directive. the proposal would have to achieve at least 40% of the non-executive members of the underrepresented sex on company boards by 2020 in the private sector and by 2018 in the public sector (the so-called 'procedural contingent'). despite pressure from the commission and the council, the situation is not improving at all. it is necessary that, before the end of this mandate, the romanian presidency takes all the necessary measures to reach an agreement between the member states and to adopt the directive.
in writing. gender equality is a fundamental value of the european union, so women must have the same opportunities as men to occupy leadership positions, both in the economic and financial sectors and in the transport sector. the economic and entrepreneurial added value that women actively bring to high-level positions is well known. the commission's 2012 proposal for a directive on the participation of women on boards of directors sought to mitigate inequalities by requiring a minimum representation of 40% of women on company boards. although parliament has adopted and supported the commission's initiative since 2013, the directive is still blocked in the council. the introduction of legislation on the representation of at least 40% of women on boards of directors has proved successful only in some states. statistically, women still represent only a quarter of the total number of members of boards, with large discrepancies between member states, where the presence of women on boards varies between 7% and 43%. this clearly shows that we need a european directive to balance the share of women in executive positions in all areas of activity.
mr prime minister, i am delighted to be here today in this capacity, you as prime minister of finland, i as mep of the country holding the presidency of the council of the european union. i say this because your statement that you are ready to take over the presidency of the council of the european union directly from bulgaria has caused a great political, but above all media, scandal. i am sure that you have been misled by president johannis' statements, but, mr prime minister, at your level you should know that the government has responsibilities in the exercise of the presidency of the council of the european union in romania. so the only political actor whose statements you should be paying attention to is the prime minister of romania. i am sure that now, a few months after that inappropriate statement, you have changed your mind, especially since in just one month since romania took over the presidency of the council of the european union, it has already closed several important files. my message to you is one of continuity. i hope that you will continue and i express my confidence that you will continue the projects started by romania during its presidency of the council of the european union.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, i agree with a lot of the things that you've said here. you have spoken of cohesion, of the single market, of the rule of law, and here i want to refer, mr prime minister, to some concrete things in your country. you said you don't have to do anything to discount the rule of law and i agree. but do you know that in your country there are laws that don't apply? are you aware that there are families whose children have been taken away, children as young as 12 years old who, according to finnish law, have the right to appear in court, to choose the mother and are not heard in court? they are taken and they are atrocities in institutions that institutionalize children, mr. prime minister. i wrote you a letter, no action was taken. how can we have a rule of law when citizens, who are europeans, this is a citizen of my country, do not have the same rights as citizens in finland? and please answer me on time! and, of course, i wish there was no such conditionality in the cfm, as you claim, because, look, the rule of law is defined differently and distinctly in each country.
mr. chairman, our political group has asked to discuss titiev's situation and we would like to stay on this matter. we are facing a very serious case; it is at the end of a trial in which he was accused, as in totalitarian regimes, of drug possession, simply because he remains in office - i remind you that he represents an institution that we awarded the sakharov memorial prize for and i don't see why we couldn't talk about this case and only about this case. i don't understand why the other groups want to flood titiev's case with entirely different issues. so i suggest we stick to that.
the next item is the debate on the report by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the eu anti—fraud programme (com(2018)0386 – c8—0236/2018 – 2018/0211(cod)) (a8-0064/2019).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, any programme to combat crime, such as the european programme to combat fraud, must focus not only on the enforcement side but also on the prevention side. i am a lawyer and i know that coercive measures, post-commitment sanctions, are not very effective in preventing crime and are implemented at a much higher cost than prevention itself. in my view, an anti-fraud programme must start with concrete prevention measures, including measures to inform european citizens about the different situations in which they may fall under the law. we still have a lot to do on the preventive side both in the fight against fraud at european level and in combating other crimes that affect the eu budget year after year. i therefore welcome the amendments on the proposals which stress the need for prevention in the fight against fraud, but also the amendments on the increase in the budget for this programme.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 12 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for fish stocks in the western waters and adjacent waters and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending regulation (eu) 2016/1139 establishing a multiannual plan for the baltic sea and repealing regulations (ec) no 811/2004, (ec) no 2166/2005, (ec) no 388/2006, (ec) no 509/2007 and (ec) no 1300/2008 (com (2018) 0149 c8-0126/2018 2018/0074 (cod)) (a8-0310/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 12 february 2019.
the next item is the joint debate on:- recommendation from the committee on fisheries on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol implementing the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire (2018-2024) (10858/2018 c8-0387/2018 2018/0267 ((nle)) (rapporteur: joão ferreira) (a8-0030/2019) and the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol implementing the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire (2018-2024) (10858/2018 c8-0387/2018 2018/0267 ((nle)) (a3400/2019).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 12 february 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the implementation of the treaty provisions, and here we are discussing four reports:- report by maite pagazaurtundúa ruiz, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the implementation of the treaty provisions on eu citizenship (2018/2111 (ini)) (a8-0041/2019); - the report of mr alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the implementation of the provisions of the treaty on enhanced cooperation (2018/2112(ini)) (a8-0038/2019); - the report of mrs mercedes bresso, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the implementation of the treaty provisions on parliament's power of political control over the commission (2018/2113 (ini)) (a8-0033/2019); - the report of ms barbara spinelli, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in the eu institutional framework (2017/2089 (ini)) (a8-0051/2019).
two, i believe, in the end, but if you want to use it now, it’s up to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner timmermans, in my view parliament must have and exercise powerful instruments of control over the european commission. i'll tell you a situation that concerns romania and the cvm. there is now a suspicion in my country that the cvm reports are not up to date, or the data are not verified and are not verifiable or accurate. having this suspicion, which was immediately propagated in the media, romania addressed the european commission through the representation of this institution in bucharest in order to clarify the issues that aroused the suspicion of the associations of magistrates in romania. since a report drawn up by the commission is clear, it is, so to speak, human for that institution to try to justify the way in which that report was drawn up without the necessary objectivity. i have no doubt that the answer that will come from the commission will be one that we all know in advance. i believe that such a referral could have been subject to direct scrutiny by the european parliament through the specialised committees on a case-by-case basis, so as to avoid wasting time and to enable the parliament to exercise its control over the commission.
in writing. – as a shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe committee), i am disappointed to see that the final report on eu citizenship does not include any references to the protection of national minorities, despite the strong references accepted in the libe committee. it is difficult to understand that – even though approximately 8% of eu citizens belong to a national minority and approximately 10% speak a regional or minority language – more than 10 years after the signing of the lisbon treaty the eu has still not developed a common eu framework to guarantee these citizens’ rights. in the years that have passed since the adoption of the lisbon treaty, disillusionment has grown in the hearts of many such citizens, as the eu has not only neglected to adopt legal acts for their protection but has also failed to sanction member states which have started curtailing acquired rights. it is time that the eu acknowledged the special contribution of autochthonous national, ethnic or linguistic minority communities to european diversity; time that it stopped turning a blind eye to their concerns; and time that it took seriously its duty to protect them and to guarantee their rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to protest is a fundamental, unquestionable right which must be protected and at the same time be subject to clear rules. among them: the protection of people who choose not to protest, often in large numbers, the protection of public or individual property, but also, and essentially, the protection of those who participate in a protest, that is, especially the right not to be used as human shields by those who come to the protests just to create violence and scandal. i believe that law-abiding protesters should be protected, and those who use such events to be violent and to divert the purpose of protests should be isolated and severely punished. we cannot accept peaceful protesters being used as human shields. i repeat: those who are violent must be isolated and severely punished. it is not acceptable that good-faith protesters, caught between law enforcement and aggressive groups bent on destruction and violence, become victims of natural reactions to violence and provocation.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the debate on the future of europe will reach a high point this year, the commission believes, when heads of state and government in the romanian grand chamber in may will express their belief in a europe that can deliver tangible results for citizens. i think that if the summit is going to be held in the multiethnic transylvania, then these results should really be visible and felt by the indigenous national minorities. largely once a centre of the several hundred thousand transylvanian germans, today only a few thousand germans live in romania. the hungarian community in transylvania, however, numbers one million three hundred thousand people and expects europe to pay attention to the fact that it cannot use its symbols, that the state only guarantees the use of the mother tongue on paper, or that the future of hungarian-language medical education is in danger. the specific problems of national minorities must be included in thinking about the future of europe and this issue cannot remain a matter for member states.
in writing. this report takes a generally positive approach to artificial intelligence (ai) and robotics and lists a large number of existing and potential benefits to society, industry and specific sectors such as public administration, healthcare, transport, energy, cybersecurity, etc. europe is leading the ai revolution that can substantially improve the lives and conditions of citizens, leading to new business models and playing a key role in digitising economies and transforming our societies. however, we agree that ai must be in line with european values, with respect for human rights and privacy, and that measures aimed at education and retraining must be taken when jobs are replaced by robots to ensure a just transition. developments in artificial intelligence must be designed, developed and implemented in such a way as to protect the dignity, autonomy and self-determination of the person, i.e. be people-centred. we want a society that is supported by artificial intelligence and robotics. therefore, the increasing integration of robotics into human systems must be guided by a sound policy on maximising the benefits and minimising the risks to society.
mr. chairman, i've asked to take the floor to say two things. the first concerns the candidacy of laura codruța kövesi for the post of chief prosecutor of the european public prosecutor's office. this is a person who is known and appreciated throughout the european union. her appointment should not be a political bargain, nor a vote for or against the government in bucharest, which refuses to support her after it dismissed her from the dna head for political reasons. i therefore call on all the political groups in the european parliament to vote in favour of it. in this way, we would show that a person who has achieved miracles in the fight against corruption in one member state is supported to do the same at european level. the second thing concerns klaus iohannis. mr president, two years ago, the chambers in bucharest agreed to hold a referendum on the fight against corruption that you promised the romanian citizens. i ask you to convene this consultation on 26 may, the day of the european elections. in this way, romanian citizens will be able to say whether they want to keep their country in the european union or, as dăncilă and dragnea want, they are thinking of returning to an authoritarian regime and isolated from other europeans.
mr president, recently in romania, information has emerged that no less than ten banks have resorted to trust arrangements to manipulate robor. it is the average interest rate at which romanian banks lend to each other, artificially setting its level. the level of robor influences the value of monthly interest rates on loans in national currency. depending on the robor, romanians pay more or less for bank loans. i have informed the commission of this situation and requested urgent intervention to verify the compliance of the romanian banks with the principle of free competition. a dishonest banking system is a danger to the free market, but also to the direct interests of citizens. there are signs that similar problems have arisen in other eu countries, and that is why i believe that it is imperative for the commission to analyse the situation and for a wider debate to take place here in parliament to see what the situation is. i hope that we will work together to clarify these issues and, if necessary, take measures to ensure that the european citizen does not fall victim to the greed of the banks.
in writing. in europe, but also globally, natural disasters are increasing. they are not only becoming more frequent, but also more intense, posing a serious threat to our societies, economies and ecosystems. the european union has developed a disaster response network, such as the union civil protection mechanism. this instrument has helped member states to optimise their efforts to prevent disasters and reduce risks. unfortunately, recent disasters such as the forest fires in greece and the earthquakes in italy have highlighted the shortcomings of the mechanism. i strongly support the rapporteur's position on the future mechanism. it should have its own capabilities in addition to those made available by the member states. these new resources would be intended to cover the identified gaps in the national response systems. finally, i would like to stress the importance of an adequate budget to ensure the efficiency and resilience of this much-needed european instrument.
madam president, commissioner, we are certainly debating a sensitive subject today and we must be rational, along with being sensitive. it's very clear: we all want to protect people's health. at the same time, let us think about and make a scenario: if we destroy the farmers in the european union, we will obviously import, as my colleagues have said, products and we will never have a customs union that can control piece by piece the products that come in and are more dangerous than those produced in the european union. of course, as the commissioner said, it is very important for the member states to review their measures, but, commissioner, i think we must have harmonised measures and we must also have harmonised controls because, within the internal market, products are certainly circulating and it is no use for a member state to be very rigorous if, as you said, products must be checked for toxicology in other member states. i really believe that we need to invest in agriculture, we need to invest in research and innovation so that these products used do not attack people's health.
madam president, commissioner, the use of pesticides plays a very important role in european agricultural production by maintaining plant health and preventing their destruction by disease and infestation. however, pesticides administered to crops may enter soil and surface water through dissolution and leakage and may enter groundwater, with the risk of adversely affecting non-target species in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. commissioner, i cannot agree with the rapporteur's proposal not to grant exemptions for the use of neonicotinoids. i think it is essential to take account of the specificity of agriculture in each member state. perhaps what is true in germany is not true in bulgaria with regard to this specificity of agriculture and even pests. integrated pest management in the european agricultural sector aims at maintaining the use of pesticides and forms of intervention at levels that are economically and environmentally justified and that reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment, giving priority to sustainable biological methods as well as physical and chemical methods of crop protection and pest deterrence.
in writing. biodiversity is threatened all over the world! the rate of species extinction is extremely high, 100 to 1,000 times faster than the natural rate. the loss of biodiversity, together with climate change, is the most serious threat to the environment, on which our economy and society depend! i call on the member states to implement this directive without any delay. a quarter of animal species are facing extinction. i welcome the work of the rapporteur and support the european parliament and council directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. integrated pest management focuses on growing healthy crops using methods that minimise the impact on agro-ecosystems and encourage more natural methods of pest control, and it is one of the priorities of this report that deserves our full attention and support!
reporting for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion on this report, i certainly support the report and say that it is very important to see how this crossborder healthcare directive is implemented in the member states. let us not forget that 40% of the citizens of the european union are in cross-border areas. let's not forget that there is a eurobarometer survey that shows that less than 20% of european citizens know about these rights. that is why, in the imco opinion, we supported additional measures to inform citizens, because it is very important that they know their rights. it is also very important to have adequate funding and to maintain funding, as was the case in the third health package. last but not least, i would say that what has been done is very important: the european health card, e-health, is very important. the commission should also be able to provide information on the costs of the activities of the european medicines agency and the costs of the european medicines agency. that is why, commissioner, i support the report and hope that the situation will improve in all member states because people's lives and health are very important.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr belet, for his very important report on the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive. you know i am a medical doctor and for me it is very close to my heart. each year, millions of europeans travel to other eu countries, safe in the knowledge that they can access healthcare if necessary. at the same time, other citizens are planning treatment in different member states. why? because eu law guarantees the right to access healthcare across borders and the right to reimbursement in their home country. so it is safe to say that cross-border healthcare is an issue of high importance for european citizens. in this context, i welcome parliament’s draft report and motion for a resolution on the implementation of a cross-border healthcare directive. let me stress that we fully agree with you. action is necessary to improve the implementation of the directive. in fact, your draft report is very much in line with the conclusions of the commission’s own report on the directive’s implementation, which we published last september, as you know. i want to take a few moments to touch on what we are doing to improve implementation. the commission has examined the transposition of the directive into national law. we took swift action when elements were missing and launched 26 infringement proceedings on account of late or incomplete transposition. the first phase is now complete and all infringements relating to this phase have been closed. the commission has now moved to an in-depth assessment of compliance, carefully examining measures put in place in each member state. this approach is delivering results. many member states have already changed their legislation for the benefit of patients. but i want to assure you that the commission will continue its intensive dialogue with member states to achieve the best possible transposition of the directive. a directive allows member states room for manoeuvre when it comes to transposition. unfortunately, we have evidence of discrimination against eu citizens seeking treatment in another european union country. patients often face very complex administrative procedures ahead of planned treatment abroad. we are taking action to put an end to any unjustified practices. on 23 january, the commission launched infringement proceedings against two member states regarding national rules on reimbursement tariffs. in light of this, i welcome the draft report’s focus on the reimbursement schemes. we will now discuss with member states ways to simplify procedures for eu patients in line with the directive. the commission will also continue to address the lack of awareness when it comes to citizens’ rights. we also fully agree with the committee’s recommendation that the member states provide sufficient funding for their national contact points. i can assure the honourable members that the commission will continue to support the national contact points. a toolbox to support the national contact points’ work will also be made public in the near future. our goal here is to improve national contact points’ effectiveness so that the information provided will deliver practical benefits to patients. of course, the directive also encourages cross-border healthcare cooperation between member states, especially in the border regions. in this context, the commission provides support for a european network of regional and local health authorities through its health policy platform. here i want to highlight two important points made by your report. firstly, on the establishment of 24 european reference networks, which represent a major achievement in the field of healthcare cooperation on rare diseases. but these networks are also facing challenges involving their integration into national healthcare systems. i am thankful for your call on member states to support healthcare providers that are european reference network members. secondly, i want to echo your position on digital solutions. in fact, only last week the commission adopted a recommendation on a european electronic health record exchange format. the recommendation aims to make it possible for people to safely access their health records across borders. i am very pleased to see that finland and estonia have recently begun to exchange e-prescriptions thanks to the european union’s work. this is a significant step forward and will increase accessibility to services for patients. honourable members, your draft report makes an important contribution to the discussion on cross-border healthcare. i look forward to your final report and i assure you that the commission will examine each recommendation very carefully. our convergence on this issue means that we can move forward together, deliberately. ultimately, this cooperation will benefit citizens and health systems across the european union.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague ivo belet on his report. this legislative framework, which allows patients to benefit, under certain conditions, from reimbursement of medical services in any member state, is one of the very practical and very important achievements of the european union for the benefit of patients. i amended and supported this directive as a deputy in 2010-2011 and then i had the chance to implement this directive in my country, romania, as president of the national health insurance house in 2013-2014. however, contrary to the objectives of the directive, some member states have adopted administrative measures that substantially block cross-border healthcare, such as reimbursement restrictions or complicated, sometimes unjustified, pre-authorisation requirements. in addition, a large number of european patients are not aware of the rights conferred by this directive. as health is a fundamental right under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, i call on the european commission to ensure that member states correctly implement this directive.
madam president, water scarcity affects 11% of the european population and 17% of the territory of the european union. the rational use of water is crucial for obvious reasons: we need water to produce food, energy and consumer goods. to protect this resource, appropriate solutions must be built at european level. the water framework directive mentions urban wastewater reuse as an additional measure for efficient resource management, but the opportunity is not yet fully exploited in the absence of clear legislation. unfortunately, the commission's proposal is limited to reclaimed water used for agricultural irrigation. the scope and methods of using treated waste water must be extended, obviously under maximum safety conditions. i support the rapporteur's position on the need for a regulation to establish harmonised criteria at european union level for urban waste water reuse activities.
in writing. water quality and quantity must be monitored carefully because resources are limited. sustainable water use is a necessity. the redistribution of waste water must be done responsibly, and therefore there is a need to clearly set out, along the entire distribution chain - from the reclamation plant operator to the user - concrete responsibilities and measures to verify how they are implemented. in industrial and agricultural areas, particularly where pollution is highest, there must be strict control. national water authorities must organise specialist training for employees and inform all employees about the danger and harmful effects of non-compliance with the rules laid down. human lives also depend on how reused water is managed and therefore not only precise regulations are needed, but also controls and sanctioning measures in case of violation of established rules.
in writing. water is a finite resource. people seem to become aware of the validity of this statement only in the face of calamities and droughts that are becoming more severe and more frequent. i welcome the efforts made by member states and the eu to help each other after last year's droughts. there have been actions that have shown that european solidarity works. i welcome both this report and the agri opinion, for which i was the shadow rapporteur. however, we know that europe is diverse and the volume of water resources and water management differs from one country to another. we do need european recommendations on water reuse, but differences between regions and member states must be taken into account. europe is also diverse when it comes to the level of education and awareness of the need for and safety of water reuse. i believe, therefore, that a fair balance must be struck between the ambitions of brussels on the one hand and the realities of the poorer peripheral regions on the other. the sudden imposition of drastic conditions for water reuse can, in certain regions, generate dramatic effects of social polarization and, in the long term, developments contrary to today's laudable intentions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, some are saying that the war in syria has ended. i think such a statement is a total misconception. although we can observe an apparent decrease in fighting, no progress has been made on the underlying causes of the conflict, and peace is still so far away. yes, the syrian-russian-iranian military alliance has retaken territories held by the opposition forces, including terrorist groups, but they have done so following attacks that involved indiscriminate air strikes and prohibited weapons. the war will end only when we find a way towards a genuine political transition, with full accountability and credible transitional justice; and when we can ensure that the six million refugees and the four million internally displaced syrians will have a home to return to and will be protected by their state. only then, can reconstruction start. justice remains a key word. the syrian conflict is marked by war crimes, ranging from systematic torture and detention by the syrian security services, through the government impeding humanitarian aid, to the consistent use of indiscriminate and prohibited weapons by the syrian-russian military alliance. if the syrian justice system is not capable of providing independent and effective prosecution, we should find an international solution. and, commissioner, one message for the commission: the eu cannot accept a fait accompli imposed by bashar al—assad and his protectors.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all their valuable contributions and i think it was a useful exchange. from this debate, i conclude that we are of one mind in terms of support for syrians and the need to find solutions to the conflict to allow refugees to return to their homes. i also conclude that the european union engagement needs to be maintained at the same level and under the same conditions. we will not grant legitimacy to the current regime, or its return to the international arena, without progress in geneva and without changes on the ground in relation to respect for basic human rights and humanitarian laws. the brussels iii conference will be, even more than the previous conferences, about people. more syrian people will be present, more civil society representatives will come to talk to the ministers and international organisations about their dreams, their concerns and the future. this conference will last, altogether, three days. it will include two days of opportunities to meet politicians and to give politicians, and also ordinary citizens and civil society organisations, the opportunity to talk to each other, to exchange views and to look at what could be done in order to improve the humanitarian situation and to help people on the ground. in particular, we will look more closely at the question of women’s empowerment and at ways to alleviate the pain of the most vulnerable syrians, while continuing our long-term investment and accountability and providing necessary support inside syria and also outside it, in particular to the host communities which still have a considerable burden in dealing with the syrian refugees. on the other hand, we have to face the reality that, whether we like it or not, some, if not many, syrian refugees will not return to syria any time soon, and in that respect we also need to see how we can support host communities and countries in their efforts to deal with these ongoing challenges.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking you for your work and your unwavering commitment to bosnia and herzegovina's european path. we are already at the presentation of my fourth and last report of the current parliamentary term on the evolution of this country towards europe. after having been on an upward trajectory since 2015, bosnia and herzegovina has been in a period of marked slowdown since 2017, which worries us, as i know it worries you too. when i became the permanent rapporteur in 2014, my hope was that the country would receive candidate status during this term. despite our joint efforts to support bosnia and herzegovina, this objective has not yet been achieved. and, as the general elections on 7 october 2018 approached, the old demons of political divisions and ethnic polarization resurfaced. the country entered the campaign with a broken electoral law, several articles of which were invalidated by the constitutional court, and which could not be changed due to lack of agreement between the political actors. four months and five days after the elections, the authorities are not in place and the reform process has not restarted as desired. there are, of course, always explanations for these delays: the complexity of the country, its painful past and the trauma of war, as well as the unfinished work of reconciliation, are very real problems that must indeed be taken into account. but let there be no mistake: what is at stake now is not the overcoming of a new crisis, but the european future of the country. and it is not to us that the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina are accountable, but to their own citizens. the people of bosnia and herzegovina have the right to a functioning political and institutional system that does not discriminate against anyone. they have the right to live a decent life in their own country, rather than being forced to take the path of exile. they have a right to an independent judiciary that does its job without undue political interference. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina have the right to live in a society that is not gangrenous with corruption present in every area of their lives. they also have the right to an efficient and depoliticised administration, which serves the citizens and not the other way around. finally, they have the right to free media that inform them objectively and without political pressure. membership of the european union can bring them this. all of this is, to be honest, within reach, provided that the political elites abandon their little political games and stop using hatred towards others and division. the time has come for political actors to be responsible, to train authorities at all levels without delay and finally to show determination in pursuing economic and political reforms geared towards the european union. this, together with the replies to the additional questions from the european commission, will give bosnia and herzegovina a chance to obtain the status of candidate country. why not this year? finally, i would like to stress the very important issue of cooperation with the european parliament and urge you, commissioner, to make this a political priority in the next steps of bosnia-herzegovina's european path.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes the expected adoption of the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina. i would again like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, for his high-quality report. i would also like to thank all the members who have actively participated in its production and in today’s debate and have shown a keen interest in bosnia and herzegovina’s european future. the commission takes note of this resolution and will take parliament’s views into account, including those expressed today. we particularly share parliament’s view that the authorities stemming from the october 2018 elections should be formed as soon as possible, without conditions, and that work on the necessary reforms should be resumed. this is particularly necessary against the backdrop of the upcoming commission opinion on bosnia and herzegovina’s application for eu membership, provided we receive the outstanding answers to our questions. i have also taken note of the call to bosnia and herzegovina to ensure the functioning of the stabilisation and association agreement and of the associated parliamentary committee, in line with the eu’s standards and the country’s commitments under the agreement. i will raise this issue with the bosnia and herzegovina leadership, and the commission will review the implementation of the stabilisation and association provisions by bosnia and herzegovina in the forthcoming opinion. finally, i would like to stress that the commission will spare no effort in supporting bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards the european union. as ms maletić and others said, this includes, for instance, identifying and creating new opportunities in terms of programmes and even financing. the commission will, of course, keep parliament informed in the coming months on future developments regarding bosnia and herzegovina. once again, thank you for your support.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, once more let me reiterate our gratitude for the excellent work of the rapporteur and also for all the support he got from parliament. romania’s presidency of the council has put it as a priority to be a friend of the western balkans and is going to do its best to advance the region and the countries of the region on their european path. we are fully decided to help all of the countries of the western balkans. of course, they need to pass the reforms needed and i think that in the case of bosnia and herzegovina there is an urgent need for formation of the government at all levels and to decisively move with the implementation of reforms. this would help us as well. i am planning too to go to sarajevo and i think the romanian presidency is going to pay a visit to all the countries of the western balkans, before, i think, the crucial discussion we will have in the council in june. at the same time, one of the events of the romanian presidency of the council is exactly about how to reconcile the region with the past. it’s an event that is focused on the youth of the region and how important it is to overcome the divisive rhetoric and to have a real historical reconciliation in the region.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, minister, i will start with the suggestion made by the minister, mr ciamba, because i think it is a really excellent initiative to work with young people, to talk to them about europe and to see how this reconciliation could be done. as we have seen today, the debate on bosnia-herzegovina has gone in all directions: our british colleague brought star trek into the debate, our greek colleague spoke of nato in the port of thessaloniki, and i wanted to ask him, if we are talking about real strategic issues, why the port of piraeus was given to the chinese. but with bosnia-herzegovina, it is still one of our countries in the western balkans. this country is a european country thanks to the efforts of our croat friends: 95% of croats in bosnia and herzegovina are european citizens and i have always said that there is no mep in particular and no european nation closer to bosnia and herzegovina than the croats. but perhaps croats should also think of others, not just themselves. they will be true supporters of the integration of bosnia and herzegovina when they speak about others, not just croats, who are already european citizens. let me also suggest to our socialist and liberal friends that they make a small effort to integrate political parties from bosnia and herzegovina into their network because we, the epp, are very well represented there, but there is no liberal party or socialist party in bosnia and herzegovina. how do you expect to help them if you don't have contacts, if you don't work with your friends on the ground? i know it is not easy, but to really help bosnia and herzegovina to become european, we must move from rhetoric to real action on the ground.
mr president, i welcome the eu—singapore partnership agreement and i congratulate both negotiation teams on their sustained efforts during bilateral negotiations. singapore has, for a long time, been a reliable political and economic friend of the eu, currently hosting more than 10 000 of our companies and sharing our fundamental values on a free and competitive economy and the rule of law. as singapore is one of the founding members of asean and a major hub in the region, i personally perceive this partnership as a solid geo—strategic foundation for the future region—to—region relationship between the european union and asean member states, one of the fastest growing economies in the world. the eu—singapore free trade agreement will create new opportunities for new businesses to export to singapore. this agreement will give an estimated boost to the eu economy of eur 550 million over the next 10 years.
madam president, commissioners, i will not talk about the fact that the document is late or that it is not good. i agree with what the commissioners have said here, but i will focus on the fact that we must put into practice better what we say. we issue a lot of documents here, but there is a very big difference between thinking and acting, and, mr timmermans and commissioner, a sustainable economy means people's lives and means citizens' trust in the european project. we all want this european project to survive, and for that, i think we need to think about how we can define the concepts in the same way for everyone, how we can apply them in a transparent way in the same way for everyone, because it was said here that there were crises in different states - in france, in italy, in the netherlands, in romania, my country - but, you see, these crises have been treated differently, and that does not give confidence for a sustainable european union. i agree with scenario 1, as my colleagues have said, but i think we need to define our concepts correctly.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, i think it is safe to say this morning that this regulation that we are voting on today is one of the most important pieces of legislation that we have voted on in this mandate and i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs for all of the work which they have done. why do i say this is important? it is important because it lays down the founding principles of how eu structural funds will be spent in the seven years after 2021. we might not yet have concrete amounts of money, and this is particularly due to the delays in the council – i would like to understand – but our position, the vote in parliament, will define how money is spent, to whom it goes and under which circumstances. from the committee on budget’s point of view, my mission was to make sure that parliament’s position on the multiannual financial framework (mff) is also part of this regulation and we demand two things. firstly, that the amounts for cohesion policy stay at the same level or increase, because people in europe expect more growth, more competitiveness, better infrastructure, and we cannot do more with less. and our second demand is simplification, certainty for our beneficiaries, and this is why i call on the council to stop dragging their feet, to enter into trilogue so that we give certainty to eu beneficiaries as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, constanze krehl and andrey novakov, on the excellent work they have done on this report on cohesion policy. this common fund regulation, as it stands today, is succeeding in being a key instrument that enables the eight european policies in areas of major importance to have a positive impact on the lives of the citizens of the european union. we also stress the need for real simplification in the process of absorbing european funds, which is equally important, commissioner, and i stress this, that the member states do not add additional conditionality to the brussels rules, which makes the absorption process enormously difficult. at the same time, i welcome the agreement reached by the european parliament on the n+3 rule for spending european money, as we know that delays in this area are caused by various reasons, but not by the beneficiaries. i hope that this will be maintained after the trialogue. i also stress the need for greater synergy between european funds in various areas, which certainly increases the efficiency of the use of european money and has a major impact on the quality of life of citizens. last but not least, success stories such as those of the leader programme, and more specifically those of local action groups, need to be multiplied and taken to a higher level of exploitation by increasing their funding. microregions must acquire increased competences in the process of absorbing european funds and in relation to the european commission, reducing their dependence on national governments, which paradoxically can sometimes be hostile to them. they must be able to apply directly to the european commission for the european funding needed for their development. one last thing i want to highlight is the one about visibility. ladies and gentlemen, european citizens need to be informed and made aware of the importance of european funds and the positive impact they have on their daily lives.
mr president, commissioner crețu, this report is fundamental for the future of cohesion policy and i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their efforts and results. what they have achieved seems almost miraculous considering the moment when preparations began to present the final formula to parliament. at the same time, i would like to note that they have considerably improved the commission's proposal. a strong, effective, well-funded and solidarity-based cohesion policy is essential not only for poor regions but for the development of the european union as a whole. at the same time, however, let me stress my strong opposition to macroeconomic conditionality. it has nothing to do with cohesion policy and i hope that parliament will reject it, as it has done in the past. as regards the timetable for the adoption of this regulation, i would ask all my colleagues and the institutions to make every effort to complete as many of the agreed chapters for the common regulation as possible during the remaining time. at the same time, i formally ask the council and the romanian rotating presidency to give parliament a formal assurance that in the future no closed chapters will be reopened for negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is a very important policy for europe and has, in my view, produced good results in the years since it was introduced, starting with the crisis of 2009-2010. unfortunately, this policy has been under constant pressure, especially from net contributors. it is also clear from the commission's proposal to propose projects only within the framework of the country-specific recommendations, which i do not think is normal, plus the macroeconomic conditionality. in fact, it is also reflected in the budget, because i do not understand, commissioner, how could you accept that the budget for the cohesion fund should be cut to such an extent? i think that is not normal for a commissioner who is responsible for that area. so it is also reflected in the budget and we must support the european parliament's proposal to raise the budget at least to the level it is at now, because, i repeat, this policy is still needed. as far as cofinancing is concerned, i think that cofinancing is an artificial discussion. more co-financing is needed for countries that do not have the financial means to propose projects based on european funds. after all, the amount given by the european funds is the same. it depends on how many projects you do: with more funding you do fewer projects, with less funding you do more projects, so i think we need to leave it at a higher value to allow member states to submit projects. transfer to the sef: after all, cohesion money has to be used for transport. i think the best solution would be to introduce very clear rules into this regulation: where should the money go in transport policy.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's proposal to simplify the procedures for cohesion policy in the next multiannual financial year, to help the managers and beneficiaries of the cohesion funds. it is important that this regulation should drastically reduce the unnecessary administrative burden of previous programmes. i would like to express my support for an increase to eur 378 billion for economic, social and territorial cohesion, at least up to the same level as in this financial year. by also increasing the co-financing rate from 70% to 85% for europe's less developed regions, we ensure that the real beneficiaries of cohesion are those who need it most. please note that more decentralisation and a direct relationship and direct funding decision between brussels and micro-regions or local authorities is needed because in many member states national governments are a brake on spending cohesion funds on time.
mr president, a reinforced, simpler and more focused cohesion policy that takes into account the investment needs of all regions is the best answer the eu can give both to historical development disparities and to the new challenges of our changing world. it was never an easy task to reconcile all the constraints and needs related to this file, starting from brexit-induced budgetary constraints, stakeholder calls for simplification or the identification of those ex-ante conditionalities which are essential for the good implementation of the funds, but i think that ultimately we obtained a good result. i especially welcome that we managed to agree on diverting as few resources as possible from the cohesion fund to other objectives. it is important to equip ourselves with innovative financial instruments, but let’s not forget that there are still countries in the eu that lack the basic environmental, transport or energy infrastructure that is indispensable for their future development.
mr president, commissioner crețu, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a regulation which will establish common rules for seven funds, for what will be future cohesion, and i am appalled by the commission's proposal, which puts absurd conditionalities. i would like to thank my colleagues, led by two extraordinary rapporteurs, who have tabled thousands of amendments here, and i hope, i very much hope, that the vote will be taken to exclude these conditionalities, because, commissioner, the money comes from the pockets of the citizens of each member state. it is absurd for an unelected executive of the european union to decide where the money goes. it is not right to think about cohesion and at the same time punish areas which are unfortunately less developed, and i hope that no euro will be cut from the cohesion funds compared to the past and i also hope that the poor, remote areas, whatever you want to call them, will enjoy real funding. i also hope, commissioner, that this absurd strategic investment fund, allocated on a first-come, first-served basis, will be distributed differently to help cohesion.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. this is a strictly technical update. i read the following oral amendment: takes note of the central election commission decision on allocation of seats in the federation house of peoples, adopted on 18 december 2018, and calls on all political actors to address the remaining legal gaps in the bosnia and herzegovina elections law in a systematic way.
mr president, it is necessary for the future of the european union and its citizens that cohesion policy remains the main investment policy of the union, maintaining its funding in the period 2021-2027 at least at the level of the 2014-2020 programming period. the commission proposal, however, provides for a smaller budget: €330.6 billion for cohesion policy compared to the previous period. parliament decided that the allocation for cohesion policy should remain, in real terms, at the same level as for the period 2014-2020. i support the increase of eur 47.5 billion and the proposal that less developed regions be supported with eur 224.4 billion through the investment for jobs and growth goal and that eur 46.3 billion be allocated to member states receiving support from the cohesion fund. on the other hand, it is important to maintain the appropriate level of co-financing and i support giving greater leeway by providing for higher co-financing rates where appropriate, namely 85% co-financing rates for the regions ... (the president interrupted)
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment of medical technologies and amending directive 2011/24/eu (com ((2018) 0051 c8-0024/2018 2018/0018 ((cod)) (a8-0289/2018). i want to make this clear first: blue cards will not be allowed, and, as far as catch the eye is concerned, depending on the time, because at 5 p.m., you know very well, we have votes and we have to adhere very strictly to the time to meet this time. so, catch the eye we'll evaluate when we see how we're doing with time and please each speaker to fit in time.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss the commission proposal for a regulation on health technology assessment. parliament has shown very active and constructive engagement on this file, which led to the adoption of the envi committee report in plenary on 3 october last. once again, i would like to congratulate ms cabezón ruiz for her excellent and timely work as rapporteur for this file. i also want to reiterate my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, ms grossetete, ms meissner, ms konečná and others as well as the envi committee, the committee on industry research and energy and the committee on internal market and consumer protection. regrettably, negotiations between the institutions have not yet commenced, but the adoption of parliament’s formal first reading position would send a clear signal on the importance of continuing to work on this file as we move towards the end of this mandate and onwards into the next one. the commission appreciates parliament’s overall support for its proposal, including a clear and ambitious product scope on medicinal products and medical devices. while time does not allow me to comment in detail on all the various amendments, i want to echo some of the points made by the commission in october. first, on the issue of the national use of european joint clinical assessments, the commission welcomes parliament’s strong support in ensuring that joint clinical assessments will be used by member states and will not be repeated. the approach suggested by parliament to add some qualification as to the meaning of non-duplication of european clinical assessments at national level has been helpful in the ongoing discussions in the council. while the issue is still open, it needs further discussion. it takes a step towards addressing the concerns expressed by some member states. parliament has also added that the legislation should not prevent member states from conducting complementary clinical assessments outside the scope of the joint clinical assessment. i am ready to support such an approach. other amendments were aimed at further qualifying the proposal. they stress that member states continue to be responsible for drawing their own conclusions on the added therapeutic value of health technologies in the context of their healthcare and cure systems. the second general area i would like to comment on concerns the respective roles of the commission and the member states in the cooperation process. in this area the amendments follow the spirit of the text as they aim to clarify the members states’ responsibility for conducting the joint work and the supporting role of the commission. the third important area relates to the quality and transparency of joint work produced through eu cooperation. the proposed amendment should ensure the submission of appropriate evidence by technology developers and provide for a high scientific quality, independence and transparency in the joint work. there were important objectives of the commission’s proposal and i’m convinced that the real added value of strengthened cooperation on hta at eu level lies in the quality of joint clinical assessments. together we are all much stronger. lastly, let me stress that the commission has concerns when it comes to the removal of the harmonisation of national rules related to clinical assessment. this was one important element of our proposal, notably to improve the functioning of the internal market while contributing to a high level of human health protection. in proposing such harmonisation of national hta methodologies, we had actually responded to the previous calls for action from parliament. among those calls i remember that your resolution on access to medicines called for the harmonisation of hta tools and methodologies, and it’s clear. i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission welcomes parliament’s constructive proposals and stands ready to continue to discuss and explore solutions to outstanding issues with the co-legislators. the commission is currently fully engaged in the discussions in the council as these continue to progress and we welcome the romanian presidency’s commitment to move the discussion forward. the hta proposal is expected to lead to a saving and benefits for all key actors. it will support member states in their investment decisions to prioritising truly innovative technologies. national authorities will be able to pool their expertise and avoid duplication of efforts, making better use of human and financial resources. industry will benefit from clearer rules and greater predictability for their business planning, as well as cost savings. the healthcare sector accounts for approximately 10% of european union gdp or 1 300 billion per year. but, above all, this proposal is about european citizens, about european patients. patients are at the heart of this proposal, which aims to deliver more efficient, transparent and effective european union hta. the new model of eu cooperation has a clear potential to facilitate better access to innovative health technologies. yesterday we discussed issues about women and cancer, about possibilities to guarantee access to new treatments and hta is a tool which can help us address these issues. i therefore call on you to help make this initiative a success. i look forward to hearing your views.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, as i mentioned previously, i welcome the new proposal aimed at strengthening eu cooperation on health technology assessment. i’d like to thank ms cabezón ruiz and my colleagues for the close collaboration. i believe that joint clinical assessment should be done at eu level in order to shorten the process and provide faster access to innovative drugs for all patients in the eu without jeopardising the final decision of the member states. as the rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i took particular interest in two main objectives of the proposal: to increase the level of human health protection and to ensure better functioning of the internal market. we amended the proposal so that health technology developers would have the possibility to request an update of the clinical assessment where additional evidence from clinical practices became available, and we also asked for a flexible mechanism to introduce innovative technologies and treatments for patients. i support adoption at first reading. i hope that under romaniaʼs presidency an agreement will be reached, but i’m sure that the romanian presidency will achieve important progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 14 february 2019. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the vote. )
mr president, i imagine that mr brok does know, germany being a member of nato, that the system in deveselu is part of nato and the german authorities have full access to all the capabilities there. this is why i will invite all of you to be cautious. now, mr president, mr minister, we are now living in a new nuclear era, characterised by the development of new generations of nuclear missiles and launchers. well, the hypersonic capabilities are just one part of the new realities. what is there to do then? in less than six months that will lead to the usa’s full withdrawal from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty (inf), following the continued russian violations of it, a constructive dialogue is still possible and urgently needed. as europe was the main beneficiary and the remains the only target of all inf systems, europe should push and should work with its allies, the us being the most important one, to guarantee the return to the negotiations of the two signatories: the united states and russia. nevertheless, all efforts must also be made to preserve the strategic arms reduction treaty (start) agreement, which will soon experience quite the same situation as inf and to guarantee that the new developments, new update agreements should provide the necessary monitoring systems.
blue-card question. – mr president, mr tarand, you said the european union should have to reply with force to mr putin’s russia. what kind of force do you have in mind? on what forces are the european union’s security and defence now based?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism for screening and scrutiny of foreign investment in the european union is a necessity. who wants to believe otherwise... this is not about protectionism, it is ultimately about safety and i do not think that this is, as my colleague said earlier, a way of taking money from the commission. i am usually critical of the commission, but now we all have to think that if we do not have a harmonised system in all the member states for screening and verifying foreign investment, not only is unfair competition created, smes in the european union are destroyed, but we end up with no security at all, and finally, today we have debated another report on the sustainability of the european union. i think we all want to have a european union. we need to have a secure single market, but we also need to have security. i therefore very much appreciate this regulation and i think it is up to us to apply it correctly and it is very good that the regulation provides for the possibility of verification by the commission and reporting to parliament on how this regulation is applied. i think that what we need to see here is the problem, the harmonized application and the filtering. and that's a very nice thing to say, because you have to take into account the specificity of the country.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market also needs rules. we can't just let things go on without any rules. we are talking here, in this proposal for a regulation, about a principle: mutual recognition. it is clear that if we have well-established, very clear rules at member state level and we have them harmonised, it is much simpler for the economic operator, for the producer, and it is even safer for the consumer. i'm surprised at the attitude of some colleagues who think we should leave everything unattended. the proposal for a regulation makes it very clear that both national authorities and economic operators in the member states must have very clear technical rules which are not open to interpretation, so that there is no problem when a product is tested by means of a survey. because yes, the regulation does provide for the possibility for the economic operator to make a declaration, but this does not preclude the member state from checking whether the self-declaration is the same and whether the product is the same as the self-declaration. i see no obstacle in the fact that we want to harmonize and apply this principle. on the contrary, i see an increase in the movement of goods in the internal market, an increase in consumer safety and, it must be said, an increase in the efficiency of economic activity, with the following clarification: the commission needs to update the list of products covered by this regulation online because it needs to be known which products are covered by this regulation. then, of course, we need to have clear rules for recognising goods that are legally traded, because we have to understand that illegal products are also traded. we are talking here in this regulation about the legal marketing of products and mutual recognition in the member states and these rules must be clear to avoid that a national authority, for example, subsequently requires certain additional product checks which means a cost and a bureaucracy, especially for small businesses.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have certainly seen different views here. only those who said they disagreed with the report didn't make any credible arguments. how can we not talk about liberalization? how can we say that privatising bus transport services would be bad for the internal market? i shall begin with what i should say at the end: i support the report and the romanian delegation supports this report. and my country has problems in rural areas, where transport is by bus, but not only in rural areas -- and between romania and hungary, between romania and spain, even between romania and serbia and other countries, this transport is by bus. i support the report, i appreciate the balance that is in this report, and of course we have not had a perfect regulation and we have not been able - and that is why there are compromises - to make a regulation as only one side would like, but i suggest and invite my colleagues to vote on this report tomorrow because, commissioner, we are moving forward with the mobility package, we want to block it too. what do we tell our citizens? what are we doing here?
in writing. this important legislative file of the clean mobility package covers important measures to liberalise road passenger transport in the eu. it is also intended to stimulate the development of long-distance bus links in europe, but also to provide alternatives to the use of private cars through additional, better and cheaper mobility options, especially for people with low incomes. as a member of the european parliament in the committee on transport and tourism, i have supported the creation of a genuine single market for road passenger transport in the european union for a single european transport area from the beginning of my mandate. this would certainly benefit road passenger transport companies and i believe that the liberalisation of road passenger transport provides a natural balance in the european transport market, while ensuring economic and social harmonisation within the eu. they also advocate the reintroduction of the concept of 'local excursion' as part of an international service, so as not to be confused with cabotage operations and subject to the secondment regime. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
mr president, the transport of live animals is a real problem that should not be ignored. a transport in breach of animal welfare standards will negatively affect the quality of the meat and affect the health of consumers. member states should endeavour to develop slaughter capacities at microregional level. reducing the distance and transport time between farms and slaughterhouses, but especially between slaughterhouses, processing centres and outlets, is essential to ensure quality products for consumers. but at the same time i have serious reservations about banning exports to certain countries, because it has disastrous economic consequences for farmers. instead, viable solutions need to be identified to address existing shortcomings and, in particular, we need to ensure that the current regulations are respected. at the same time, the middle eastern countries are the main trading partners for imports of live animals from the european union. facilitating slaughter with respect to religious standards in slaughterhouses in the european union would avoid additional transport costs, which would be beneficial for both farmers and consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said that the customs union is a priority. yes, the commissioner began her speech by saying that, of course, the competitiveness of the internal market depends on how the customs union, the customs code, works. i'm a reporter for the "customs" program and we're having a trialogue on march 7th and i don't want to delay it any longer; but if we do not have computerisation and common rules for checking goods, we cannot talk about competitiveness, we cannot talk about product safety, we cannot talk about consumer protection, we cannot talk about fair competition in the market and we cannot talk about reducing corruption, because we have to know that in customs, there is this corruption to pass products that are not in compliance. that is why, commissioner, i ask you very much: insist! we have to negotiate with the commission on one point in my report and i will not give in to this. you want to cut our budget if brexit happens? if we cut the budget, the customs union will never work.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, my political group fought hard to get a resolution on the case of oyub titiev, since this eminent human rights defender has been behind bars for more than 13 months on the basis of clearly fabricated charges. his trial, which can only be described as ridiculous, is drawing to a close. so now more than ever is the time to make our voices heard. if oyub titiev is in prison today, it is only because he refused to bow to mr kadyrov and continued to report on human rights violations in the region. with this case, which is entirely fabricated, mr kadyrov's aim is to silence this last critical voice against his regime. i remind you that memorial is the last non-governmental organisation operating in chechnya, the chechen leader has made sure to expel them one by one. moreover, we all heard at the end of last year that the region will soon be off limits to human rights defenders, putting them in the same category as terrorists and extremists. so i think it is time for mr putin to save his honor and use what little influence he still has in chechnya to free mr titiev.
mr president, ten years ago natalya estemirova was brutally murdered in chechnya for her work on human rights. since then, sadly, the atmosphere for activists and journalists in chechnya has not improved. oyub titiev, her successor as director of the human rights ngo memorial, not only faces ten years in prison on charges that that are widely recognised as fabricated, but has in recent months seen his colleagues, lawyer, personal life and even family threatened. the arrest of mr titiev falls in a clear pattern in which the authorities of the chechen republic tried to crush all criticism of ramzan kadyrov, the kremlin—backed leader of chechnya. therefore, i urge the council to continue its work on a magnitsky act, the high representative as well as the european external action service (eeas) to give this and all other cases of political persecution a priority in eu—russia discussions, and my colleagues to put this incredible injustice on their countries’ agendas.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to this debate and i join my colleagues in their arguments. the current situation in zimbabwe is a great disappointment, it is a disappointment to the hopes that we had in the presidential election. the situation is the same as it was under mugabe, or worse. if someone uses the state's power tools - the army, the police - against citizens, protesters who are protesting against the uncomfortable economic situation, imprisoning, torturing, torturing people for expressing their views on the situation in the country, then we must condemn it. unfortunately, i'm afraid he's going to stay at the prison. the question for the commission, commissioner, is whether we can do more, whether we can use economic instruments to put more pressure on the zimbabwean regime to treat its citizens with a little more dignity and a little more respect. i would personally recommend it, otherwise we could be here in six months to a year talking about zimbabwe in the same fashion, in the same situation as now. so i recommend tougher action by the commission.
mr president, commissioner, zimbabwe has lived for forty years, almost forty years, under the dictatorship of mugabe, and the people have had to suffer from poverty, inflation, violence, repression. over three million citizens have left - most of them in south africa - nearly a quarter of the population. unfortunately, under president mnangagwa, things are no better: he is brutally striking at the opposition, at the protesters who have come out because of the increase in fuel prices and poverty. we have almost 37 dead, we have over 600 victims of violence, of torture, over a thousand arrests. the european union must firmly demand that the current president and the current government withdraw the army as a matter of urgency, not to use violence. there must be a real dialogue between the government and the opposition, possibly mediated by a neutral party, and of course we must demand with all our strength that fundamental human rights be respected.
mr. president, the resolution we voted on today condemns the violent and disproportionate intervention of the security forces against peaceful protesters. in particular, it condemns the use of non-lethal weapons such as kinetic impact projectiles, tear gas grenades and the use of water cannons or tear gas canons. these types of weapons were also used on 10 august 2018 by the romanian gendarmerie against hundreds of thousands of demonstrators demonstrating against the corruption of the psd-alde government. these protestors were peaceful protesters. it was also a premeditated and carefully orchestrated action by the ministry of interior and the leaders of the ruling coalition. hundreds of people were seriously injured. so far, those who gave orders to unleash violence against peaceful protesters and caused injuries have not been brought to justice. he must answer to justice.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i think the proposal is easily understandable. we want to add this essential reference to magnitsky, because it is already recognized as such by our public opinion in this struggle to punish human rights violations and, more generally, all acts of corruption. i think that by adding this reference, we clarify the nature of our commitments.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by daniel dalton, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council framework decision 2009/315/jha, as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals and as regards the european criminal records information system (ecris), and replacing council decision 2009/316/jha (com(2016)0007 – c8—0012/2016 – 2016/0002(cod)) (a8-0219/2016), and– the report by daniel dalton, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a centralised system for the identification of member states holding conviction information on third-country nationals and stateless persons (tcn) to supplement and support the european criminal records information system (ecris-tcn system) and amending regulation (eu) no 1077/2011 (com(2017)0344 – c8-0217/2017 – 2017/0144(cod)) (a8—0018/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, on 12 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by michaela šojdrová, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'european solidarity corps' programme and repealing [the european solidarity corps regulation] and regulation (eu) no 375/2014 (com ((2018) 0440 c8-0264/2018 2018/0230 co (((d)) (a8-0079/2019).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, you have tried to contradict this project, which has been discussed and discussed well and fairly. i ask you what you mean by solidarity and whether you think solidarity is needed? and you said, among other things, that this project worries people. why do people worry? because it's a well-designed project and it actually wants to train young people to volunteer for this purpose. please answer me!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteurs, both angelika niebler and julia reda, all the shadow rapporteurs and associated committees, for their constructive efforts to deal with these two critical legislative files as a matter of urgency. they will reinforce eu cybersecurity structures and improve our collective resilience to combat cyber-attacks in a mutually supportive and coordinated way, as part of building the digital single market. firstly, on the cybersecurity act, the commission fully supports the political agreement reached by the co-legislators. this agreement is the result of good cooperation between the co-legislators on the future of enisa, the european agency for cybersecurity, and on setting up a cybersecurity certification framework for the digital single market. it will strengthen the regulation in several important areas. in particular, it puts in place a clear, open and robust eu framework for cybersecurity certification. the european union will be able to agree certification schemes that are fit for purpose, keep our citizens safe and businesses resilient, and meet the needs of both the regulators and markets. it will provide enisa with a permanent, stronger mandate to contribute to the cybersecurity of the eu. enisa is already using its expertise in cybersecurity exercises to help prepare securing the upcoming european parliament elections. secondly, and equally importantly, i would like to strongly welcome the report on the cybersecurity competence centre and network of national coordination centres proposal. this proposal is a key element for building a secure european digital single market. it responds to the urgent need to build up our cybersecurity capabilities. it uses the excellent research carried out in horizon 2020 and the future horizon year. it is in europe’s strategic interests to make sure that eu industries are at the cutting edge in developing next-generation cybersecurity and digital technologies. we have proposed the digital year programme to finance the development of new cybersecurity capabilities in europe, and to invest with the member states and the private sector in their deployment across the european union. with a planned network of national coordination centres, we want to make sure that member states bring together all relevant parties involved in developing new cybersecurity capabilities for the digital single market, the public and private sectors, as well as academia. i’m delighted that the european parliament’s report shares our vision on the future of european cybersecurity and technologies and the importance of ensuring access to these financial means, based on priorities agreed between all relevant stakeholders. the parliament has worked hard on this file in a very short time and i’m grateful for this. by strengthening europe’s cybersecurity capabilities across the entire digital technology value chain, we are ensuring that the digital single market, that we have built together, will be strong and resilient to cyber-threats. i look forward to the discussion.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a report today and i hope that a very important report will be voted on tomorrow, because 80% of the citizens of the union are connected to the internet and, after all, the lives of citizens and the economies of the member states depend on technologies, on digital technology. at the same time, there is this risk of cyber attacks. that is why i will support the report on the establishment of the european cybersecurity industrial, technological and research competence centre, but also the networks of national and coordination centres, because, as the commissioner said, it is very important that things work in the system, in the internal market. i am glad that the commission's proposal has been supplemented by amendments from my colleagues in parliament relating to smes. we know very clearly that they're more vulnerable than the big companies because, of course, they're not cybersecurity specialists. it is therefore necessary that the competence centre and the security competence network provide support to smes for access to knowledge and training.
mr president, let me first of all welcome the concern of commissioner phil hogan, but also of the two rapporteurs and all my colleagues, to keep a close watch on the protection of european farmers, agricultural organisations and small and mediumsized enterprises against the unfair and often abusive behaviour of the big players in the product supply chain. unfair competitive practices occur throughout the food supply chain and extend to the marketing of other products. small producers are frequent victims of abusive commercial behaviour involving late payments, cancellations and unilateral or retroactive changes to contracts. expand the scope to include all operators in the supply chain and expand the categories of unfair practices will lead to greater protection for farmers and consumers will be guaranteed quality food at affordable prices. the legal certainty gained will lead to price stability and thus to the strengthening of the agricultural sector, and the interests of over 11 million farmers and 300 000 processors in the european union will be even more and better protected. at the same time, i am certain that this proposal will further convince romanian producers of the need for association in strong organisations. the provision of a four-year review clause will ensure that the provisions of the legislative text are evaluated during the implementation process and that the measures of the directive are consistently applied in the subsidiary legislation of the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the large supermarket chains, with their price-bargaining power and unfair trading practices, represent the shortest and most acute problem in the whole food chain that we have to solve. within the agricultural and food supply chain, there are currently significant inequalities in the bargaining power of suppliers and buyers. all of these lead to unfair trading practices where larger and more powerful trading partners try to impose certain practices or contractual clauses that are to their advantage. some practices could be seen as unfair, even when both parties agree to them. the new european legislation prohibits, for the first time, up to sixteen unfair trading practices unilaterally imposed by one partner in a trading relationship. other practices may be permitted only if agreed in advance, in a clear and unambiguous manner, between the parties concerned. i want everyone to understand that we respect any food distributor, supermarket or hypermarket, but that no matter what the name of that brand is or what country it comes from, everyone must respect national and european legislation and avoid unfair trading practices.
in writing. small farmers and producers are vital to the european economy and food sector. we should have been working to strengthen the position of small producers and farmers in the marketplace long ago. today, i am pleased that, thanks to this report, farmers and producers involved in the supply of food will be protected against unfair practices such as last-minute cancellations of orders, delays in payment and, in particular, unilateral changes to contracts.
in writing. i am pleased that we will finally be passing legislation this week to tackle unfair trading practices in the agri-food sector. unfortunately, only some member states have adopted national legislation on the regulation of unfair practices and this directive is therefore more than necessary. i've been waiting for it and asking for it for a long time. small producers in particular need to be protected in relation to 'retailers'. i strongly believe that this directive will help small farmers to have easier access to supermarkets and that both mandatory contracts and the assurance of timely payments will guarantee a safer and more decent income for this type of farmer. unfortunately, only 21 percent of the final price of a product sold in the supermarket reaches the manufacturer. i hope that after the implementation of this directive, romanian producers will be able to have more negotiating power with supermarkets and that they will enjoy fair revenues.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the eu vietnam voluntary partnership agreement is an important milestone in our relations with vietnam, it is an important step in our battle against illegal logging and deforestation, and it is an important affirmation of the validity of the eu’s longstanding action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. it is the first voluntary partnership agreement signed with a country that is not only an important exporter but also a significant importer of timber. vietnam is at the very centre of the global timber products trade. that is why the voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam, once implemented and fully operational, has great potential for creating a positive impact well beyond vietnamese borders and, at the same time, bringing social, economic and environmental benefits to the vietnamese people. i am pleased to see that the european parliament agrees with this assessment, as shown by the two resolutions we have before us today. i can only repeat some of the important points highlighted in the reports. vietnam has made remarkable progress since the start of the negotiations. one major success has been the open and constructive participation by everyone in vietnam who was relevant to the process, which we hope and expect will continue in the implementation phase. vietnam will introduce mandatory due diligence obligations for its importers. we are proud of this achievement but we are also aware that it will be our duty to ensure that its implementation does not fall short of the high due diligence standards established by our own eu timber regulation. the issue of the legality of imports, especially those from cambodia, has been at the heart of the debates, and rightly so. we will continue to monitor the situation very closely. however, we should remember that import controls are only one element of a comprehensive system designed to ensure timber legality beyond the import points. it also covers harvesting, processing, trade in and export of timber products. ultimately, the success of this voluntary partnership agreement will be measured by the credible and robust implementation of the timber legality assurance system as a whole. there can be no forest law enforcement, governance and trade licensing without this. i welcome the overall positive message on this agreement that comes from parliament’s resolutions. i look forward to our debates on this landmark agreement.
mr president, i would like to underline the fact that vietnam is the european union’s second largest trading partner in the association of south-east asian nations and also one of the most dynamic emerging countries in the east asia region. this agreement follows on from many previous forest law enforcement governance and trade agreements with countries in africa and indonesia, and it builds on the work of the eu timber regulation. as a member of the committee on development, i have to stress here that i support this agreement. the issue of indigenous communities must also be kept in mind. as we know, indigenous communities are often heavily reliant on forests, and very often are the victims of environmental exploitation. it is important to ensure that the agreement complements the eu commitments to environment protection. we do not want these agreements to be seen as a framework for large-scale exploitation of forests. there must be coherence between the agreements and our commitments to prevent mass deforestation.
the committee on petitions has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague mr schöpflin on his work and to stress the good atmosphere of cooperation with commissioner timmermans and the austrian presidency. the result is satisfactory. our aim was to reform the european citizens' initiative and to offer a tool to citizens. from the point of view of the committee on petitions, the contract is fulfilled: the organisers of an initiative will have the opportunity to present their initiatives in detail in a public hearing in parliament. the intention was also to represent all public and private interests. we have not succeeded in convincing the commission and the council to ensure a presence at the highest level of these two institutions. in this respect we have remained somewhat vague. commissioner timmermans and the austrian presidency are looking into the matter and we are still hoping to get the president of the commission or someone of very high rank, for example a minister from the rotating presidency of the council, to attend.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss ms kalniete’s report and to review our relations with russia, keeping in mind the eu’s five guiding principles set out in 2016. in april 2018, eu foreign ministers shared the assessment that the strategic challenges we face in our relations with russia will persist for some time. as highlighted by rapporteur kalniete, central to these challenges remains russia’s violation of international law by the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and the ongoing destabilisation of eastern ukraine. the dangerous increase in tensions in the sea of azov and the strait of kerch is another consequence of the illegal annexation. the foreign ministers reconfirmed the relevance of the five guiding principles agreed in 2016 for eu policy towards russia and highlighted the need to strengthen the resilience of the eu and its neighbours against russian threats, including hybrid threats. the eu has responded promptly and proactively, to promote eu values and interests and increase eu resilience in line with the five principles. high representative mogherini has personally taken every opportunity to raise the eu’s concerns in her meetings with russian foreign minister lavrov, including the need for progress on the implementation of the minsk agreements, the illegal annexation of crimea and the security situation in both the sea of azov and eastern ukraine. in february 2019, eu foreign ministers reiterated the union’s support for the territorial integrity of ukraine and its condemnation of the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia. it was also agreed to provide further eu support for ukrainian regions affected by the situation in the sea of azov. we have also raised with foreign minister lavrov international issues such as syria. we have stressed the need to preserve the ceasefire in idlib and prevent another humanitarian emergency. we are continuing to discuss not only how to support the western workers in their economic development and eu integration efforts but also iran and afghanistan, the need to preserve the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty and the importance of russia’s remaining in the council of europe. the report rightly highlights the fact that the space for civil society in russia is shrinking and human rights defenders face a difficult situation. the eu delegation in moscow maintains ongoing close engagement with the russian authorities on human rights issues, including, among others, the situation of human rights defenders, women’s rights, gender equality, lgbti persons and ukrainian prisoners. eu support has been tireless, through frequent contacts with defenders, high-level demarches, media statements, field visits and trial observation. in order to strengthen contacts with the russian people, the eu continues to maintain an intense level of support. russian citizens continue to be the largest group of recipients of schengen visas and russian students are the largest group of beneficiaries of erasmus+ exchanges. we will explore further ways to continue to convey the message that the european union supports the russian people. we are close to russia and its people. we share centuries of history and culture, and this will not change, despite any disagreement with the russian authorities. russia is an important interlocutor for the eu, and we work well together on various issues, from iran to the arctic. yet we are deeply worried about certain aspects of russia’s behaviour, not only in ukraine and syria but also in salisbury and in relation to the espionage against the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw). following the attack in salisbury, and in line with the council conclusions, we have redoubled our efforts to strengthen eu resilience, including in relation to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear-related risks, and to continue strengthening our capacity to address hybrid threats. a new eu regime against the use and proliferation of chemical weapons was set out in october 2018. in january, the council imposed sanctions under this new regime, and also against the four russian gru (intelligence agency) officials deemed responsible for the attack in salisbury. work is ongoing to establish a new eu sanction regime to counter cyber-attacks as part of our wider diplomatic toolbox. we are looking at strengthening our capacity to address the hybrid threats mentioned in the report, including in the areas of cyber-strategy communication and counter-intelligence. we are also reinforcing our work on tackling disinformation. in december 2018, the eu adopted an action plan against disinformation, responding to the european council’s call for a coordinated response to challenges, particularly with a view to the forthcoming european elections. i know that parliament will hold a specific discussion about this tomorrow. i will take this opportunity to highlight our common interest in retaining a realistic and balanced approach towards russia, as underlined by the report. despite increased tensions, it is essential for the eu to maintain open channels with russia on issues of strategic interest for europe and for the world. we will retain a policy of transparency towards russia and explore cooperation in areas of mutual interest, such as regional connectivity, while also working to support the resilience of partners in the region.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs sandra kalniete, who worked on this report and on the very welcome updating of the incidents between the union and russia from the point of view of international relations. of course, we have had some bad news, which we have already discussed here (for example the situation in the kerch strait and the militarization of the azov sea), but i would like to emphasize another aspect. as the commissioner has mentioned, we are on the eve of the european elections and we have been hearing for some time now about the kremlin's influence in the political affairs of our democracies. this strong presence of russia is feared and this is not a question of political relations in the sense of foreign affairs. i see that the romanian presidency of the council is absent - this is already a habit - and i am therefore addressing the commission. could some points be clarified before the european elections: in which democracies is russia present? with which parties does the kremlin actually work? where is the russian money invested? i think it would be better if we had this information before the european elections and not afterwards, otherwise we would be in a situation similar to that of the united states, where there is a post-electoral crisis due precisely to this uncertainty. commissioner, would you like to clarify these points?
mr president, this year marks the 30th anniversary of the fall of communism in central and eastern europe, which also led to the reunification of the european continent. in romania, unlike other central and eastern european countries, the fall of communism resulted in human casualties, with more than 1 100 people killed in december 1989. what is less well known, however, is that on 2 march 1989 mr liviu cornel babeș set himself on fire on a ski slope in romania in protest against the communist regime and its horrors. on 2 march 1989, mr liviu cornel babeș set himself on fire on the ski slope in brașov, a public place frequented by many foreign tourists, which made it impossible for the communists to conceal this protest gesture. it is very important to remember this martyred hero, because he allowed and opened the series of revolutions of 1989, which led to democracy in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, romania has the honour, and the capacity, to hold the rotating presidency of the council of the european union at a crucial time for the european project. how are we doing? if before president iohannis took office, the opposition, even the former finnish prime minister said that we are not ready, today, at least two months after taking office, all european partners appreciate at least three things. the political will and seriousness of the romanian government and the quality of the solutions identified to unlock key files. in short, the political will to take the european project forward. secondly, we demonstrate impeccable administrative capacity in organising the events and debates of the rotating presidency and the technical training of all the specialists involved. last but not least, we show the true face of our country. romania is a beautiful country, with serious, hardworking and pro-european people. so, we've done our homework, and even though we have four months to go before we hand in the relay, we can say that it's a successful presidency. he can see the opposition, he can see iohannis, between a ski trip and campaigning for another term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 february romania took another important step by adopting the copyright directive in the digital single market, a legislative act that constituted one of the most difficult files under discussion at european level. the agreement of the member states reached by romania at the meeting of the permanent representatives committee demonstrates that romania has managed to reach a fair compromise that will allow the modernisation of the current copyright legislative framework in line with developments in the digital market. by obtaining this agreement, the government of romania demonstrates that, despite all allegations, it is a government capable of performing with brio the tasks of the rotating presidency of the council of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union means access to development, but also respect for all member states. we are all concerned about the future of the european union, and the forthcoming elections must be proof that this project can regain the trust it has received from the people. the european union must mean a better life for its citizens, more freedom, fairness and prosperity, not fear and terror. europeans must feel that they are part of a family, that they share common values, but that their particularities are also respected. i look with confidence to president macron's signal that the union is a project from which all european citizens must benefit and all member states must have the same rights. it is a signal that heralds a union without concentric circles or inequalities between member states, and it is very important that the issue of social security for european citizens is brought back to the fore. only in this way, by listening to everyone, by considering all the arguments, without blocking or threatening, can we put an end to the unfortunate developments in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, we have a debate here, and it's not the first, about gender equality. gender equality is a necessity, it's not a fad, it's not a slogan. we're talking about gender equality in economic institutions, but we have to recognize that there are shared responsibilities. who proposes commissioners for example? it's been said we only have nine female commissioners. the member states! after hearing what my colleague said, i think we need to get back to the point of the matter, which is education. if we still have men in the european parliament in this century who believe that they are predestined professions, we are very low in education and understanding of gender equality. that is why i believe, commissioner, that on the one hand parliament, the commission and the council must show transparency and good faith in promoting women, because we have fewer vice-presidents than, for example, in our own parliament. but at the same time we have to think that, at home, the member states are showing that they are applying what we have. we have enough regulations for gender equality. and i ask you, how many women governors of national banks do we have? how many women do we have as lieutenant governors? how are we gonna get candidates in here? ladies and gentlemen, at home, member states must implement their gender equality policies.
the prime minister of the slovak republic. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few remarks on the topics you have raised during your speeches. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your words of support to the slovak republic. i also want to thank you for your words of appreciation in those areas where the slovak republic has done a great deal of work and made great progress. i want to assure you all that the government under my leadership will not in any way alter our clear pro-european, our clear transatlantic course. although there may be opinions or some other views within the government coalition, i want to guarantee that the government, which is responsible for the foreign policy of the slovak republic, will continue to act as i have said. slovakia belongs to the european union, slovakia has no other place for its existence than the european union, and slovakia is aware that even in the field of security and defence it will never be able to defend itself and wants to and will always be a responsible member of the north atlantic alliance. and i would like to remind you that, even with the excellent economic performance of our country, as mentioned by the czech republic, despite our efforts to improve the quality of life of our people and despite the huge amounts of money we are investing in social measures, we are still able to find the resources to meet our commitment as soon as possible and to meet the 2% of gross domestic product level of spending on our defence and security, unlike many nato member countries. and that's not a common standard in other larger countries that are nato members, let alone the quality and the combat capability of their militaries that we can read about in the media. i want to assure you that nothing will change on this, and if my dutch colleague asked me which side i would choose, i want to assure her that i would choose the right one and i would always stand by the ideas that i put forward in my speech, because i am convinced that they are the only right solution for our country. we touched several and i expected it, because it is very recent also the tragic event related to the murder of a journalist. i want to remind you that before this happened, slovakia belonged, forgive me if i'm wrong, but we belonged to the 17th place in the world, which concerns freedom of speech and press. i repeat seventeen, that is, if we have 28 member countries, you can imagine how many of them - and often many older democracies - have not achieved and are not achieving the level of freedom of speech and press as it was recognized in the slovak republic. i want to emphasize this because perhaps little is known about it and perhaps you do not always know everything about it. we are very sorry for the tragedy that happened, i want to assure you that we will do everything to send a clear signal that we will never tolerate such things in slovakia and that we will do everything so that such crimes are not repeated not only in slovakia, but anywhere in the world, anywhere in europe. and colleague, i don't think that commenting on the resignation of the prime minister and the departure of some ministers in the way that you did, that you said that "well, the prime minister just resigned". the prime minister's resignation is a great political gesture and probably the highest that a leader in a country can do. i want to assure you that we are doing everything we can to punish the perpetrators, and the perpetrators of the murder, along with the person who ordered it, are most likely already in prison awaiting a fair trial. let us all hope that nothing like this will ever happen again on european soil. if we talk about fighting corruption, against the misuse of some subsidy schemes and euro funds, i want to assure you that the slovak republic is also taking many measures here and things that could have happened in slovakia maybe sometime in 2016, 2016, cannot happen now in 2018 or 2019 because we have already reacted to the findings and measures. and i always appreciate very constructive debates with the committee that comes or comes to slovakia, where we can exchange information with each other and where we can tell each other what we have already done and identify areas where we still have to do. and slovakia is a democratic country where our parliamentary system is fully respected, where the power of the government comes from the parliament, where the government answers to the national council and the coalition majority. i would like to remind you that in the area of agricultural subsidies, even if errors do occur, slovakia is the second country in the eu after estonia with the lowest error rate, which reaches the level of 0.5% of all agricultural subsidies. of course, they are very visible, but that does not mean that the whole system is not working, and that is why i want to ask you not to resort to generalizing and evaluating the country as a whole from some partial problems. i would never presume, and i would never presume, to say, based on some specific events in one of your countries, that this is what it looks like everywhere and that this is how these countries work. that would not be fair, and so, as i said, we have to respect each other -- and thank you so much for saying that -- we have to stop dividing into west and east, we have to stop dividing into big and small, we have to stop dividing into north and south, we have to stop dividing into rich and poor. i am very pleased that the honourable member who spoke first said at the end about the elections and used the expression when the demands of the great and the small will be heard. and i fully agree with you, mr president, because the union will only be able to function in unity if the big and the small listen to each other, because that unity in diversity is the key and the foundation on which the eu is built. and in conclusion, let me say one more thing, because you all mentioned that we must go from words to deeds, and i fully agree with you, because unless the citizens of the european union, the europeans, feel that we are not just talking, but actually solving their daily problems, that we are not really dealing with the pseudo-issues that our citizens are not dealing with on a daily basis, but that we are dealing with precisely what annoys them every day and what they need to solve, only then will we be able to maintain the support, the broad support of europeans for the european union project. and in conclusion, i might use a phrase or a phraseology: the citizens of the european union must first of all be able to rely on the european union. the citizens of the european union must first of all rely on the european union, on the fact that we can guarantee their protection, their prosperity, their democratic values. first of all, the citizens of the european union must rely on the european union, and then we must do everything to ensure that everyone around us can rely on the european union. first of all, the european union and the whole project must be believed by those who live in it, and only when we have done this and have confidence and people can rely on the european administration and the european parliament and the european commission, only then can we worry about whether we are good enough for the whole world to rely on us. but first, we need to get inside and do our homework at home.
mr president, mr prime minister, i congratulate you on your speech and your vision for the european union. you are the 18th prime minister or head of state to present your vision. i'm from romania. i am glad that slovakia, a country that is not very far from my country, has such a vision and such a leader. you said that we need an attractive, united, prosperous, secure and fair europe for its citizens. it's perfect, that's my point too. but i want to ask you point blank. you spoke of the cohesion fund. do you think, mr prime minister, that it is right to make the cohesion funds conditional on the functioning of the rule of law? is that in the treaty? what's your position? and the second question. does it seem fair to the citizens of romania and bulgaria that we have a resolution in parliament that these two countries are schengen and in the council there is an opposition for years, since 2011? is it honesty to the citizens? is it fair that we have for two countries the cvm, which is expiring? there is no provision in the treaty for a cvm. what do you think, and how can we explain it now, on the eve of elections in our countries? here, two colleagues here nominated your country and my country, because we have people on the streets, but they said nothing about france, where people have been on the streets for months.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on a european human rights sanctions regime (2019/2580(rsp)).
motions for resolutions to be tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of the committee on foreign affairs and security on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (a8-0091/2019).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would first like to thank the council, the commission and the romanian rotating presidency for their very balanced judgment and assessment on eu—turkey relations. i remain convinced that turkey is an important partner of the eu. the enlargement process has allowed us to significantly influence turkey’s path towards democracy in the last decades – maybe for too long. with regret i can only note the shredding of some of the democratic achievements since 2016. i trust nevertheless that a european turkey is for the benefit of all: the eu, nato and each of our member states. europe should be vigilant and firm when it comes to condemning the violations of human rights, freedom and the rule of law in turkey, while always keeping up a strong, regular and constructive dialogue with this important country. both are imperatives. this also includes an intensive dialogue on alignment of foreign policy, defence and security issues, with a strong focus on counterterrorism and matters of military and strategic importance, as turkey is a very important member of the military alliance, nato. finally, while turkey is the eu’s fifth largest trading partner and europe is by far turkey’s largest economic partner, with germany in the lead, the customs union is still the world one. that is why i am calling on the commission to start the preparatory work for the upgrade of the customs union and on the council to provide the necessary mandate as soon as possible. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – dear colleague, i’m looking at turkey, not with my romanian eyes. to make it clear, we are here the european parliament. i’m looking at the role of turkey from an eu perspective, and no matter whether it is you, me or others, we are looking at turkey. turkey geographically is there, politically is there, militarily is there, and europe can do better if it has stronger, more effective relations with turkey. europe will be much weaker and exposed to much higher risks if we sever relations with turkey completely, as the epp is doing in order to make the turkish issue a hostage to different political agendas. i don’t share your view.
i allowed you to speak more because you promised that this would be the last speech.
mr president, i support the view put forward earlier by the epp group rapporteur, mrs sommer, for a very simple reason: the position adopted today by kati piri was already adopted two years ago and the council ignored us. there are member states blocking the change of position towards turkey. i think, moreover, that we should not delude ourselves, unfortunately there are member states that are attracted to the erdogan model and even the rotating presidency of the council is one of those cases. turkey fascinates and fascinates in the western balkans. i remind you that the only place erdogan could hold an election rally is sarajevo. so we have to see the danger not just for some of the member states, but for our friends in the western balkans. that is why i think the signal from the european parliament must be stronger than in the past, because this history must end. turkey must, of course, leave the negotiating table.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, many thanks for making time to debate the challenge of disinformation and foreign interference, which is more urgent than ever in view of the european elections. thanks to all who contributed and in particular to the rapporteur, anna elżbieta fotyga, for delivering such a timely and helpful recommendation. it closely matches the logic and actions set out in the action plan against disinformation which the high representative and the commission submitted to the european council. the response against hybrid threats should be a joint enterprise. we are doing, and will continue to do, our part, but member states need to step up efforts collectively too, as the european council indicated in its conclusions. the recommendation underlines the centrality of freedom of speech and expression, as well as media pluralism, to resilient democratic societies. indeed, our fundamental values must be at the heart of our response to the challenge of disinformation. this is precisely the spirit in which we have drafted, and now are implementing, the action plan against disinformation. the report calls on the eu institutions to ensure that eu strategic communication becomes a matter of high priority on the european agenda and that the eu institutions and member states work hand in hand in fighting against disinformation. i can assure you that all of this is already happening. however, this is a long—term endeavour which goes beyond this year’s european elections, so we are counting on the european parliament’s continued support, not least in budgetary terms. with the action plan against disinformation, we are increasing the staffing of our three strategic communication task forces to better enable them to detect, analyse and expose disinformation, and raise awareness of its negative impact, as well as – crucially – to improve the way in which we communicate about our values and policies. next week we launch the rapid alert system, as set out in the action plan. the system will make it easier for member states to share assessments, data and best practices in tackling disinformation. this will, ahead of the european elections, bring better situational awareness, make it easier to determine responsibility for attacks and promote joint response, if and when needed, including in terms of awareness raising and increasing our society’s resilience. i appreciate your acknowledgment of the work done so far by the east stratcom task force, both in terms of positive communications and in addressing disinformation. i would also like to praise the other two task forces, for the western balkans and the south. the east stratcom task force had a pioneering function. to date, it has catalogued, and raised awareness of, more than 5 000 cases of disinformation coming from russian sources. unfortunately, the number is likely to rise further, as the problem will not go away anytime soon. it is our collective duty to keep the european elections clean from foreign interference. one way to do it is to raise awareness about the challenge, closely cooperating with the media, civil society organisations and online social media platforms. the european external action service is working on this in full concert with parliament’s and the commission’s services. obviously, the action plan will fully respect the different national approaches, with freedom of expression and freedom of the media as guiding principles of our action. in parallel, we are building better cooperation in tackling foreign interference and hybrid threats with our international partners, such as nato and g7. to give an example, our cooperation with nato already involves sharing assessment reports on the information environment and conducting parallel and coordinated exercises involving hybrid threat scenarios, such as the base exercise. in addition, we should partner more with our neighbours to promote a positive european agenda. investing in the eu’s positive communications and public diplomacy in our neighbourhood is crucial in addressing disinformation and promoting european values and interests. cultural and economic diplomacy and close cooperation between eu member statesʼ missions and the european union delegations on the ground are powerful tools for projecting a positive image of the eu in the world. the best antidote against disinformation is, on the one hand, to promote a healthy media environment and, on the other, to spread the word about the positive impact of eu policies. our citizens, as well as the citizens of our region, have the right to make decisions based on correct information, not on fake news. they have the right to a pluralist media environment and to high—quality information. this is about the quality of our democracies and about the quality of our union.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs fotyga on an excellent report, which has come at just the right time. we have a text that recognises the existence of disinformation campaigns and hostile propaganda and calls on member states to take proactive measures, counter-propaganda measures, effective measures to respond to proven cases of espionage by third countries, an exchange of information between member states, as well as educational investments and, not least, the allocation of their own appropriate funds for istrat.com. the information war is as current as it gets and the union is obliged to act firmly. it should be recalled that already in 2013, valeri gherasimov stated that 'the role of non-military means of achieving political and strategic objectives has increased and, in many cases, exceeded the power of weapons by their effectiveness'. so we're not just talking about promoting lies, we're talking about, above all, annihilating the ability of our own citizens to tell the difference between truth and lies. it is no coincidence that putin recently congratulated those who are working on the design of this propaganda: "i congratulate them for the active, fruitful and talented way in which they work". now, then, is the time for firm action. europe urgently needs firm action and, above all, coordination with nato and g7 partners. otherwise, those who continue to advocate the opposite or promote inaction are endangering the interests of 500 million citizens, endangering the values, security and even the integrity of the european union.
mr. president, to counter propaganda you have to understand its mechanisms. they can be different from country to country. in romania, for example, dughin's theses are disseminated by the foundation of a former socialist prime minister, through lectures by an actor from the national theatre and with the help of a reserve colonel. all this while the current government is itself the source of fake news about the european commission and the european parliament. the cvm is described by ministers as an instrument based on misinformation and the resolutions adopted here as electoral manipulation. it's no wonder, then, that the prime minister, our former colleague dancila, is praised by sputnik every week. let's add that the main tv news stations are controlled by convicted corruptionists who claim that the rule of law is a george soros manipulation. finally, facebook closed 31 pages that manipulated opinion in favor of the romanian social democrats. this is the propaganda that must be counteracted in my country!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by thanking the honourable rapporteur, madam fotyga, for your report, your positive opinion and the consent expressed on the conclusion of the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement on partnership and development. after decades of war, afghanistan stands at a crossroads. last year was the deadliest ever for civilians since the start of the war in 2001. yet 2019 could be the year of peace. in recent years, the european union has engaged even more closely with the government of afghanistan to accompany the country in this delicate moment of its history. this is the goal that we set both in the afghanistan strategy of 2017 and in our latest council conclusions. this agreement represents the first legal framework governing eu-afghanistan relations and is the result of a long negotiation process. the agreement is now being applied provisionally and we already had a promising start to our structured dialogue and cooperation. two bilateral meetings took place in 2018 where we discussed a number of key issues that we have agreed together with our afghan friends. these include human rights, gender issues and good governance, development cooperation, trade, regional cooperation and migration. on all of these files, afghanistan wants to make substantial progress for the benefit of its citizens and we europeans have offered assistance and support. we paid special attention to the situation of afghan refugees in the region. the european union remains committed to working towards finding a comprehensive and durable regional solution by supporting the predictable, safe, orderly and dignified return of afghan nationals residing in neighbouring countries and to continuing to implement the eu’s regional programmes on migration and forced displacement. in your report, you draw a realistic picture of the situation in afghanistan. i would like to elaborate a little more on the current developments related to peace. the situation on the ground remains worrying. innocent afghan men, women and children continue to suffer from this conflict. yet there are good reasons to hope that this year could finally bring good news for the country. president ghani’s peace offer for the taliban in february 2018, just a little over a year ago, has created an unprecedented opportunity for peace, and since september last year, the us and the taliban have been negotiating international troop withdrawals and counter-terrorism commitments. we know that lasting peace will take time. a quick agreement is not necessarily a lasting one. this is why the european union is committed to supporting afghanistan before, during and after a peace agreement to ensure that this will be sustainable. last november, at the geneva ministerial conference on afghanistan, hosted by the united nations, high representative mogherini made a concrete five-point offer to afghanistan about how the european union could support a peace deal. first, we can help make the peace process more inclusive. second, we can assist with reforms, including in the security sector. third, we can help with the reintegration of former fighters and their families. fourth, we can act as a guarantor of a possible peace agreement, and fifth, we can promote regional trade and connectivity. since then, we have been working closely with our afghan partners to better define our assistance. we are launching a dedicated peace mechanism to help repair and build capacities for inclusive negotiations. as the high representative said in geneva, the afghan people are asking to move forward and there is no going back. during the coming months, we will continue to work together with the international community to support a better electoral process for this year's presidential elections in afghanistan. as you rightly pointed out in your report, the eu committed a large amount of funding in terms of development aid. at a brussels conference on afghanistan in october 2016, the eu and its member states pledged eur 5 billion, and this pledge is currently being operationalised. let me also mention the fact that the eu development support for afghanistan has a strong focus on peace and state building and supports afghanistan in its regional contacts. with other development partners, we are exploring how to adapt the existing development programmes to a peace scenario. this would include supporting post-conflict reforms, social cohesion at community level, cross-border trade and regional connectivity. afghanistan has a unique chance for peace. we europeans will do everything in our power to help the people of afghanistan turn this opportunity into a truly sustainable and lasting peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the cooperation agreement on partnership and development confirms the eu commitment to afghanistan’s future development during the decade of transformation – 2014 to 2024 – and lays the foundations for the union’s continued support for the country in implementing key reforms. through the report i’m also trying to flag up the point that, despite the significant progress made, afghanistan still faces substantial challenges that require further stronger, longer force to safeguard and build on these joint achievements. i also put emphasis on a more constructive dialogue on human rights, in particular the rights of women, of children, and of ethnic and religious minorities, which are essential elements of this agreement. the agreement aims to develop eu—afghan relations in a growing range of mutually beneficial areas, such as rule of law, fighting terrorism and extremism, improved governance, achieving sustainable peace in development, combating terrorist financing, countering narcotics smuggling, fostering inclusive and sustainable economic growth and social and rural development and addressing global challenges such as climate change. afghanistan needs to refrain from involving proxies in internal rivalries. neighbouring countries should contribute to the stability of afghanistan instead of undermining it.
in writing. – as rapporteur for opinion in the committee on budgets for the dossier regarding the visa information system, i salute the need to improve eu security through strengthened visa procedures and residence permit applications. the visa information system has been established by the council to serve as the technology solution to exchange visa data between member states. it provides visa-issuing authorities with key information on applicants for short-stay schengen visas. however, in 2016, the commission outlined the need for the eu to strengthen and improve its it systems, data architecture and information exchange in the area of border management, law enforcement and counter-terrorism and emphasised the need to improve the interoperability of it systems. it also identified the need to address information gaps on third-country nationals holding a long-stay visa. nevertheless, i would also like to express my concern that we should firstly focus on strengthening the current schengen area and its external borders. while romania and bulgaria have partial access to the visa information system in the schengen area, the two states have to join schengen as full members as soon as possible, which i am confident will bring a positive contribution to the overall security of the eu.
in writing. in recent years, the security threats facing europe have intensified and diversified, taking the form of terrorist attacks, new types of organised crime and cybercrime. all these internal security challenges and complex external threats cannot be addressed by member states individually and without eu financial and technical support. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external action and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external action. the internal security fund was established with the aim of facilitating cross-border cooperation and information exchange between law enforcement officials of the member states and other relevant authorities. the fund shall aim to enhance cross-border operational cooperation in the prevention, detection and investigation of cross-border crime and support efforts to build the capacity needed to prevent these forms of crime, including terrorism, in particular through increased cooperation between public authorities, civil society and private partners in all member states. the proposal includes restrictions on financing to third countries and eliminates financing for military purposes and the possibility of purchasing arms with eu funds in emergency situations.
in writing. we had the debate on the preparation of the european council meeting of 21-22 march 2019 and the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu. yet more than 80% of the discussion was about brexit. for two years we have spent thousands of hours on this subject which has created a crisis in the eu. prolonging the crisis has negative effects on both sides. european leaders and european institutions need to learn from brexit. eu leaders need to understand that a different management approach is needed in the future, one that takes subsidiarity into account. and as the council representative said, no one should be left behind. we need cohesion, industrial and social policy, respect for democratic and constitutional decisions in the member states. we need a fair market for all european citizens. only in this way can we secure a future for the eu. the council is due to discuss important topics such as the economy, the new multiannual financial framework, the future of cohesion policy, the schengen area - enlargement with the countries that meet the conditions of the regulation, romania and bulgaria. greater transparency and the avoidance of double standards applied by the commission and the council can strengthen the future of the eu.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. of course, it could be more ambitious in some respects, but what is important to me is the direction it is taking, which is that the european union is addressing disabled people, disabled citizens, and wants the products and services that are put on the european market to be usable and useful for these people as well. i think that's an extremely important idea, an important signal. that is why i supported this report, even though, as i said, i could imagine that in some respects it would be more ambitious and more accommodating to disabled people. this is a good direction and perhaps the next european commission, the next european parliament will clarify this report and create even more conditions for people with certain disabilities to have better access to and use products placed on the european market.
mr president, the visa information system, which we call the vis, helps to issue visas and helps the authorities responsible for asylum, visas, borders and migration to check third-country nationals coming to the european union quickly and efficiently. the new vis regulation adapts the rules on the interoperability of databases, the union's information systems, precisely to collaborate directly, efficiently and intelligently, so to talk to each other very quickly, in seconds. protecting the union's external borders, managing migration and improving internal security are essential for all of us, we know that. the new regulation introduces the obligation to fingerprint children from the age of six, thus verifying the identity of a child applying for a visa. it's also going to help us track down kids who are stolen, for example, and trafficked.
the union internal security fund was established in 2014 to facilitate cross-border cooperation and information exchange between member states. this union internal security fund will continue to exist and be fed by european money also in the period 2021 2027, precisely because internal security and the fight against organised crime are very important for all european citizens. i must point out that there has been a recent increase in cross-border crime. so this money needs to be spent on strengthening the external borders and, above all, on buying that equipment that can scan the travel documents, the passports, etc., for every eu or non-eu citizen entering and leaving the european union. we're talking about scanning into databases, which is done very quickly, in a minute, and scanning the visual image of the face. all of this means protection, and for all of this there is money in this security fund, which the member states have to spend. unfortunately, not all member states have spent it.
madam president, i would like to say to madam commissioner that we all agree here that the transatlantic relationship is facing an important number of challenges and disruptions in the short term. nevertheless, i remain convinced that the long-term fundamentals remain, and have to remain strong. it is important today for the eu to take all necessary safeguard measures to protect the eu internal market, our workers and our industries. that means being firm and rapid in counteracting any new tariffs and measures taken by the us administration, but at the same time to do our utmost to appease the tensions and avoid a trade war, which could escalate and heavily impact on both sides. we know well that there is no better way to avoid new tariffs than through dialogue and negotiations. this is why i trust the commission to do the right thing and i welcome the efforts of president juncker and commissioner malmström and support starting talks for limited sectorial negotiations with the united states. i will conclude with one question, madam commissioner. if we say no to the talks with the united states, with whom will we say yes in the future?
madam president, madam commissioner, distinguished colleagues, surely, we have many reasons to be angry at the trump administration. personally, i fought very hard to bring in a lot of amendments to ttip. that ttip fell, but the relationship of the european union with the united states cannot be ignored. we have to think big, what we lose and what we gain. i trust the commissioner and i think that, given the limited mandate, we should open negotiations. only those battles are lost that you never start, said a great writer from my country, mircea eliade. commissioner, you have to take into account what was said here. we need conformity assessment, we need product standards that are recognised, we need to avoid being unilaterally charged tariffs on certain product groups and i very much believe that you can take up this task and report to us what is happening with this market. because we can't with russia not have it, with turkey not have it, with china not have it, with the united states of america not have it! how do we develop the single market? i wish you success and hope you pass this negotiating mandate.
madam president, the establishment of a comprehensive strategy to address the issue of non-performing exposures is an essential goal for the union in its attempt to make the financial system more resilient. while addressing the non-performing loans (npls) is primarily the responsibility of banks and the member states, there is also a clear union dimension to reducing the current high stock of non-performing exposures, as well as to preventing any expressive build-up of npls in the future, and to preventing the margins of system-wide risks in the non-banking sector. i consider that an integrated financial system will enhance the resilience of the european monetary union to adverse shocks, while at the same time reducing the need for public risk sharing. nevertheless, this proposal is crucial as it aims to ensure sufficient loss coverage by banks for future npls by amending the existing capital requirement regulation.
mr president, from the outset i have stressed that if the european union wishes to create a financial instrument to provide assistance to member states in financial difficulty, then the rational solution is to transfer the european stability mechanism from the intergovernmental framework to the legal framework of the european union. it is a positive fact that both the commission proposal and the report we are debating today support this transformation. i regret that the council has decided not to discuss the commission's proposal. i would like to stress that i support the proposal in the report that this new european stability mechanism should also be open to member states which are not in the euro area but are obliged to take the necessary measures to join the euro area, but with one amendment: that this possibility should be offered only to member states which have taken the decision to adopt the euro and which are implementing the programmes agreed to this end, both with the european commission and with the european central bank. the report also welcomes the proposal that this new european stability mechanism should also be given the backstop function for the single resolution fund, so that we can also strengthen and develop the second pillar of the banking union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr pieper, on reaching interinstitutional agreement on one of the most important files on the future of air transport at european level. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 was signed on behalf of ryanair and ams in 2005. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation policy. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. as regards air transport at european level, it must be carried out in an environment characterised by open and fair competition, taking into account, however, very important aspects such as working conditions, quality of service standards and environmental protection. finally, as co-chair of the european tourism development intergroup, i would like to send a message to european companies and draw their attention to their own business practices, which often cause them to lose out to companies from third countries. my recommendation is that they should no longer discount the quality of the services they provide for an additional profit to the detriment of passengers' interests and maintain a balanced value for money. europe must maintain its global leadership in terms of both quality of service and quality standards, as well as in terms of passenger safety and the social conditions offered to employees.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's analysis shows that the sustainable development goals must be and remain the main objective of the european union. we need to do a thorough analysis of the policies that we've had. we either have the results that citizens want in terms of cohesion or we don't. we need to see what the policy outcomes are and we need to see whether, indeed, the financial effort and the work done by us, by national parliaments and national governments has led to the eradication of poverty, has led to a better income situation for citizens. no one must be left behind, it's been said here. we must then understand that in management, analysis requires us to make adjustments to our policies and, therefore, i believe that we must take into account, commissioner, in the policies we will make in the future, 2030 is not very far away, the concrete situations on the ground, the more remote areas, the poorer areas and, of course, take into account subsidiarity and proportionality.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the condemnation of the sakharov prize winner has provoked international public opinion. my colleagues have spoken of the truly incredible punishments he is being given. this condemnation shows that the iranian government is increasing its repression of activists and human rights defenders. my group has recently held a hearing in the droi subcommittee on eight environmental activists imprisoned in iran, who are also mentioned in our resolution. we are deeply concerned about these developments and i would like to stress, as i have already done in this house, that respect for human rights must really be at the heart of our relations with iran. i hope that commissioner mimica will convey this message to the high representative. finally, i would like to emphasize one point: we have asked for an urgent ad hoc mission of the droi subcommittee to iran, and i hope that this mission will be authorized.
mr president, cihan özkan, hüseyin günakan, kahraman demirez, mustafa erdem, osman karakaya, yusuf karabina and many others are journalists or teachers of turkish origin who were kidnapped last august and september from kosovo, the republic of moldova and other countries. in total, last year alone, in 2018, there are 12. obviously, all these kidnappings were done on the orders of erdogan, with the complicity of the authorities of these countries. i saw the footage of teachers being brutally arrested, right in front of the school, right in front of the house, right on the street, right in the classroom. they were kidnapped and taken to the airport, put on a plane and sent, automatically, to turkey, without any extradition process and without any extradition request, just kidnapping. thank you to all of you who signed letters with me to save these people.
in writing. numerous studies make it clear that the number of negative consequences outweighs the number of benefits to justify not changing the seasonal clock. this creates additional costs and administrative burdens for certain economic sectors, in particular for transport. for example, if we stopped changing the time twice a year, we would help improve the long-term planning of freight as well as passenger services. it is true that there is a divergence at the moment between the western states, which prefer to keep summertime, while the northern european states prefer wintertime, but i think it is essential that the member states find a compromise solution that is to everyone's advantage. the european executive understood that there needs to be harmonisation at european level in this respect and i believe that the abolition of this practice will be positive for all member states.
madam president, commissioner, commissioner, it is clear from today's debate that this is a very important matter that we must regulate. you can see that there are different positions even within the same political group. it all started with the idea that we should have, of course, freedom of speech. at the same time, we must have protection for the author and reward for creation. we need a digital marketplace, we need, at the same time, a creative industry. we can't do without culture, and people of culture must be rewarded. of course, it's not the optimal version of article 11, 13, 14. there's been a lot of work, we've all talked to both sides. i think these articles should be voted on so that we can take a step forward and, of course, consider improving this directive. but if we do nothing, i don't think the digital market and copyright protection are making any money. and therefore i urge that these articles, which were amended by...
in writing. this directive aims to modernise and further harmonise the eu copyright framework to take account of technological developments and new distribution channels for protected content. the directive focuses in particular on digital and cross-border uses, exceptions and limitations, facilitation of licensing, rules ensuring a functioning market for the exploitation of works. member states will have to provide press publishers with the right to protection for the online use of their publications by information society service providers and platforms. we welcome the balanced approach to future copyright rules in the digital age and, in particular, to ensure that artists and authors are fairly remunerated for their work. this will allow authors to be remunerated for both direct and indirect income derived from the use of their work, benefit from new transparency obligations and allow trade unions and other representative organisations to initiate dispute resolution mechanisms on their behalf. the member state should ensure that authors and performers receive regularly and at least annually up-to-date and comprehensive information on the exploitation of their works concerning all income generated and remuneration due.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to praise mr cozzolino for the excellent cooperation and work on his report. as a former rapporteur for the cohesion fund, i’m certainly not happy about the budget the commission has proposed for the cohesion fund, but i think that the text negotiated by the rapporteur for the two funds is the best possible one under the conditions, and i call on everyone to vote down any amendments that go against the negotiated text. when i was the rapporteur i gave a very environmentally-friendly imprint. today, i have not changed my belief, and let me say that all attempts aimed at impeding investments that could make some activities like co-generation and district heating more efficient are simply irrational. at the same time, when it comes to investment in gas to replace more—polluting fossil fuels, it is surprising that such calls are coming from colleagues from countries that benefited from the funds for such activities and now want to prevent other member states to do the same while, at the same time, they are promoting gas infrastructure like nord stream 2.
mr president, the main objective of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund is to increase economic and social solidarity while reducing the disparities between the levels of development of the various regions. but at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must be fair to each other and recognize the beneficial effects of these policies in both eastern and western europe. in the current context, it is of the utmost importance that erdf investments contribute to the development of large networks of high-speed digital infrastructure, to the promotion of green and sustainable multimodal urban mobility. research and innovation in any field, attracting private investors, building strong partnerships and transferring results to the field must remain top priorities of eu policies. it is essential to strengthen cooperation between partners, including at local and regional level, within the same member state or across borders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, this is a directive we have been waiting for for a very long time, because the main objective was to contribute to the growth of the digital market and certainly the statistics show that most smes and consumers are faced with differences in quality and differences in national rules in electronic commerce, and certainly this directive will allow the member states to harmonise and ensure, on the one hand, consumer protection and, on the other, the development of cross-border trade and the development of electronic commerce. there are a lot of good proposals - what happens to the product that is not in conformity, what are the rules and the possibility of compensation for the buyer - so i think it is good to vote on this proposal for a directive and, obviously, afterwards, it is important for the member states to assimilate the directive for the development of the digital market.
mr. president, money laundering costs us 110 billion euros every year. that's 1% of the gdp of the european union. in addition, 70% of money laundering cases are cross-border cases, and globally, costs amount to over eur 1.5 million in cross-border cases. the parliament and the council adopted last year the fifth anti-money laundering directive. the union therefore has a legislative framework to combat this phenomenon and the deadline for transposition is january 2020. romania has not yet transposed even the fourth anti-money laundering directive, and the commission has started infringement proceedings against romania both for being late and for now transposing it without complying with the provisions of the fourth directive. the government and parliament of romania must urgently adopt legislation that correctly, timely and fully transposes european directives. otherwise we cannot function in the european union, unless we all transpose correctly, completely, the european directives.
mr president, conflict of interest is the elephant in the room, but the european court of auditors has not made any conflict of interest report since 2012, when it did at my request and did not make it public. it's about agencies working with industries. so for seven years, the court of auditors has not, i repeat, made any report on conflicts of interest, at least on agencies that work with industries. it's very important. whenever new medicines, new products, new helicopters, new aircraft, new designs, new seeds are brought to market, all of these have to be approved by the european agencies. and if there are industry experts working there, as is often the case, obviously the tests are not objective. we need objective and independent tests. more recently, a new trend has emerged: people make self-declarations of no conflict of interest at these agencies. i mean, i declare that i'm not in conflict of interest, i - expert, or i - member of the management board. how can i evaluate myself? the assessment must be made by a... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, despite the progress made in recent years, some 500 000 lives are lost annually in europe because of air pollution. moreover, the current climate protests in europe's capitals send a clearer and clearer message - that we need to be more ambitious at home and set an example to follow globally, of course, without jeopardising the competitiveness of our industry in the european union. it is an important step that, following interinstitutional negotiations with the council, parliament has managed to secure an agreement to reduce emissions by 37,5% by 2030 for new cars and by 31% for cars. i am convinced that these ambitious quotas will encourage innovation among car manufacturers, but we need to ensure that the incentive mechanism for these low-emission vehicles as well as for zero-emission vehicles is functional.
the rapporteur. mr president, those who have followed our discussions in parliament on the commission's proposal on this matter closely will not be surprised to learn that i was the one of the four co-rapporteurs who was, from the outset, the most sceptical about the idea of a single instrument. i would like to briefly return to the reasons for this scepticism. our parliament expressed a very clear position a little over a year ago, calling for dedicated instruments for pre-accession, development, neighbourhood and humanitarian aid, because of the financial and political specificities of these areas of union intervention. the european commission, with the exception of the pre-accession instrument, has not taken this position into account at all and has presented the proposal under discussion today, which brings together some 10 existing instruments and programmes. moreover, the european people's party (epp) in january 2018 spoke out against the idea of a single instrument for external action in no uncertain terms, stressing that it would be only the illusion of simplification leading to permanent internal quarrels over which area was the most important. the epp also stressed that our european neighbourhood policy, which has a direct impact on the lives of european citizens, would be undermined or even disrupted without a specific financial instrument to support it. despite these reservations, my group and i have been engaged in good faith and in a responsible manner in the work of improving the commission's proposal. this is a long-term task, given the exceptional complexity of the case, which calls for complicated arbitrage between different types of interests and objectives that are brought together within the same instrument. this is a real revolution in the way the european union's external action will be financed. this revolution also responds to repeated requests from our parliament, particularly in terms of more flexibility to respond to unforeseen challenges. but the commission proposal lacked important precisions on governance and the role of the european parliament, clear and precise definition of objectives for the different policies covered, and financial guarantees on the allocation and use of funds. through cooperation between the political groups, we have succeeded in proposing a coherent framework to ensure an increased role for the european parliament, including through the intelligent use of delegated acts. we have set clear and ambitious objectives for the different areas of external action, with a focus on human rights and the promotion of democracy. finally, as regards budgetary measures, since this is the heart of our discussion, we have increased the total amount of the instrument by 4.4%. we have introduced guarantees for geographical financial allocations for the neighbourhood and sub-saharan africa. we also increased allocations for human rights, civil society and global challenges, in parallel with a reduction in the reserve from €10.2 billion to €7 billion. finally, i regret the attitude of the green group in the vote in the committee on foreign affairs. we have accepted more than 250 amendments from this group. the four of us shared a total of 380 copies. despite the fact that we have taken up an extremely large number of amendments (unprecedented for a report voted on here), the green group abstained. i don't understand this attitude. this is the all-time record and you want to break this instrument? i'd like to hear your answer. what do you want to do with this report, this instrument?
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to clarify the amendment i tabled on behalf of the ppe group to the motion for a resolution accompanying the report. this is not to belittle what we have achieved together over the last eight months, but we have managed to improve things in terms of the neighbourhood. there is a 24% increase in funding, and more generally we have strengthened the policy framework for neighbourhood, which remains a priority in our action. we have also improved the results-based approach, which is one of the central pillars of the european neighbourhood policy. however, it is also necessary to be realistic and to state the facts clearly: the door remains open for a separate neighbourhood instrument. we know very well that the member states remain divided in the council on this issue and i believe that all options must be kept on the table for the next parliament, which will go to the negotiations, because, whether we like it or not, the instrument of neighbourhood, development cooperation and international cooperation remains for the time being a colossus with feet of clay. and i would also like to add that during the negotiations our colleagues in the committee on development tried to channel this whole process into a single development logic. they have even proposed extraordinary things, as mr panzeri mentioned, such as the elimination of the countries of northern africa from the southern neighbourhood policy and the retention of only the countries of the middle east and a small part of the west. the idea of breaking a policy with the help of an instrument is unacceptable, but they have tried everything to take over the idea of international cooperation and to diminish the meaning of foreign policy and neighbourhood policy. i think we should always take a political perspective. neighbours are more important than anything from the point of view of these financial instruments, i cannot ignore this, i cannot sacrifice our neighbours, europe's neighbours, for an abstract interest and to have more money to fuel dreams without pragmatism.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i thank you for continuing the debate we had earlier, and i am glad, first of all, that the ipa has escaped the temptation to put everything into this single instrument. a year ago, my friend mr panzeri campaigned to get the ipa into the big instrument as well. fortunately, we are not there and our two colleagues, ignacio salafranca and knut fleckenstein, have done an excellent job on this important matter. the pre-accession funds are a long-term investment, notably in the european future of the western balkans. it is essential that funding is refocused to drive clear and irreversible progress on reforms in key sectors linked to the copenhagen criteria. i support the overall philosophy of the report and the replacement of financial assistance conditionality, major changes in the approach of ipa iii, by the adoption of the principle of fair sharing. this is an incentive for the countries concerned to take their responsibilities more seriously. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for taking into account the amendments i tabled on two points, namely the increased involvement of civil society and support in the beneficiary countries for the deinstitutionalization of children.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, we have been witnessing a new dynamic in recent weeks, starting on 22 february, with massive nationwide demonstrations in algeria. these were prompted by the announcement that the incumbent president bouteflika would run for a fifth mandate in the presidential elections, initially set for 18 april. since then, demonstrations have continued virtually every day and have grown in size. besides opposing a new mandate for president bouteflika, the protesters are demanding a broad reform of algeria’s political system. notwithstanding their massive scale, demonstrations have been largely peaceful and the response by the security services has been very measured. official communication from the government in recent weeks, following the nomination of a new prime minister and deputy prime minister, stresses the necessity to consult and listen to the people with a view to introducing significant reforms. algeria is a key partner for the european union. we have important political, economic and people—to—people interests in that country and in that region, where algeria is a stabilising factor. our bilateral relations have progressed positively in recent years and we expect that to continue. the high representative met minister of state lamamra in brussels on 7 march to discuss the situation in the country before his subsequent appointment as deputy prime minister and foreign minister, and i also had the opportunity to talk to him. demonstrations have so far been peaceful and the response by security services has been measured. this is highly commendable and restraint should continue. as you all know, the situation is currently very fluid. we have been following today’s developments very closely. it’s key now that there should be a positive response to the people’s aspirations: the call for reform of governance, for greater political openness and for more economic and social opportunities, especially for the young. any process has to be transparent and include all sections of algerian society. during this period, it’s important to remember that it’s for the algerians to decide for themselves and among themselves how to make this transition happen. on the eu side, we should encourage a free, fair and inclusive election of algeria’s next president to be organised within a reasonable timeframe. the european union is ready to support the election with technical expertise and will consider fielding an electoral observation mission if, of course, algeria requests this and if the conditions of the process are met. i count on parliament’s support in this regard. we should also support the call for a broad reform and transition process. a national conference could be the platform for discussing this as long as it is generally inclusive, representative and designed to ensure political legitimacy. it’s important to make quick progress on this. citizens’ initiatives for a peaceful solution are also circulating and we understand there is willingness on both sides to define a common way forward. we hope that the consensus crystallises around a road map for the transition, as well as who should be in charge of carrying it out. whatever process is followed, it must be one that is accepted by algerians as expressing their will and, as we have stated publicly, the european union stands ready to accompany algeria in this process if the algerians request it. the union should continue to support algeria in its socio-economic reforms and the shaping of perspectives that match the desires and ambitions of the population, especially the young. all this will be done in full respect of algeria’s sovereignty and in a spirit of partnership, as it is defined in our neighbourhood policy concept. the events over the past four weeks have tested political maturity in algeria and we count on all concerned to face up to the call for change and to bring a peaceful transition to fruition.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, tens of thousands of demonstrators are in the streets of algiers, and algeria in general, every friday, to express the simple and legitimate demand for a credible political transition and the departure of president bouteflika, who has not been able to govern the country for a long time. unfortunately, the authorities do not seem to be listening to the people because their solution to the crisis is not one. extending the president's term, which legally expires on april 28, and going outside the constitutional framework by suspending the electoral process goes against the demands of algerians. the national conference proposed by the government was overwhelmingly rejected by the opposition and civil society. moreover, defections are increasing in the circles of power and the army general staff is sending contradictory messages, as we have seen this afternoon. the international tour of the algerian authorities, in an attempt to reassure their partners of their ability to manage this crisis, is further evidence of the failure of the transition proposed by the bouteflika family. algeria is in a stalemate. it is a major partner of the european union, a guarantor of regional stability, which could be maintained by respecting the rights and freedoms of algerians through the establishment of a transparent and inclusive system of governance. the european union, like the algerians, is waiting for a strong gesture from the authorities. the illusion of change will not do the trick, a radical break with the current system is needed.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr schaffhauser, i have a question because we have seen you here for five years supporting with real passion all the positions of the kremlin. has there been, in the last five years, a position of mr putin and his regime that you have not supported? do you disagree? tell us something, give us a little detail, or are you really 120% with mr. putin and the kremlin? tell us the truth.
mr president, the arab spring has produced mixed results. i do not think it is at all possible to compare the developments in the region with the anti-communist revolutions of the late 1980s or with the orange revolution, as the kremlin voice suggested a little earlier. at the maghreb level, we see that there are countries which are persevering in their efforts to democratize, such as tunisia. there are also other countries struggling to implement credible and sustainable reforms. we therefore do not have the synchronisation of the democratization process that we saw, for example, in the countries of western and central europe at the end of the 1980s. i believe that our union has a major role to play in supporting the emerging democratic movements and in accompanying economic developments which provide young people with opportunities for professional integration. our strategy has been more or less successful, depending on the country and the context, and i am convinced that conditionality is the right approach. we must continue to put respect for human rights and the rule of law at the forefront of our relations with our partners. but we also have things to improve: our coherence, including the tendency of member states to act outside the european framework whenever we are faced with a crisis, for example with russia, and the unwavering support for all authoritarian regimes in the region. our message needs to be more convincing. the european union has a lot of cards to play, especially with regard to the reconstruction of syria, which cannot be done without our financial and political support.
chief negotiator for brexit. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this important debate, we, together with president juncker and vice-president katainen, listened to each and every one of you with great attention. i would like to say a few words of thanks to you, mr president. on thursday, at the invitation of president donald tusk, to whom i personally thank, i once again took part in and attended the european council debates, which are being discussed this morning, and i can once again testify to this extraordinary negotiation, linked to brexit, to the seriousness and responsibility of each and every european leader around this table, and to the serious, responsible, objective way in which they decide and work on this negotiation. it is now almost two years since i was given the task of conducting these negotiations by president juncker and president tusk, with the confidence of parliament. for two years, ladies and gentlemen, and i want to say it today, i have, like you, and this has been the main point of vigilance of parliament, considered that the question of the security of citizens' rights should be our priority, as has been said in turn, in particular by guy verhofstadt, manfred weber, roberto gualtieri, udo bullmann or gabriele zimmer just now, and others. as president tusk said, the priority will remain the protection of the rights of the citizens, those some 4.5 million people, 3.5 million european citizens who live and work in the united kingdom and who, mr farage, participate in your country's economy, and 1.5 million british citizens who live and work in either of our countries. this security of citizens' rights will remain our priority, mr verhofstadt, whether in the hope of an agreement we are waiting for, or in the event of a no deal, which we do not want but for which we are preparing. and we will find a way to guarantee those rights. for two years now we have been working with the same respect for the united kingdom. i have admiration for your country, ladies and gentlemen, as i have often said here. for its history, for its culture, for a number of men and women who have led it throughout history, but also for the solidarity which you have shown in the most difficult hours of the 20th century. so we work with that respect. and in this notion of respect, mr farage, i obviously include respect for the sovereign decision of a majority of british citizens. we respect this decision, even though we regret it, and we have been implementing it patiently, rigorously, conscientiously, methodically for the last two years, that is what we are doing. mr farage, no one in brussels is trying to steal brexit and steal the vote of the british people. but it is not in brussels that we make the choice to leave the european union, it is you who make that choice and it is you who must take responsibility and face the consequences of those decisions, no one else. so for two years we have been implementing the decision, with all due respect, and i want to say to mr legutko, who is not here to listen to me, that at no time in the last two years, at no time in the last two years, there has been in our attitude and in my attitude the slightest trace of a desire to humiliate or take revenge on the united kingdom, quite the contrary. for two years i have been telling president mcguinness, who was just taking the chair, but also sean kelly, mr nicholson, whom i always listen to carefully, mrs anderson and mrs dodds, that we are patiently seeking concrete and operational solutions to the most serious problem created by brexit, which is obviously in ireland, and the risk to the peace and stability of this island to which we have contributed for some twenty years, since the good friday agreement, that is what we are doing, nothing else. mr. nicholson, just a few words in the case of a no deal. in all scenarios, the good friday agreement will continue to apply. the united kingdom will remain a co-guarantor of that agreement and is expected to uphold it in spirit and in letter. the commission is ready to make additional resources available to ireland technical and financial to address any additional challenges. the respect of the good friday agreement will therefore remain the line to avoid a hard border, but of course checks will have to be carried out somewhere, in one way or another, because it is a matter of respect for the internal market, that is to say our internal market, but also respect for the british internal market, mr farage. we have been working on this negotiation for two years and it is still a negative negotiation. there is no added value to brexit. no one, not even mr farage, has been able to demonstrate to me the added value of brexit. no one is! this is a negative, lose-lose negotiation! we must therefore intelligently come to an agreement to limit the consequences of this negotiation. then, somehow, we must get it done as soon as possible because, as mrs rodriguez said earlier, there is a lot to be done beyond and outside of brexit on the positive agenda that president tusk has mentioned and that president katainen will mention later. that's what counts! in this positive agenda, beyond the divorce which we want as orderly as possible, i attach great importance to building a strong and lasting relationship with the united kingdom, a great country which will remain in any case a friend, an ally and a partner. i would conclude by saying that the european council's decision was taken in good conscience, to deal with this sometimes unpredictable situation in the house of commons. you must understand this decision as the will of the europeans that the united kingdom can now, in full sovereignty, make its own decisions and face its own responsibilities. it is up to the uk to choose, one way or another. and what the european council decided, with this double decision to postpone the elections to april and then to may, is precisely the opportunity for the united kingdom to take up its responsibilities. it is now up to the individual who wants to leave to choose his future and finally to bear the consequences of his decisions. because this negotiation is not a trade negotiation, it is not a question of bargaining or making concessions on either side. that was never our mindset. this process is an exit process. the united kingdom is leaving the european union, it wants to leave the single market, it wants to leave the customs union, taking responsibility and bearing the consequences. even if he can still stay, as president tusk has said, everything is possible until 11 april. i am saying that there are consequences to this choice and that the united kingdom must assume them with full responsibility and sovereignty. this is the possibility offered to it by the european council decision.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, even though the debate has concentrated almost purely on the brexit issue, i will not comment more on that, because our chief negotiator, mr barnier, has already explained everything relevant so elegantly. i would like to comment on a couple of other points which were also part of the european council agenda, namely industrial policy and especially the eu-china relations. very briefly, on industrial policy, the commission has already set up a working group. it’s kind of an expert group which has been working on the future of the industrial policy of europe. the target is 2030 and this group has already been working more than a year. i am co-chairing it together with commissioner bieńkowska and we will come out with concrete proposals by the summer. so this paper is at the disposal of the next commission and the next parliament. the aim is to identify the most crucial points, how to modernise the european industry. another very important topic is the eu-china relationship. we appreciate a lot that the council paid attention to our proposals and endorsed many of our proposals because the eu and china are strategic partners and strategic partners usually do things together, not only speak together on the issues. this situation is currently a little bit problematic. we share many views with the chinese authorities on various policy issues and we have also done some things together, but there are many issues which we have mostly been talking about, but not doing that much and this happens mostly in the field of economy. china is a political superpower – a foreign policy superpower, a military superpower. it’s also a technological leader. it’s a business leader in many areas and that’s why there is no point to say that china is only a developing country. china for sure is a developing country in many respects, but taking into account its power in the world’s economy today we have all the reasons to expect reciprocity. this is what the eu is expecting from the chinese side – a strategic partnership based on reciprocity, especially when we talk about market access policies. the european council also asked the commission to come with concrete proposals on how to improve our business and economic relationship with china, and this is under our work at the moment. we are preparing, for instance, state aid rules to third country acquisitions. as everybody knows, we have very strict state aid rules when it comes to intra—eu acquisitions, but the same rules don’t apply with a third country, and this is problematic. we want to make sure that there is a level playing field, that there is hard competition, but not unfair competition. so we have to make sure that our single market is open for everybody, but is fair for everybody. we cannot allow unfair competition to happen or take place in europe. we also, like president tusk said earlier, expect to finalise our investment agreement negotiations with china by 2020. this is of utmost importance. it will help chinese and european investments to flourish. also, we expect china to accept the geographical indications agreement, which has already been negotiated but unfortunately not approved yet. honourable members, as i said, we are strategic partners. we work very closely in many political areas, but economic cooperation is one of the particular areas where improvements are needed in order to maintain a level playing field and in order to allow european companies to do the same things in china as chinese companies are doing in europe.
president of the european council. – mr president, just two remarks. the first one for clarification, dear maria, this was not the last european council before the elections to the european parliament. it is pretty likely that we will meet still in april to discuss brexit, and for sure we will also meet on 9 may in sibiu to discuss our long-term eu strategy. it will be in an informal meeting, but also dedicated to absolutely crucial topics. mr farage, you have presented passionate arguments against the second referendum. but the truth is that the second referendum took place in 2016, because the first one took place in 1975. then, a vast majority of the british public decided that the place of the uk was in the european communities. it was you who thought three years ago that it would be possible to organise a referendum in order to invalidate the previous one. please be consistent today too. (applause)
in writing. i wanted to take the floor just to remind you that in december, when you were in romania, you publicly stated that romania should be in schengen. what have you done to keep your word? how can you finish your term without doing what you said? i thank mr tajani for conveying the position of parliament, which voted to admit romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. i also thank president juncker, who also forwarded the commission's request for admission. why are you ignoring the schengen regulation and the request of the two institutions, the european parliament and the european commission? i ask you, mr tusk, to decide by the end of the mandate on the admission of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area.
madam president, i wish we had european regulation for one reason only: to get rid of the national laws in germany and france, which of course are to protect the craft industry in those countries. but i want european regulation to be fair, transparent and to be beneficial for all member states, not just some. at the moment, as the proposal is being made, it is a small attempt at protectionism for a certain area of the european union. i would ask my colleagues not to hide behind the social argument. yes, and i want very good conditions for everyone who works in this industry and we can introduce them in these regulations. but at the same time we must remove the things that are against the treaty and not risk disrespecting the freedom of movement of labour and services. and i ask the commission as the best solution, to withdraw... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want you to be aware that unfortunately the mobility package in the form proposed by the commission and the rapporteurs will lead to the bankruptcy of hundreds of companies in the countries of central and eastern europe and the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. the current provisions of the package not only have negative consequences for the eastern carriers, but also run counter to the principles of the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time risking to lead to protectionism and to distortion in favour of the eastern companies. ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable, this is the legacy of the eighth legislature of the european parliament. it is clear that we want to protect and strengthen social rights for drivers, but the same colleagues who support these things must also support a fair and equitable european-wide mileage tax, which will enable companies in central and eastern europe to cover all their costs and indeed offer better social conditions. it's time to take... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, all the experience so far with the mobility package clearly shows that it is not wise pursuing it in its current form, especially if it means rushing it through chaotically in this mandate. it was a bad proposal to start with. instead of sanctioning some national measures going against the single market, the commission seemed to elevate the very same restrictive practices to eu level. this proposal fails several basic tests of any piece of eu legislation. firstly, it goes against the principles of the single market, stifles competition, discriminates against a large number of member states, throws environmental consideration into the dustbin, and in no way does it pursue the best interests of all member states and citizens. if we took a step back from simplistic slogans, we could see that in the pursuit of protectionist interests we decrease the competitiveness of our industries, create monopolies and raise greenhouse gases and prices for consumers. at the same time, we split europe into two. we should definitely leave this package for the new mandate.
madam president, i welcome president antonio tajani's decision to apply article 175 and refer the controversial package back to the commission. i call for calm and wisdom, because this dossier is successfully fuelling the eurosceptic current in eastern europe on the eve of the european parliament elections, where road transport in general is the main source of income for tens of thousands of families. the agreement is far from ideal, it needs to be renegotiated, it fragmented the market between east and west. there must be a balance between ensuring conditions for drivers, between ensuring road safety on the one hand, but also taking into account the respect of the free movement of persons and services within the european union.
the next item is the debate on the report of mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment (com ((2018) 0340 - c8-0218/2018 - 2018/0172 ((cod)) (a8-0317/2018).
my impression is that we have already been eating plastic for a long time now.
well, where are the times when we all wanted to wear a nylon shirt? that was in the early 60s.
well now, that’s settled. thank you very much.
the reporter. madam president, colleagues, shadow rapporteurs and opinion-makers, we have done an extraordinary job. together we have managed to complete this report in this legislature. the result of this report reflects the work of you, me, farmers, trade associations, fertiliser manufacturers. we all worked hard and contributed to the report so that it was in the right form, coherent and helpful to all the sectors involved. for two years we have fought to uphold our ideas and to defend our consumers, our industry, our farmers and our agricultural future. and today we reap the rewards. the fruits of our work and ideas lie before you and await your vote of confidence. we have negotiated intensively with three presidencies: the estonian presidency, we negotiated with the bulgarian presidency, where we were very close to concluding, and finally, under the austrian presidency, in the fourth trilogue, in november last year, we showed that we are able to compromise in order to reach a consensus. and i want to thank, in this way, the austrian presidency. there were tense moments and meetings and a lot of emotions during the negotiations. anyone who says it was a simple file is wrong. i want to assure everyone here that with today's adoption and the entry into force of the fertiliser report, all the actors in the agricultural industry stand to gain, as do consumers. the new regulation, which will replace the regulation of 15 years ago, concerns the opening of the internal market for all types of fertilisers, is part of the circular economy package, and concerns the opening of the internal market for all types of fertilisers and the harmonisation of limits for all contaminants. at present, half of the fertilisers on the european union market are not covered by the current legislation. currently, only 5% of organic waste is recycled and used as fertiliser. e new regulation aims to replace up to 30% of the volume of inorganic fertilisers. today, the european union imports over six million tonnes of phosphate per year, but could recover up to two million tonnes of phosphorus from sewage sludge, biodegradable waste and ashes from the neutralisation of animal waste. the agreed text introduces limits for all contaminants, such as cadmium in phosphate fertilisers, to reduce risks to consumer health and the environment. the limits for the cadmium content of eu phosphate fertilisers will be 60 mg/kg from the date of application of the regulation, i.e. three years after its entry into force. so, to sum up, european consumers will have healthier food, by imposing lower limits on heavy metals in fertilisers, european farmers will have access to a wider variety of safer fertilisers, they will have access to organic fertilisers that will circulate freely in the single market, thus encouraging the use of recycled materials for fertiliser production. the industry will have a wider choice of raw material suppliers, avoiding the potential for monopoly or artificial price-fixing of the finished product and saving thousands of jobs. as regards the placing of fertilisers on the market, i would like to make one clarification: member states will still be able to establish internal rules for national marketing. mutual recognition of products between states is also possible. i would like to mention that - again very important to me - i also argued that sufficient incentives should be given to the development of decadmixing technologies and to the management of cadmium-rich hazardous waste through relevant financial resources. i want to say that i am personally very pleased with the final form of this regulation.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i had one concrete question from ms schreijer-pierik and let me answer directly. the study report will be ready before the end of this year, so not so much time will elapse before you will know this. given the broadness of the study, we have enough guarantees to assume it will go in the direction she assumes as well. so i would just encourage her to keep watching this and then to take it from there when the draft study is ready. for the rest, i just want to say that this is good for farmers, this is good for small- and medium-sized enterprises, this is good for the environment, and, most of all, this is good for our health. so this is one more step forward, and we will keep following the issue so that we can take further steps in the future, but the vote today already takes us in the right direction.
the reporter. madam president, vice-president frans timmermans, i would like to thank my colleagues for their speeches today. i would like to point out and mention mr marc tarabella, mr czesak, mr iwaszkiewicz, mrs troszczynski, mr kallas, mr durand, mr maštálka, mr huitema and, last but not least, mrs gardini, because we have worked extraordinarily well on this dossier. i have noted from the speeches of my colleagues that the interinstitutional negotiations have been good, balanced and i can only ask them to vote unanimously on this report.
member of the commission. – madam president, good morning. it’s a pleasure for me to be here to replace commissioner navracsics for this important plenary debate. promoting cultural and linguistic diversity in europe and boosting our cultural and creative sectors to ensure they remain world class are essential elements of the european project. creative europe has played a major role in this, which is why we want to build on and strengthen this programme after 2020. we want more europeans to be able to enjoy the wealth of our diverse cultures, benefiting from their undisputed power to embody our common values and promote our shared european identity. i know that the rapporteur, ms costa, and her shadow rapporteurs fully support these goals. my sincere thanks go to you, ms costa, for the high—quality work you have done on this proposal and the excellent working relations we have enjoyed with you. to live up to our ambition, the commission’s intention is to continue linking up professionals from different european countries through cooperation projects, partnerships and networks; to keep on connecting europe’s beautiful audiovisual works with large international audiences; and to continue investing in cross—sectoral innovation. we will do all this because we believe it is the best way to enlarge the horizons of both creators and audiences, while at the same time developing good solutions to cultural issues of common concern across borders. but we also want to support our cultural and creative sectors in adapting to new challenges and making the most of opportunities that are opening up in times of rapid change. this is why we have proposed some new features: a new international window; individual mobility for artists and cultural operators; support for specific cultural sectors, such as music books and publishing; architectural and cultural heritage; a stronger focus on europe’s audiovisual talents, especially women; encouraging creative spaces for script writing; initiatives to enhance promotion and marketing for european books in europe and beyond; new innovative cross—sectoral actions, encompassing new technologies such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence for content creation, distribution and promotion; and also a scheme to promote a diverse and pluralistic media environment in europe, including through media literacy. dear members of parliament, i am pleased that you welcome these novelties and, more generally, that you agree on the ambition, the architecture and the objectives we propose. as you know, the commission and also the council presidency were keen to reach a partial first-reading agreement before the end of this legislature. this would have sent a clear signal to the european citizens about the importance we attach to this programme and to the cultural diversity and richness that makes europe unique and defines our identities. it would also have helped us to put everything in place to be able to start implementing the new programme in time before it starts in 2021. the commission therefore regrets that this programme is among the few where negotiations will not have started before the elections. we are very much looking forward to the future negotiations and our continued excellent cooperation. i am confident that we can find a swift agreement on the issues where our institutions hold slightly diverging views, as we all agree on the importance and the general thrust of the programme. the european parliament and the committee on culture and education (cult) in particular have always been an ally for the commission when it came to working together for the benefit of our cultural and creative professions and professionals in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, since mrs silvia costa has dealt with the subject in detail, i am left - fortunately for me, of course - with a general overview. i think it is important to look back on the five years we have had - i am referring to the committee on culture and education - and i must say that in the balance sheet, i feel that the committee on culture and education has acted as a single entity, working with both the right and the left. the proof is that we are finally at this point, where this program is kind of like the proof that finally -- i think, at least -- culture, heritage are no longer seen as a cinderella of budgets, but, on the contrary, they are growing by the day. this programme is proof of that, and of course all the members of the committee on culture have contributed to it, and i would say - because the president was pleased to note the presence of mr gérard deprez in the chamber, and i am pleased to note that he is one of the people i felt i was able to support in difficult times, especially as a member of the committee on budgets, because it is impossible to work only in committees, only with our own subjects, but to look at the whole, to make friends, to clarify the world and everyone on the right and the left, and i am even referring to this chamber, or to european politics itself. finally, to cut a long story short, i would say that this programme, as a sort of crowning achievement of our work, of all of us, even contains a kind of philosophy and i focus on one subject that particularly impressed me - as a film actor - the notion of the cinema hall, of cinema projected in the hall, has gained weight, has been fully understood as a fundamental social function and not ... (the chair withdrew the speaker's speech)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, culture, cultural heritage and cultural diversity are the riches of the single market. we have a national identity, of course, but we also have a european cultural heritage that we have to take into account. i am very happy that the creative europe programme exists, because it actually contributes to competitiveness, social cohesion and local and regional development. i am surprised that some people do not understand this link between 'creative europe' and economic growth and development. it stimulates the creation of innovative projects, this project, and the knowledge of successful projects, the knowledge of each other. culture in fact ensures economic and social sustainability and should be a central element of development policies. we need to promote cultural education, because cultural education, after all, is an important pillar of democracy. i am very glad that there is a substantial budget, i hope that this budget will not be low and i certainly hope that there will be a system of quantitative and qualitative performance indicators because, yes, in this area too we need quality.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, i too would like to thank you for your work on this dossier, the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed. erasmus+ has achieved something that is difficult to quantify in money: it has helped to form, especially among young people, a much-needed european identity. this is, i believe, the purpose of the erasmus+ programme and the secret of its success so far. however, to continue at the same level, i still believe that the programme needs more funding. we in the committee on employment and in the committee on culture have proposed a tripling and i hope that the council will come and support this. i also believe that there is a need to improve communication between beneficiaries, the european commission and national bodies. last but not least, the digital age requires simplification, increased accessibility and reduced bureaucracy. and we must not forget that erasmus+ must become more inclusive, must ensure access for the disadvantaged and for those with disabilities, and must clearly ensure equality between women and men. and let's not forget, i insist, you insist on a tripling, because we have new constituents, we want a tripling of beneficiaries. if we don't have that tripling, it's going to be hard to make them, so we're probably going to have to cut back on quality. thank you for supporting erasmus+!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus is certainly a well-known and well-loved programme in all the member states. millions of young people have participated in this program. as has been said here, the budget also needs to be increased and, commissioner, you have given us the good news that it is being doubled. but you have seen, it has come out very clearly from the debate here, that it is not enough to double the budget. because we should be thinking about how we can cover as many occupational categories as possible. it said doctors and nurses, but i think all professional categories should be included. because we have one single market and we have this freedom of movement of workers. i think we need to target the more remote, rural areas and find ways to include people with disabilities. there is not an appropriate percentage in the erasmus programme in terms of inclusion and i think that is where we have to think about the future. i hope, commissioner, that in the new financial framework you will also fight for a bigger budget, because, yes, erasmus must have an economic impact. and it has economic effects if you think about vocational training.
mr president, commissioner, this is a very important regulation, but because it is so important, the commission has a very heavy task. first, you have to set those criteria, and you have to be careful how you set them. very much transparency and extremely well defined. what is sustainability? it is clear that sustainable investment must take account of environmental requirements, social requirements, and the protection of resources. at the same time, it must not block - as my colleagues have said here - the development of smes. we have to see in what national context, how we can in certain remote areas not have the same effect as the european fund for strategic investments, which was defined as a fund that wants to develop cohesion and develop the poorer areas and now we find that the funds have been concentrated in five member states. so it is extremely important what the commission does with these criteria. obviously, you have to follow up and - as the regulation also requires - make a report showing the effects of this regulation, but i am concerned because there are certain points in this regulation that lead to the blocking of investments in certain sectors.
madam president, research, innovation are the only things that bring progress for each country and for the union and for each individual and community. intelligence, creativity, all put to work, all put together, sometimes nationally, sometimes across borders, is what drives us forward. that's what the voting shows. people who are uneducated, people who don't travel, who don't study, who don't have contact with others in other countries will not vote for a democratic party and they won't understand what democracy is and they won't react to anti-democratic measures. that's why erasmus+ is a fantastic programme. it has so far taught over nine million young people, who have studied abroad, either in school or learning a trade, and in romania in 2007, until the first years after 2007, there were 35 000 beneficiaries. now we have over 250,000 beneficiaries. this is ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for being here today to debate a subject of great importance to the european union as a whole. the vienna parliament passed a law last year adjusting child benefits for foreign workers who do not live with their parents in austria according to the cost of living in their country of residence. this measure entails a substantial decrease for the children's allowances in eastern europe as from 1 january 2019. however, the legislation adopted is in breach of the european union regulations on the coordination of social security systems. they lay down common rules on the payment of family benefits for workers employed in another member state. mobile workers - and i stress this - mobile workers are entitled to the same child benefit as local workers, regardless of where their children live. the treaty prohibits any direct or indirect discrimination against workers on grounds of nationality. european workers must enjoy the same rights, and the european commission cannot tolerate discriminatory actions that undermine the idea of unity and solidarity at european level, actions that contribute to worsening the feeling that there could be class i and class ii citizens in the european union. we emphasize that we are talking about the children of those who have legally concluded employment contracts and pay taxes and duties to the austrian state, children who are far from their parents, whom they see only at easter or christmas, who do not have the parental kiss of good night and who do not have that much needed parental upbringing and education. it is cynical how some governments choose to strike in the interests of the weakest and most defenseless, namely children. in this context, commissioner, what action will the european commission take in this case? and how will you proceed to timely management of this problem?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you a very clear question. are you aware that the legislation adopted in austria violates european regulations? or am i to understand that you've exited the european union? you do understand that those children living in romania need financial compensation due to the lack of direct parental care, don't you?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the idea is very simple: relations between the european union and china are not limited to trade issues. given recent developments on both sides, it would be good to widen the scope of this debate. i am sure you will accept our group's request.
mr president, mr prime minister, distinguished colleagues. mr. prime minister, i really liked everything you said. you spoke about fundamental values, about the fact that we have to think about when we make any decision at european or local level, think about the influences on people, think about independent courts, think about all the things that are actually written in the treaty and in the constitutions of the member states. but i ask you, mr. prime minister, if mr. weber had come to you and said, as prime minister, as he did in my country, 'please stop the process of investigating a prosecutor.' what would you have done if the first vice president of the european commission had said, as he said today about my country and ordered the government to ban the investigation of a prosecutor, but said nothing when a chief prosecutor was unfairly investigated and now is, in fact, innocent. what would you do, what common values, how can we give a message to the citizens? and that is the question, in fact: how do you see, in your vision, the future of the european union, if there is so much fragmentation in the european space and there is so much double standards in the application of decisions?
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his intervention. i would like to hear a little bit more about how sweden sees the future financing of the european union. at the same time, sweden represented an example on social security for other european union countries. unfortunately, nowadays, even when you have a minimum wage of eur 8 per hour there are workers from central and eastern europe working in sweden who are paid eur 5 per hour, or even illegally. which measures are you going to take in order to respect equal rights for european union citizens? and last, but not least, do you see that more drugs are sold not only in sweden, in stockholm or in malmö, but in paris, in brussels, in london? don’t you think that all of us should enforce a policy of the european union to fight drugs trafficking and give a chance to the new generation in europe?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you, mr buzek, the other shadow rapporteurs and the romanian presidency for having closed this extremely important, very controversial dossier, for one country only, in fact, in a very short time. and i want to say these things because there's a lesson in it. the rules of the european union must apply to all member states equally, and you cannot favour one member state at the expense and expense of citizens of the other member states, who were exposed to high prices, to a lack of security of supply, with all the negative things that would follow from this. and i think something else: that the lesson today is that we cannot make a special regime for one company, either it and gazprom, for one member state, or it and germany, but we must make the same rules for all member states for the benefit of european citizens and above all show that the rules work in the european union for everyone. when everyone obeys these rules of competition, of transparency, then the benefits will be for everyone, and this has been welcomed by everyone, and for this i want to thank everyone for showing how it should be done in the european union, and especially the benefits for european citizens, because what has to be said is that in the absence of this amendment to the directive, gas prices would have been subjected to games that were uncontrollable and this could not be accepted. if we really want to and find that we cannot do without natural gas, we must ensure that it comes at a fair price, that every european citizen pays the right price and that the basic law in the european union is competition and a level playing field for everyone, third countries and those who want to enter into trade relations with the european union. that's the message, and i want to congratulate everyone on this achievement.
in writing. following the opening of the first stage of the infringement procedure against romania for the capping of gas prices by oug 114, the already well-known socialist government excludes economic agents for the purpose of the decision, but intends to maintain the capping of gas prices for consumption by the population and the taxation of energy companies at 2% of turnover. although at first glance this measure seems beneficial to romanians, it is nothing more than a populist electoral maneuver of the current ruling group, which will in fact generate both an excessive increase in gas prices and the bankruptcy of many local companies in the gas sector, thus putting the security of gas supply of thousands of households in real danger. i therefore call on the european commission to intensify its dialogue with the government in bucharest in order to eliminate these risks and ensure the security and competitiveness of the gas market both in romania and in the european union.
mr president, first of all, i am pleased to see that the subject matter of this debate has been broadened, as i requested at the beginning of the sitting. it would have been absurd to discuss only trade. i want to welcome and support the importance of this new strategy adopted by the european union for our relations with china. firstly, because we have broken with the language of wood and we have said clearly, we have admitted that china is competing with us, not only on trade issues, but also in promoting a model of governance that is opposed to our values. indeed, while the european union makes the defence of human rights, madam, of freedoms, madam, and of the rule of law, madam, one of the pillars of its diplomacy, china promotes authoritarianism, madam, and the law of the strongest, madam, is that what you like, madam? but go to china, then, madam! if you don't like freedom anymore, take your italian friend and go enjoy the wonderful atmosphere of popular china, madame! human rights must be at the heart of our strategy. we should not be afraid of damaging our commercial interests simply because every time we talk about democratic values, xi jinping is uncomfortable. our objective is not the well-being of xi jinping, it is the rights of individuals and the commercial interests of europe as a whole, not those of individual nations. it is not the salvini government that will save our relations and improve the lot of european citizens. let us work together and stop thinking in terms of this self-serving logic which is in fact a real proof of dishonesty, a betrayal of europe.
mr president, it was high time that the eu narrative in relation to china changed. this converges to the epp group’s position, which i have recently expressed in the committee on international trade (inta). our calls to see concrete changes on the ground will intensify and i am glad to observe that the commission also addresses much attention to trade—related aspects in this recently retitled communication. a robust trade policy is key to the future relationship with china. the three main priorities of the epp group are already very well—known, but let me just reiterate them. we want improved conditions for european companies to better market access, we want concrete action to level the playing field on the chinese market, especially concerning state-owned enterprises, and we highlight the importance of reciprocity in our trade and investment relations. concerning the upcoming eu—china summit, we urge the commission to maintain its assertive position. indeed, also at last year’s summit the joint declaration included some clear promises which have yet to be met by our chinese partners. so, our message to them is very clear: the time to act is now. china needs to start delivering on the promises it has made numerous times, especially on advancing the investment treaty negotiations while addressing the issues related to state—subsidised industries and technology transfers. we want to see a concrete change on the ground to benefit european businesses, european investors and all the citizens of the european union.
mr president, trade and investment are one of the key pillars in eu—china relations. china is the eu’s biggest source of imports and the second biggest export market. a healthy and balanced trade relation and fair access to chinese markets are key interests of the union. although the eu currently has a trade deficit with china, we should see there are huge potentials and increasing opportunities in the chinese market which could be further explored when china loosens its restrictions on market access for foreign companies, particularly in the financial services sector. we are pleased that the chinese government has made several commitments since 2018. i am much expecting its implementation. the last point i want to mention is that the eu and china are both committed to multilateralism and free trade, even if we have different political and economic systems. eu—china collaboration on world trade organisation reform would be a good chance to put china on a level playing field and to promote its fair practices.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, the customs union is a significant factor of integration, and not for one year, two - for decades. it is one of the few areas of exclusive competence of the european union without which the abolition of internal borders would not be possible. the european union is the world's largest trading market, accounting for 15% of total world trade. that is why it is important to have a customs union and to have this regulation. the exclusive competence of the european union entails an equal responsibility. i therefore consider the regulation establishing the customs cooperation programme to be very important. as rapporteur, i have tried to improve the commission's proposal together with the shadow rapporteurs. i would also like to thank the commission for its willingness to discuss this proposal for a regulation and to recall that this regulation was based on the idea that customs authorities have a special role to play in helping to protect the financial interests of the union and the member states and to ensure fair and fair competition in the internal market vis-à-vis competitors from third countries. it also provides consumer protection, protects the population against terrorist threats, sanitary threats. therefore, customs authorities play a special role in ensuring the integrity of supply chains. the future ics2 import control system for customs risk management will make a decisive contribution to the security of the union and its citizens, but also to that of businesses. we have a new customs code since 2016, but unfortunately we know that it has not succeeded in completely eliminating paper-based procedures in all member states. therefore, we need to have a sufficient budget for the 'customs' programme and not delay its implementation any further. i regret that the trialogue did not take place during this mandate, although it could have taken place in my view, and i regret that the budgetary uncertainty remains, as the new financial framework 2021-2027 has not yet been adopted. i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs and the members of the imco committee for their support and i would like to draw the attention of the commission, the council, that the customs regulation should not be underfunded because, as i said at the beginning of my speech, customs authorities have a multi-role role with a major impact on the functioning of the internal market. in order to ensure maximum efficiency, the commission should coordinate the implementation of the customs programme with other union programmes such as fiscalis, the european union anti-fraud programme, the single market programme, the internal security programme and the integrated border management fund. we should ensure that the possible brexit, we do not yet know if it will happen, does not affect the application of this regulation. we should also ensure that through this regulation, strict border controls, through the use of computer software by all member states, can improve the current situation. i remind the commission that on 4 october 2018, the european parliament adopted a resolution on combating customs fraud and protecting own resources. i consider it necessary to take account of the conclusions of that resolution in the implementation of the customs programme. after all, the functioning of the internal market depends very much on the functioning of the customs union, on the functioning of the 'customs' programme. i hope, commissioner, that you will take the recommendations into account and i hope that the customs programme will still be voted on in this mandate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to congratulate again the two rapporteurs on these two files and thank all the members of the european parliament for their participation in this debate. the commission greatly appreciates the excellent work of the european parliament and both rapporteurs, who have been very constructive in the discussion so far. the commission fully shares the view of the european parliament and its calls aimed at further integrating the work of the different customs authorities, allowing them to function as one entity. the proposals for more convergence of controls can only support an increased overall performance of eu customs. based on the debate, i do not see major blocking points. i am sure that our experts will easily find common ground and that solutions will be found with the appropriate wording. let me conclude by expressing my firm belief that the progress achieved in the negotiations so far and the exchanges in plenary today will be used as a platform to reach an agreement for the benefit of european citizens, businesses and customs administrations. the commission is very positive about the vote in plenary tomorrow and we remain convinced that, together, we will manage to address the limited number of outstanding issues once negotiations resume.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, in conclusion i would just like to say this: unlike other regulations, here, as i said in my introduction, the responsibility is very great, both of the european union and of the commission. therefore, in the specific provisions of this regulation, we provide for tasks for the commission, as regards the development and operation of common components, to coordinate at union level. i want to stress that this is important, especially because, as my colleague was saying, as far as how they protect citizens, obviously if we have customs control, we have protection of citizens in terms of food safety, product safety, drug trafficking, human trafficking, terrorism and so on. and for the fellow who didn't understand how it works, we're not talking about internal borders. i was just saying that for the last 50 years, since the customs union has been in operation, we have been able to abolish frontiers. we are talking about border controls at the borders of the european union with third countries. that is what it is all about and i hope we will succeed, even if we have not been able to do the trilogue, i hope we will be able to complete the process, because, as i said, the functioning of the internal market and all the other things are very important and dependent on the functioning of the customs union, these reports, and it is important to have the information in time, to have common control procedures, to have computerization, of course, because the bureaucratization and the time in which the control is carried out are also very important. thank you and let's hope we have two very good regulations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms danièle aiuto, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2008/96/ec on the safety management of road infrastructure (com ((2018) 0274 c8-0196/2018 2018/0129 ((cod)) (a8-0008/2019).
member of the commission. – mr president, we are all concerned by road safety, as road users, parents, friends. there are way too many people losing their lives on our roads. that’s a fact. it is of little comfort to know that we are by far the safest area in the world, because none of us want to be part of the statistics. the safety and quality of road infrastructure contribute significantly to accidents and fatalities, and its contributing factor is over 30%. this is why i am very glad that we are, together, taking concrete measures to address the road safety situation in europe. i can say that we are finally walking the talk in a very systemic way. with a preliminary agreement reached on 21 february on the revised directive on road infrastructure safety, we have made a very substantial step forward to improve safety on european roads. safe infrastructure is one of the three key pillars of our safe system approach, in addition to safe vehicles and safe road use, our behaviour. i would therefore like to use this opportunity to thank you all for the excellent cooperation and your continued support throughout this process. i thank in particular the rapporteur, ms aiuto, and all the shadow rapporteurs. they were very constructive in this process and strived for an ambitious result. i am proud of the result and i think you can all be as well. with the text as it stands now, we will deliver concrete measures that will, without any doubt, be a major improvement compared to the current road safety situation and, what really counts at the end, we will save lives. how? first, thanks to the wider scope of the application, more roads will be covered, as already mentioned by the rapporteur. so far our rules covered only ten—t motorways, which are, by definition, the safest roads accounting for only 8% of fatalities. with the new text we agreed to target specifically primary roads where we are recording 39% of fatalities. here i have in mind, especially national roads with really heavy traffic. second, we are also moving towards a more proactive approach to road safety with a network-wide assessment. what does this mean? it means that the european road network should be assessed proactively and the stress is on proactive activities to identify potential risk sections, for example, black spots on our roads, and ensure appropriate follow-up. we don’t want to wait for accidents to happen. this will help us to detect potential danger and act before people become part of statistics. network-wide safety assessment will also bring transparency and will focus investment on where the returns are the greatest. in other words, this will be used as a criteria for investment. last, but not least, special attention will be paid to vulnerable road users like motorcyclists and cyclists, for example, by focusing on visible markings, dedicated bike lanes and similar. we have laid the basis for making our road infrastructure fit for purpose, for accommodating new driver assisted technologies and, later on, for autonomous mobility. there, the commission will work with member states’ experts to prepare common specifications for road markings and signs. that brings me to the point where i want to make a link with the general safety regulation, the second important proposal from the third mobility package. i am glad that our negotiations managed to reach a preliminary agreement last week, on which i want to congratulate you as well – 15 new features in vehicles of all price ranges in order to improve the safety of our citizens. this is something very concrete and deliverable for our citizens and ourselves as well. indeed, the infrastructure directive and the general safety regulation are two sides of the same coin, as the latter can only unfold its full potential and its benefits if the road infrastructure is ready to accommodate those new technologies that vehicles will have on board in the future. altogether, we expect these two sets of rules to save about 10 500 lives in the period between 2020 to 2030 and also around 60 000 serious injuries. this is what we’re here for, and this is why it’s worth cooperating in order to deliver on this very clear result. it will therefore be of the essence that the new provisions of the road infrastructure safety management directive can be implemented as swiftly as possible so that the revised legislation delivers its benefits quickly. this is why i am counting on you to ensure the adoption of the text as previously agreed at the trilogue on 21 february. i understand that any changes resulting from the linguistic review that will be carried out over the summer will need to be formally endorsed by the european parliament, hopefully as early as september. in this way, we expect the directive to be published and to enter into force by october of this year. this would be great news for our citizens and the commission will do its part in the follow—up. we will establish the working and expert groups very quickly, some already in may this year, as we promised, and drive the process forward with clear determination.
mr president, commissioner, i want to congratulate the rapporteurs from the outset, the report is a very ambitious report, i am glad that the negotiations with the council went well, and i congratulate the commission for proposing, at the same time as the launch of the amendment to the directive, a general road safety framework for the period 2020-2030, of course a framework adapted to the new situation, because of course the structure of transport has changed, we have more cyclists, we have more vulnerable people, and because of everything that has been discussed here, in all the proposals, related to this directive, it is up to the counters in each area. what i would like to say, commissioner, is that we should look at how we can get to countries where the road infrastructure is less developed, with the development of the infrastructure, of course, and with the surveillance system, because we have no surveillance system if we do not have a quality infrastructure, and i am very pleased that the revised directive aims to achieve some important objectives, including those of halving the number of accidents by 2030.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your very positive debate. with these files, i think that we showed very concretely that our common commitment to road safety is more than just words. we are walking the path towards vision zero with a very concrete agenda in our hands. i’m so proud of all of us, sincerely, because we were able to show eu citizens that we can be very ambitious, bold and very concrete when we work together, and that is a very strong message. so i would like to thank again the rapporteur – she was great in motivating everyone – and all of you because i think we all work together with a very passionate and very sincere approach to save the lives of europeans, and what can be more motivating than that? so, thank you very much again and i’m really looking forward to a constructive deployment of our legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the commission's proposal on road infrastructure safety management is part of the third mobility package and aims to reduce both road fatalities and serious injuries by improving the safety performance of road infrastructure. this directive provides for the establishment and implementation of procedures for impact assessments and road safety audits, road safety inspections and network-wide road safety assessments by member states. road safety in the eu has improved significantly in recent decades thanks to measures taken at eu level as well as at national, regional and local levels. although some member states continue to make considerable progress each year, the eu-wide road fatality rate has stagnated in recent years. in this context, we agree that measures are still needed to slow down road fatality rates so as to achieve the targets of halving the number of road deaths by 2020 compared to 2010 and approaching the target of 'zero deaths' by 2050. the measures envisaged would include extending the scope of the directive, introducing network-wide road assessments and common specifications for road markings.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. president, thank you. dear romanians in the diaspora, we are waiting for you at home! it is a fact that we have over 4.5 million romanians working and living outside the country's borders. depopulation of rural areas, labour shortages in agriculture and other sectors are evident in romania. i therefore welcome the introduction into the new common agricultural policy, adopted yesterday by the agri committee, of the concept of the new farmer, which applies to people over 40. they will be able to obtain european funding of up to eur 100 000 to develop an agricultural business. young farmers under 40 years of age benefit from an increase from eur 70 000 to eur 100 000 over an extended period of five to seven years. european farmers should be paid when they decide to practice organic farming to ensure a clean environment and quality oxygen for all of europe. at the same time, external convergence or the equalization of subsidies between farmers in the west and the east must become an objective for the next parliament, given that all farmers are actors in the same single market.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. my expectations for this directive were more in line with the commission’s ambitious proposal. in this house we managed to take it to a higher level, but after tough and lengthy negotiations with the council the final text has lost in potential. i would have liked stronger provisions on paternity leave, and levels of payment on parental leave, because there are studies which clearly indicate that a percentage of around 85% of workers’ salary represents an incentive for men to make use of their parental leave entitlement. otherwise, the burden will continue to be on women. the final negotiations between the two co—legislators couldn’t reach an agreement on these aspects. too much is left in the hands of the member states and in the end there is little changed compared to the current situation. it is a step forward, but a very small step. in relation to carers’ leave, this directive brings a true novelty at the european level, but i regret to say that member states have been too reluctant or cautious in their approach. studies prove that, due to the responsibility of caring for a sick or elderly member of their family, women are always at the forefront, at the expense of their jobs, careers, financial independence, decent pensions and, of course, social life. however, the text stands for a step forward. although it is not revolutionary, at least we are now talking about a paid paternity leave entitlement at the eu level, about two months’ non—transferable and paid parental leave and five days of carers’ leave. last but not least, eu citizens are entitled to ask for flexible working arrangements to balance working patterns with their individual and family needs. i can but hope that we will improve this in the future.
in writing. i am glad that we can adopt a directive on work-life balance before the end of this parliamentary term. unfortunately, too many women in europe say that they cannot easily reconcile their professional and family life. 32 percent of women work part-time because they can't find a balance between the two spheres of life. obviously, in many cases, this also generates very large differences in pay and pensions between men and women. the current legal framework at eu and member state level contains a limited number of incentives for men to take an equal share of family responsibilities. those shortcomings need to be remedied. the issue of the amount of the parental leave allowance is essential for the equal use of parental leave by men and women. i strongly support the commission's proposal to bring this allowance up to the level of sick leave allowance, it is a step forward in this respect.
in writing. – first of all, i want to congratulate the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council, under the presidency of romania. promoting gender equality in employment is one of priorities for romanian presidency. the directive on work-life balance, once enter into force, will have significant influences on working parents and carers across europe, particularly on women’s empowerment. it’s the first time at the eu level to regulate 10-day paternity leave for fathers, paid at sick leave level and 2-month non-transferable parental leave between fathers and mothers, which will greatly encourage men to take more caring responsibilities at home. i believe this directive will be a cornerstone in the european pillar of social rights. this is one of initial legislative steps improving women’s economic independence. i much expect its adoption. and we will closely follow up its implementation in member states. i hope that, in the next mandate, more legislative efforts on women’s empowerment will be initiated.
mr president, on the rules of procedure, because these are very important matters, i propose that we stop wasting time and vote electronically only.
mr president, i come back to the request of our colleague from the very beginning. what we are voting now, we are not voting on content. we are voting periphery against other countries. of course it’s the same result. let’s repeat the vote on content, on article, paragraph by paragraph, and article by article, because this is not the way that the european parliament votes. to vote blocks – the only reason for these blocks is the group of meps that proposed the amendments. there are in one block amendments of article 4, article 9, article 12, with no connection between them – nothing. we are speaking about driving time, about the age of the driver, about parking and so on, and there is no connection between the amendments. this is not following any rule of parliament. sorry, but this is the situation. this is the mess created by the staff from parliament. (applause)
mr president, when we planned to invite the high representative to a debate on the future of the european union's foreign policy, we committed ourselves to keeping this subject exclusive in order to give this parliament the opportunity to have a substantive discussion with the high representative and to convey this message to the future parliament. if we introduce, if we cannibalize this session with the high representative with other topics, we risk actually missing the strategic purpose of our debate. i therefore suggest that you do not overload this meeting with the high representative, which risks losing its strategic meaning.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting this intervention. i shall ask the following question in romanian, so you can use the interpretation system. – doamnă gräßle, dumneavoastră ați spus în intervenția dumneavoastră lucruri reprobabile despre curtea constituțională din românia. aș dori să vă întreb - și vă adresez această provocare - cum puteți explica românilor mei că în țara dumneavoastră membrii curții constituționale pot fi membri de partid?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, today in romania a group of corrupt politicians led by the convict and socialist dragnea, who is definitely convicted and has new trials, has taken the country in hand and is bringing it down. they don't follow the government's program announced at the elections, they change the laws, they erase crimes, they politically subordinate judges and prosecutors, they turn investment money into electoral bribes, they destroy the heart of democracy so that they, the corrupt politicians, can escape justice. the fate of 20 million people is ultimately in the balance with the fate of one man, with the salvation of one man? romanians are not an inert people, we have been taking to the streets for over two years. we're gassed, we're beaten, we're shot with rubber bullets or hit with hand grenades. that doesn't stop us from going out. next, our road is europe. we are watching desperately as the country is being plunged into the sea by dragnea, tariceanu and their gang. i can't keep quiet. you can't let us end up as prisoners of a few hundred politicians who hold the levers of power. i ask you to help romania because, under the guise of democracy, romania is today living a criminal dictatorship and the tragedy of the emptied country. four million romanians have left the country in the last few years alone. our break with europe is the nightmare that our history has lived through for decades. this is the last train we can catch. we want to go to europe!
the question is "blue cardboard". i fully agree with your criticism of the commission, by mr timmermans himself, but without wishing to be partisan, the chairman of your group, mr verhofstadt, has not said anything about the situation in romania until recently. he's not here. the drift didn't start three months ago, ma'am, and when you were asked to do something, you didn't budge. you too, madam, are making an electoral calculation. tell me, why did mr. verhofstadt not say anything? does his personal friendship with mr. tariceanu or his private friendships matter more than the principles you invoke?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam in 't veld, i have two short questions for you. do you know how many times the constitutional court of romania has declared ms. kövesi's actions unconstitutional? how many times has ms. kövesi been declared to have violated the constitution in romania? and two, do you know that in the case - which is also in your attention, the open case for abuse against mrs. kövesi - the most important testimony is that of former deputies of mrs. kövesi, two prosecutors from the national anti-corruption directorate who testified against mrs. kövesi? then how can you say that there is political pressure in this case?
madam president, unfortunately today we are again having an electoral debate, a debate in which, without any clarification or anything concrete being said about romania, we are forced to say what the truth is and, above all, to combat a lot of the things that have been said and are lies. what is the rule of law situation? ladies and gentlemen - the rule of law without rights and freedoms for citizens does not exist. in 2009, the prosecutor general of romania signed a secret protocol with the intelligence services. surprisingly - the attorney general was kövesi. for two years now, revelations have begun to emerge about a long series of secret protocols concluded with the intelligence services, and romanians have been able to learn with horror, fear, and dread that these secret protocols existed and that these secret protocols led to abominable abuses and injustices. i think it's fair to say that romanians hate double standards. i hate the double standard in justice. they hate the double standard in everything that means things that pertain to their daily lives: food products that are counterfeit and have invaded the romanian market, endangering their health, pharmaceutical products. romanians are not admitted to the schengen area although since 2011 all conditions are met. there are millions of romanians in all the airports. at all border crossing points, european citizens are on one side and romanians on the other. 80% of romanians in all opinion polls say that it is unacceptable and do not recognize as legitimate the abuses that have been made in the justice system, these abuses that must be stopped once and for all. and i want you to know why i say these things, because they could see on tv every day testimony, testimony and testimony. and the romanians are sensitive because they experienced these abuses during the communist period and they don't want to accept that there are judges who are being blackmailed, judges and prosecutors who are in the bathroom, in the bedroom so that they can be blackmailed to point them out and ask them for a certain solution in a file. romanians want to be treated as equal partners, as citizens of the european union. romanians do not want and do not accept this discrimination, which is based on absolutely nothing concrete and is undeserved. to all those who have ears to hear and eyes to see, we say one thing: romania deserves more and romanians deserve more!
madam president, romania is in a cooperation and verification mechanism with the european commission. more than once, romanian politicians have been severely criticized in mcv reports for public statements on concrete court cases, considering that such practices are an interference in justice. and yet, a few weeks ago, leaders of this european parliament made an urgent call to the romanian authorities, prosecutors and courts alike, to stop an investigation against a romanian citizen who had been granted all procedural rights under the law. the superior council of the magistracy of romania, the constitutional guarantor of judicial independence, stated that these leaders, antonio tajani, manfred weber, guy verhofstadt, by their statements put pressure on the national judge who was to resolve the case, an interference with the consequence of undermining the independence of the judiciary. it is time, dear fellow europeans, to stop playing double standards and to behave exactly as you ask politicians in other countries to behave, even in an election campaign.
madam president, i must say that i too regret that the romanian government is not represented today by anyone, neither to take part in the debate on romania nor to represent the rotating presidency of the european council. this shows nothing but contempt for the institutions and for our parliament and for the council. it is unfortunate that we are in this situation as the first romanian presidency. i would like to say, on the other hand, that someone should have been here because, unfortunately, the regime in bucharest, the romanian regime, is no longer a rule of law. it is no longer a rule of law because the majority in government since 2016 has been doing exactly what mr. nica described, namely, putting enormous pressure on judges, prosecutors, on the entire body of magistrates, even creating institutions to force them to reconsider their decisions, final decisions, to force them not to pursue acts of corruption. all in the end, to save the marshmallow. they have at the head of the party a man convicted of corruption twice, a man who is at the head of the house. name me one country in the european union since the second world war that has had a party leader - the most important in number and who has continued to remain in that position - someone who has been convicted twice. who's getting a prize in the european union for stealing? how can we accept this coalition of scoundrels who want to destroy a country for a pimp? that's the question.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a point: this debate, commissioner, is a failure, as can be seen from the presence of this house. we are twenty people here - the leaders, the most critical of romania, are absent from here, they are cowards. recently, mr weber dared to come to romania, to my country, to tell the government to end an ongoing trial. commissioner, as a specialist, you know very well that neither the government of the country nor european officials can interfere in matters of judicial organisation and justice. and i want to tell you that by the interventions of european officials you have actually affected justice in romania. the citizens of romania do not understand why certain officials, certain meps interfere in ongoing processes. what do we want? do we want a common europe? how can we make a common europe? is it a campaign? yes, because mr. preda earlier said "do your campaign too". this means that the epp, which initiated this analysis, is campaigning. commissioner, you don't answer to me, but to the romanians. to understand what you've presented yourself here - because it's recording. you haven't even given one example of breaking the rule of law - one! romania's government on the rotating presidency is successful! you're sorry he's successful, that he's closed so many cases? what are you doing this for? it ended last year with a resolution, an unfair resolution, and you know, commissioner, that there is a point there that you would not put to any other country. you blame romania for changing a head of institution. well, that head of the institution has made a mess of justice. i'm not talking about the protocols he's admitted to -- i'm talking about people's lives, lost trials, thousands of trials. you yourself said that some trials had to be resumed. let people get wronged or start the trials again? who are you defending? romania is not kövesi! romania is not a person! romania means twenty million people - and please treat them with respect.
madam president, i would like to remind my colleagues from the epp - perhaps they were not aware of it, perhaps they were absent - that the decision not to represent the council in this debate is a matter for the conference of presidents. ladies and gentlemen, ask your group leader, ask yourself how your proposal disappeared before... (the chair withdrew the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, romania is a pro-european country. the romanian people want european values, they want justice, they want justice, they want the rule of law. for two years now, hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets to defend european values. politicians have a duty to always listen to the will of the people, and politicians are never allowed to change laws in their own interests. i say very clearly: millions of honest people in romania do not want either amnesty or pardon. and that is why i ask the romanian government to take into account and implement all the recommendations of the independent experts from the venice commission, the recommendations expressed by the european commission in the case of the cooperation and verification mechanism. the romanian government has a duty to listen to the people, and that is why the president of romania, mr klaus johannis, has called for a referendum on 26 may in which the romanian people can express themselves on what kind of justice they want. people can say very clearly that they do not want amnesty and pardon and they do not want to change the criminal law overnight. the criminal legislation must be amended taking into account the opinion of magistrates, the opinion of ngos and, of course, taking into account the recommendations of our international partners. i ask the commission, commissioner, to stand with the romanian people in this fight for justice and european values. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). ]
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr. muresan, you said that laws have changed... i'm going to be specific in a question. because you made a statement - that laws in the field of justice have been changed overnight - can you give an example of a single law, apart from the one changed by mr cioloș overnight with minister pruna? do you know of any other laws that have changed overnight?
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you to mrs. grapini for asking. it's a long series of emergency ordinances issued by the last three romanian governments, the first one at the end of january 2017, emergency ordinance no. 13, which took hundreds of thousands of people out of romania, an ordinance designed to weaken the fight against corruption, to weaken the rule of law in romania.
madam president, commissioner, your silence on the abuses in romania is deafening. i want to make it very clear: the aim of my party is to strengthen the european project and to eliminate the double standards that you tolerate. populism and extremism that threaten the european project are rooted in european officials' disengagement from the reality of what is happening in european capitals. the european union's reputation is suffering because of the european commission's lack of common sense in its approach to cvm and the abuses that have been proven in my country. brussels' involvement, its calls for involvement in romania's judicial and constitutional processes is unacceptable. some of you will be in the commission's next formulation and i ask you to stop your brutal interference in the judicial and constitutional processes of the member states. you're ready to use us as teaching material just to win a few percent in your internal electoral battles. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, to provoke a debate on the rule of law, a fundamental institution in the european union, and not to attend it means that you either despise the debate and the rule of law and use it only for formal and political reasons, or that you realize that it is a disgraceful debate. i do not know if it dishonors us in this house, but it is a debate that has no substance whatsoever. it's kind of a steven spielberg reboot, commissioner, where someone was convicted for what they thought. that's what you did today, because if you had the decency to check what happened in romania, you would have seen that we didn't pass any law and that's why we are criticized. but i understand the need for votes, i understand the desire of some to stay in power, to perpetuate their power, but you have to understand that this kind of behaviour is driving away the citizen of europe and for that, i think it's worth abandoning the voting haze and the populism that you have shown today.
madam president, commissioner, unfortunately i find that once again this is not a debate, but a festival of electoral slogans by those who have initiated this so-called debate, because there is no concrete element and you said at the beginning of the discussion that you do not want to discuss concrete things. in fact, no one wants to talk about concrete things, but only about concerns and risks. well, commissioner, we should be worried, if you will, and talk about the risks when high european officials here, from this tribune, have told the magistrates in romania what and how to do, which is unacceptable. rule of law means letting the judiciary do its job, not dictating to them, no matter what rank they have or have had, what and how to do.
madam president, commissioner, i begin by asking a question: when we talk about the rule of law, are we talking about respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens or not? because that's what it's about, that's the struggle and the effort that the government of romania is making, to ensure a fair justice system, where the rights and freedoms of citizens are respected, where we fight against secret protocols, we fight against the abuses of some prosecutors, we fight to not have more lives and careers destroyed. that is why i want to convey to all the political forces in this parliament that use romania as an election campaign theme, that votes are won by voting, by the credibility that you have in the eyes of the electorate. i think it is unacceptable that on the eve of the election campaign there should once again be a debate attacking the internal policy of a member state. we are again talking about a double standard at the level of the european institutions, and this is unacceptable. i believe that what is happening here today is just an electoral political game, which again affects the credibility of the european parliament... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, i find it hard to understand how we can talk about something called the rule of law, which is not defined. as long as criminal policy is a national competence - and the differences between member states' criminal policies are huge - it is impossible to make any assessment. which is why, unfortunately, i have to say, it's just noise in here. so all that's happening is just noise, that's all and nothing more. it's romanian, national competence. i personally expect the romanian judicial system and the romanian parliament to set their rules, of course, according to european principles. otherwise, unfortunately, i must say, in romania there really is no rule of law, in my opinion, it never happened to be. so it's a lot of work until we get there. but i expect the next parliament to define the rule of law in form and in fact.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, romania is my country and as long as i am here representing it in the european parliament, i will not allow anyone to tell lies about it. romania is a state of law. i say it again - romania is the rule of law. however, the image that certain romanian parties are trying to project in the public space is totally different. the electoral interests of the opposition and the political interests of some european parties make the image of justice in romania to be presented in a wrong way. those who complain in europe of romania's lack of respect for the rule of law are the same ones who at home are putting pressure on the judiciary, trying to influence the legal system to convict, even without evidence, some politicians or, on the contrary, are putting pressure on the justice to show leniency towards certain people in their circle of influence. when members of the romanian opposition come to know about certain aspects that they think are not in line with the law, they should, first of all, stop violating it by pressuring the judiciary. (the president withdrew the floor)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members once again for their dedication, work and support on this project. we of course regret that unanimity could not be found in the council on the digital services tax. however, the work on the file is not lost but will provide a framework for member states which may decide to make progress on their own by legislating at national level. we can return to the union debate if no international agreement can be reached on a comprehensive solution at oecd level. moreover, we are pleased to see how the digital services tax proposal, which almost reached a compromise in the council, triggered a debate at international level on the tax challenges posed by the digital economy. so europe is shaping this debate. the oecd and g20 negotiations on how to reform the corporate tax framework will be extremely important. therefore, we need to continue the work and focus our efforts on this. the union’s participation in such discussions must be coordinated. we have budgetary and social responsibilities that are unique to europe. the challenge is twofold. firstly, we must collectively ensure that our public finances are sustainable, and, secondly, we also need to ensure a fair distribution of the tax burden. we can be proud of what has been achieved together on this file, but we are also aware that the work is unfinished. we also believe that the blocking of the digital services tax by a few member states in the council, and previous similar experiences, should be seen as a wake—up call concerning the need for the union to gradually move towards qualified majority voting on tax matters. the decision—making process on tax matters needs to be resolved.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to draw parliament's attention to the outrageous, blood-curdling case in romania. the mayor of korond, a municipality in the szekler islands, was fined €97,000 for writing the name of the institution in hungarian, i.e. town hall or hôtel de ville, in addition to the official romanian inscription in the town with a 93% hungarian population. i voice my community's dissatisfaction with the ruling, which is disproportionate, and a complete affront to the european values. it goes against what the law allows and what is required by international conventions that romania has ratified. such an incredible decision increases tension, distrust of the majority society and the judiciary. there is a need for a settlement of the majority-minority relationship, dialogue and solutions in romania. the retaliation serves neither the interests of the romanian nor the hungarian community, nor the general interests of the country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in all the eurobarometers, health is a very important concern of european citizens and everyone expects the european institutions to do more. important progress has been made in this legislature: better legislation on medical devices, progress on the assessment of medical technologies, the foundations of a more ambitious health programme have been laid and the largest health research programme is being prepared, in which paediatric cancer will play a very important role. the election campaign is a good opportunity to discuss and see how we can do better in the future at european level in the field of health and be more ambitious in the period ahead. we're going to have to do a better job of fighting cancer, reducing inequalities, fighting hospital-acquired infections, providing better access to innovation, especially in medicine, and preparing our health systems for the digital revolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is little time left before the end of the current parliamentary term and it is regrettable that in these last weeks of work the european forum and commission representatives have already started the election campaign. and the target of this election campaign, in which parties and politicians from the european level were involved, became romania. this seems unacceptable to me. today we had a debate with a predictable outcome, romania being unfairly criticized again by the same already recognized voices. romania has chosen to behave with dignity in the face of these attacks, not to respond with the same coin, even if the double standard is obvious. we do not comment on corruption cases in other european countries, nor on the sovereign right of the member states to decide their own justice legislation. what is disturbing is that these criticisms either do not refer to concrete elements or they concern decisions that do not actually exist in romania, which is not normal. i call for an end to these approaches. the electoral campaign must not affect the image and construction of the european project - a positive and necessary project in which citizens believe and from which they expect solutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the end of this parliamentary term, i would like to point out that, despite the differences in our political approach, the european union project is ready to go further and make progress towards a europe of cohesion. i note and appreciate that for the first time in the history of the european union, cohesion policy is being put at the forefront. the cohesion policy portfolio will thus have the largest allocation in the 2021-2027 budget, namely eur 373 billion, with romania, bulgaria and greece projecting an increase of more than 10% in cohesion funds allocations compared to current amounts. it is an important signal to citizens of the states that joined later and where the so-called 'multi-speed europe plan' was not very well received. in this respect, i welcome the european commission's initiative, which sends a positive signal that, despite all the discussions over the past few years on the future of europe, we are determined to live and develop together, with as few differences as possible between member states. europe together is and must remain our objective.
this is lieutenant libb. madam president, allow me to greet two friends from the gallery. commissioner, thank you very much for this proposal and for the work of the last year. i congratulate mr boiangiu and i congratulate the romanian rotating presidency on the fact that we have managed to complete this negotiation in less than a year. the next european labour authority has a very important mission and the commissioner has raised a number of issues that will be achieved thanks to this authority. what do i want? i wish that authority was in romania and i have arguments. because at the level of romania we have this system called revisal, through which we offer a transparency that we don't find in other member states. we provide the fastest responses to european requests for cross-border cooperation and the necessary data on the workers we post, who we send to other member states. this qualifies us and i think it is a guarantee that if this authority is based in romania, it will have the same results as the rotating presidency of romania in all that the labour field means.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the recent escalation in libya started at a moment just when the possibility for peace was becoming real. the lna, led by general haftar, attacked tripoli at the very time when un secretary-general guterres was visiting the country and on the eve of the national conference, a conference that still has the potential to represent a new beginning for libya. the european union has worked for almost one year together – very closely together – with the united nations and the special envoy to prepare the ground for a libyan-led and libyan-owned national conference that would prepare the ground for elections under the appropriate legal and constitutional conditions, and we have seen day by day the aspiration, the readiness, the desire of all the libyan people, the citizens of libya, to move their country forward, to turn the page, to unite and build unity and peace for a country that has potentially an enormous capacity to move forward, a lot of resources and a lot of potential. the national conference still represents the hope of an entire country. and just a few days before that military escalation took place, i was myself, together with guterres, with the secretary general of the league of arab states, with the chairperson of the african union and with ghassan salamé, the un special envoy, in tunis at the margins of the league of arab states summit, reaffirming the unity of the international community to support this libyan-led, libyan-owned political process that would have helped in turning the page and uniting the country in peace. the offensive against tripoli has been, is still, an attack against hope, an attack against the concrete perspective of achieving peace in libya, and we have seen this happen before. when peace becomes a real possibility – concrete, possible – it is then also that we see that the resistance against peace gets stronger and more evident. now we are facing a protracted conflict with victims in high numbers, including civilians, and a stalemate on the ground. a situation that is blocked on the ground in terms of the line of the conflict, but still very active in terms of clashes, with the use of arms that we shouldn’t be seeing used in libya. this confirms what we have always known in europe and in the international community, at least in recent years – the reason there cannot be any military solution to the libyan conflict. if the war continues, it will only lead to greater suffering and if someone continues to seek military victory everybody will lose. the only scenario where the whole country, where all libyans, in an inclusive and unified manner, move forward, is a negotiated political solution. if the libyan parties will not seek a win-win solution that the international community, starting with the european union, would be ready to accompany and support – and the libyan parties will not seek, i would say, a win-win solution – then all the people of libya will continue to suffer and the entire region will continue to suffer. i just spoke again today with the un special envoy, ghassan salamé. our work is joint and the european union supports his work on a daily basis. our support for his work, i would say, is even stronger today than it has ever been in the past, along three main lines on which the european union and our member states have acted united in these last weeks. first, to affirm the need to open humanitarian corridors as a matter of urgency and fully respect humanitarian international law.second, to establish an immediate ceasefire, that i am sure the un is ready to negotiate. third, to go back to the political track with the holding of the national conference as soon as possible to give libyans, the libyan people, men and women of all generations, of all cities and in the countryside of the country, the chance to outline their common way forward. these are the three elements on which i am sure – for sure the european union, for sure the united nations – but i’m sure also the rest of the international community would be ready to support and accompany the libyan people. let me add that it is not only libyans, not only the region, that are suffering. refugees and migrants trapped in detention centres are also at risk. we are working with the iom and with unhcr to evacuate them outside libya or to move them to safer places inside libya. the most recent flights that brought dozens of migrants back home safely and voluntarily left tripoli just a few days ago. our work with the un agencies continues but obviously conditions on the ground are more and more difficult by the day and this is also why we call on all parties to allow the swift and unconditional evacuation of detention centres on the front line, as also requested by high commissioner grandi last week. the work we have done together within the un agencies, with the help of the african union on the ground, with the help of the libyan authorities on the ground, has brought in this last year enormous results with tens of thousands of migrants voluntarily and safely repatriated through the work of the iom and those in need of international protection protected through the unhcr channels. the conflict in libya, the escalation from the military perspective – i know that some in europe perceive it as a growing threat of growing flows, but it also represents first and foremost a threat to the lives of those migrants and refugees that are trapped in libya and whose lives are more at risk than others, and for which we have been trying with the un agencies to work to try and save lives and to try and empty the detention centres. the military offensive is also making this work more difficult. to conclude, let me restate very clearly, a swift return to the negotiating table is essential, it is still possible. we believe more than ever that the un track and the national conference are the only real opportunity for a peaceful resolution. the multiplication or the proliferation of different initiatives may lead to destruction that would definitely not be helpful at this moment. humanitarian corridors and respect for international humanitarian law, ceasefire negotiated by the un and a return to the negotiating table and the holding of a national conference as soon as possible, with the full participation of the libyan people. i would like to add that when i say libyan people, i refer to libyan men and women. let me take a moment to praise the libyan women that have been sometimes in the shadow trying to accompany the political process, so far, in difficult conditions and i believe that the european union, together with the united nations, has an interest, as in every conflict we face, in promoting the role of women at the negotiating table and in the reconciliation process on the ground. this is what we are trying to contribute to achieving, supporting the un work, trying to unite the europeans, and i can say that if in the past we have seen different approaches, i believe today that all european union member states understand that our common work is required to avoid libyans turning in different directions and disaggregating the potential of unity through a political dialogue that is in their hands. we stated clearly last time, last week, the european union’s united position along these lines in the name of all the 28 member states, and i would now appeal to all the regional players and the international players to unite in support of the united nations’ work, in support of the political perspective for dialogue and unity in libya, to avoid the libyan stakeholders themselves finding external reasons for disuniting even further. on the european side, i can say that today they find a common, united front in support of the united nations’ efforts to bring the parties around the table and define a common perspective for libya in peace and security.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, the situation in libya in the last week is all the more regrettable because in february, a few weeks ago, an agreement was reached between the head of government, mr al-sarraj, and general haftar. the agreement provided, inter alia, for the organisation of general elections. yet two weeks ago, general haftar abandoned that scenario. he decided to plunge the country into chaos again, endangering the civilian population. it is in fact jeopardising the prospects for a future for the libyans. it is clear that ties with russia and its support abroad are far more important than the support it has at home, apart, of course, from military forces. i fully support what you said: there are only negotiated solutions. we need to rule out the military option and we need to put pressure on haftar to abandon the weapons option.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to the high commissioner and to the whole debate. we agree on the situation, we agree that we are looking for a political solution, that the campaign that general haftar is now waging could destabilize the whole situation even more. but unfortunately i feel that we have no clear strategy, as some colleagues have said, and that we lack concrete action. so what do we do in this difficult situation, what do we try? because i know that the situation is not easy at all for a political solution to this conflict to win. it's a question for you, mrs mogherini. i know that the situation is not simple and that it cannot be resolved by one negotiation, but i am afraid that if we only talk about this on the floor of the european parliament and do not try to do something actively for a peaceful solution, then the result will be what my colleagues have said: further destabilisation and a possible influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees into europe. and that's something we should be dealing with somehow.
vice-president of the commission / high madam representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, first of all i’m sorry that some of the colleagues that asked questions then left the room. i would have loved to answer these questions; maybe i will do that anyway. let me also say it is somehow sad that as we discuss something so serious on which there is no surprise – unfortunately for years now we have been struggling and working, not only the european union, but also the united nations and some of our partners in the region like the african union or the arab league, we have been struggling with the situation – it is somehow sad for me to see that in what is the last part-session of this mandate in parliament there are more spectators at these debates than members of the parliament. sorry to say this, but i think this issue deserves a little bit more attention from your colleagues. but this is praise for those of you who are in the room. i would also like to thank you for the support for the work we have done in these recent weeks. it has not been easy in these recent years to build a common european position on this. you know that the starting points were not necessarily always converging but today we do have a converging european policy and action to stabilise the country, giving the libyans, the citizens, the stakeholders, the different interlocutors, the different institutions, as fragile as they are, as conflictual as they are, the possibility to find their own way to unite in the country. i want to thank this parliament for its support for this work and i think that we have managed to achieve some good work even in these very difficult circumstances. i think we can be proud of at least two things. one is the support we have consistently given to the un and the un special envoys over time. they have always very much counted and relied upon the european union support – politically, financially, diplomatically, and on the ground. i was also very proud of the fact that our personnel went back to tripoli before the personnel of most of our member states. recently this has changed, but i’m looking forward to having them back in tripoli as soon as possible. i myself visited the premises of our offices in tripoli, reinaugurating them after a long period of absence from the city, and i’m very much looking forward to this situation going back to sort of normal – probably it’s never fully normal in libya and for sure not in these times – but i think that the libyans know that the europeans, and the european union as an institution, have always been trying to help in a constructive, honest manner, again, both financially, politically and diplomatically. this has been also thanks to the support of this parliament. the second thing i’m proud of in this difficult environment is the work that we’ve managed to finally start, and that we need to consolidate, on the detention centres, aiming to empty them and close them together with the un agencies. i would have dreamt of a debate in this hemicycle today on libya and libyans and not always on libya and migration, because if the situation is deteriorating on the ground in the military escalation in libya, let me tell you very frankly my first concern is for the human losses, for the deterioration of the perspectives for the political dialogue. obviously there is a risk of migration for the european union but there is first and foremost a risk for the migrants themselves, for their lives, and i thank those of you that have raised this, because i think we have to take into consideration first and foremost the fact that every person we are referring to is a human being, and secondly that there is work we need to do with libya and with libyans for the sake of libya and libyans themselves. it’s not only a transit country: it is a neighbouring country, and it’s a country, that deserves to be treated as a partner from our side. but having said that, yes, in recent years we have started to work with the un agencies the iom and unhcr, and with the african union, to empty detention centres, to combat the trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and in one year or so, we have managed to help the iom and unhcr, and in particular the iom, to evacuate some 40 000 stranded migrants and refugees from the detention centres back to either the unhcr centres from where they are then protected further, and/or to their countries of origin, also with the cooperation of the african union and its member states. obviously all of this work, as i was signalling, in a situation that is militarily escalating and is less secure on the ground, becomes more difficult. this is why i supported, and i reiterate this again, the call that filippo grandi made last week for all the parties to guarantee access to the personnel, the staff of the unhcr and the iom, to the detention centres and this work to be continued because it is extremely important and vital for their own sake. some of you asked me specific questions that relate more to our work on migration than to libya. i’m happy to be very clear on that. i’m on the record already on these issues, i’ve been very clear. no, the european union does not consider libya as a safe country. this is something that not only i, but also other colleagues from the commission, have repeatedly stated. this position has not changed, and it seems quite self-evident given the current circumstances. some of the members of this european parliament asked me about operation sophia. as you know, because this has not been a secret, my suggestion to the member states was not that of withdrawing the naval assets. i’ve always argued in favour of the naval assets remaining in the international waters because they have proven to be a very effective deterrent for the smugglers and the traffickers. if arrivals from libya to italy have gone down by more than 80% in the last couple of years it is thanks to the presence of operation sophia at sea; among other things, but mainly that. obviously you see the contradiction in terms of having a naval operation without naval assets. unfortunately, the decision of member states has been in another direction. i still hope that they can reconsider their decision and decide to redeploy naval assets in the international waters. i think that in these particular circumstances it would make a lot of sense, not only to deter the activities of the smugglers and the traffickers of human beings across the mediterranean, but also to fulfil the duties, the responsibilities, we have taken of implementing the un security council resolutions when it comes to the arms and the oil embargo control which obviously can be much more effectively carried out with a naval presence at sea. i believe – and again i have no problem in saying this in this hemicycle, i’ve said it publicly already, very openly – that without the naval assets operation sophia is not able to fulfil its full mandate in an effective manner, so i hope the member states will reconsider this decision. it’s their responsibility, it’s their choice, and i hope they will come to different conclusions in the coming weeks. i would like to conclude by saying that i would like to thank again all of you from the different political groups for the support for this strong call and strong work that we’re doing on the ground, not since yesterday but for years, together with the un, for at this moment going back to a libyan-owned and a libyan-led political process that can be the only hope for the country to get out of this endless transition, out of the conflict, to de-escalate the military tensions and attacks, and to find a way to create strong inclusive institutions and peace in the country. i believe that we can clearly say that, apart from a few voices, i have seen here broad support for this strong call, first of all for the open humanitarian corridors for delivery of urgent humanitarian aid, an immediate ceasefire, and a return to the political track and the convening of a national conference under the auspices of the un that we have prepared together, supported together, and that i believe still represents the hope for libyans to have a proper country and a proper present and future.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, today we discuss with this debate two separate issues. both originate from the war of 1967, but they are separate ones – on the one hand, the decision by the us administration to recognise the golan heights as israeli territory, and on the other, the israeli government’s settlement policy in the west bank. so let me tackle the two issues separately during this debate. first, the us recognition of the golan heights. the european union has a very simple and clear position that i’ve had the possibility to reiterate and restate in a very clear manner over time. more recently, the european union does not recognise israeli sovereignty over any of the territories occupied by israel since june 1967, in line with international law and with un security council resolutions 242 and 497 – and this also applies to the golan heights. on 27 march, i issued a declaration on behalf of all the 28 member states, clarifying that this is the position of the european union on the status of the golan heights. it has always been our position and it has not changed. in parallel, the five european union member states who currently sit in the un security council, which are the united kingdom, france, germany, belgium and poland, expressed this common position in new york in a joint stakeout. so we always ask for the european union, as member states, to speak with one voice. this was effectively done in this case, and this is not the only one. i have to say, i want to thank the five member states that are currently sitting in the un security council, because the practice of coordinating positions – they’re expressing these positions together, including with public press statements done jointly by the five of them, including meetings with myself to coordinate positions of the eu member states in the security council – is more and more often. i think this is also fulfilling the responsibility that we, as europeans, have to support the multilateral system and the rules-based international order in these times more, in general. coming back to our points on the agenda today, the second issue to discuss is the israeli government’s settlement policy. i will not comment on the potential policies of a future government that is not even established yet. what i can say is what we are seeing in recent times: over the past months, the israeli settlement’s construction has continued. only last week, plans for more than 4600 new housing units were advanced by the israeli authorities. right after the announcement, we issued a statement to repeat that we consider all settlement activity illegal under international law, and that settlements erode the viability of the two-state solution. in fact, the two-state solution is not only fading away; it is being dismantled piece by piece. i think it is important for us, the european union – again, united in this – to say clearly that abandoning the two-state solution would bring greater chaos not only to the holy land, but also to the entire middle east, which is already facing a very difficult situation due to the proliferation of crises we have seen in the region in the last years. the next escalation of violence in israel and palestine could easily spiral out of control, and it would have tragic consequences in a region as unstable as today’s middle east, not to mention the importance that the two-state solution and the creation of a palestinian state consequently has for the entire public opinion in the arab world – again, in a region that has known relevant turmoil in the last years. our first duty, then, is to keep the two—state perspective alive and to preserve the possibility of new negotiations towards peace to take place. in order to be realistic and successful, any future plan for israel and palestine will have to start from the internationally agreed parameters, recognise them, and this includes the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps and the status of jerusalem as the future capital of the two states. on this as well, the european union has been united and very clear over the years and we will continue to do so. the european union will recognise changes to the pre-1967 borders only if and when agreed by the parties, including with regard to jerusalem. this is a principled position, but it is also based on a realistic assessment of the situation on the ground, because the two-state solution is, first and foremost, essential for peace, but is also essential for security, starting from the security of israel. it is essential for democracy, both in israel and in palestine and it is essential to guarantee a truly sustainable economic growth for both israelis and palestinians. and let me add – most importantly, even – it is essential for peace, security and economic growth for the entire region, starting from the neighbouring countries. if the situation does not improve, it will get worse. that is the reality we have seen in these years, and in these difficult times i believe that keeping this perspective alive is the most courageous and the most fruitful contribution we can do and the best service to peace and stability and security in the region. this is what the european union will continue to do in the coming months, with all those who are ready to engage towards a just and lasting and sustainable peace. starting from our arab partners, let me say that in the last few months we’ve had the chance of meeting with the leadership of the arab league countries both in the first-ever european union league of arab states summit in egypt, and, with my participation, the third in a row to the summit of the league of arab states just a few weeks ago. i can tell you that this position of the european union on the two-state solution, but also on the golan heights, has been probably one of the main elements of discussion and is probably one of the main elements that brings together the europeans and the arabs in this difficult moment in our common difficult region. so i’m very much looking forward to continue working together with them on this specific issue that is so important for security and peace in the mediterranean.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, my group opposed this debate. the position of the european union on the golan heights is very clear: in accordance with security council resolutions 242 and 497, israel's sovereignty over the territory is not recognised. you yourself recalled this, madam high representative, in your statements of 27 march. the trump administration's decision will not change the situation on the ground, and the statement on the west bank on april 6 was made in the context of the israeli elections. so there is no reason to support the electoral strategy of the far left in our parliament. our debate will only damage the credibility of the european union as an actor in the peace process. but if we discuss it, we also have to admit that the collapse of the syrian state has created an even more volatile situation around the golan heights. if we want to have a balanced approach, we also need to consider israel's security in the face of the proliferation in the area of shiite, syrian or iranian-backed militias, such as hezbollah.
the commission has already taken action on this. dear maria, you just said that the united states was a rogue state. do you not think that such statements are deeply damaging to the relationship between europe and the united states? do you not consider that the left wing of the socialist party and the far left, who insisted on this debate, are also responsible for the deterioration of our agreement and good working conditions with the united states? how far will you go to irritate the americans, dear maria?
madam president, this house has the responsibility to keep a balanced approach, especially when we are preparing to enter an electoral campaign. it is a very good thing that we are talking about the golan heights this evening, but a debate about the golan heights must also refer to the grave security risk israel confronts in the north. i should name iranian entrenchment in syria, shia militias in syria and the hezbollah terror organisation. the eu, in order to keep a balanced approach, must also show commitment to israel’s security. colleagues, correct me if i’m wrong, but i would say that this debate does not serve any purpose, as the situation on the ground is unchanged and the position of the european union is well known.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr tarand, you said, among other things - and i agree - that these are manipulations by platforms. on the other hand, you said you're not a facebook friend. however, digitization has to exist, we have this program. how do you see, then, to stop doing the manipulation? as you see that facebook, where, despite all the warnings that we've given here, there are still fake accounts, there's a copy of the identity data, you block it and it pops up again... how do you see us getting rid of these things, especially now around the election?
the reporter. mr president, commissioner moedas, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today four months after the plenary debate before the negotiations and ten months after the commission presented the new horizon europe research and innovation framework programme. horizon europe is a highly important programme for the future, with an impact on the union's research and innovation environment for the next budgetary period and with an impact on the union's economy, competitiveness and living standards. through science, innovation and fundamental research, europe can become competitive and remain at the forefront of global research and innovation, creating quality jobs. before this debate i reviewed the key points for the european parliament and i can say that the outcome of these negotiations - this partial agreement - is a success because: (1) the principle of excellence remains the basic principle in the selection of all projects and excellence is supported and promoted throughout the union. at least 35% of the total budget of this programme will be allocated to supporting the european union's climate objectives, which will stimulate greener products with sustainable added value for end-users. the sme instrument will continue in a form as close as possible to that of horizon 2020. the new eic instrument will thus have at least 70% of the budget dedicated to smes and the possibility of having the equivalent of horizon 2020 grants for smes. 4.the union-wide research and innovation gap will be reduced by increasing participation in horizon europe compared to the previous framework programme for member states with low research and innovation performance, and by providing a budget of 3,3% of the future framework programme for these countries in the widening component of the programme. only if we are all more competitive in research and innovation will we make europe truly competitive in these areas. 5.the novelties such as the eic - the european innovation council - and the missions will contribute to the competitiveness of the european union on the one hand and produce tangible results for all european citizens on the other. five mission areas have been established: one - adaptation to climate change, two - cancer, three - healthy oceans, four - crime-neutral cities, five - food and soil health, and we look forward to selecting the first missions that will have to respond to the needs of citizens. since the last two framework programmes, there has been an increasing emphasis on innovation - and we do not dispute its importance - but horizon europe must support all stages of research and innovation, including collaboration in basic research. research is excellent and, in particular, fundamental research is an essential element and an important condition for meeting the european union's policy objectives and priorities. the programme aims at continued administrative simplification and reduction of the burden on beneficiaries. i would like to stress that the european parliament has been a serious and committed partner in terms of content, as well as in terms of the extremely ambitious timetable. this result will be validated by the plenary vote on this partial agreement. the results of these negotiations demonstrate a strong commitment to citizens and our research community. i would also like to stress that the issues that are not the subject of these negotiations, such as the budget and international cooperation, synergies, the european parliament is committed to discussing them in the next european parliament, together with a budget of 120 billion euro - our proposal. i would like to thank them in particular: the romanian presidency, which has played an extraordinary role in completing this dossier, commissioner moedas and his team for the extraordinary way in which they have managed to work and produce these results, and my colleagues - many of whom are in this room - for the extraordinary way in which they have collaborated, because for the first time the european parliament has had unanimity within the political groups. thank you all and i wish you all success and enjoyment together at horizon europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, horizon europe will be the most ambitious research and innovation programme in the world. i would like to thank and congratulate all the other rapporteurs, i thank the commissioner and the romanian presidency for the excellent work done in record time, and as rapporteur for the envi commission, i am honoured that the proposal in our committee's report to prioritise cancer research and innovation was also approved at council level. i also stress that 35% of the total budget of the 120 billion programme will be devoted to combating climate change, a recommendation also made by the envi commission. i also welcome the support of my colleagues to increase the budget allocated to health from eur 7.7 billion to eur 9.12 billion, which will allow us to tackle the enormous challenges in health more effectively. in particular, innovative solutions in the field of oncology are vital for future generations, given that 35 000 new cases of cancer are reported among young europeans every year.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who took the floor today and noted that we managed to take all the proposals that came from all the standing committees and this showed that there was absolutely remarkable unanimity at parliament level. i would like to thank my colleague christian ehler for the remarkable, impeccable way in which we collaborated and worked together and for the openness that he showed, and i thank ambassador boiangiu, for getting us out of a deadlock and getting this project off the ground. commissioner moedas, the last words are for you. i know that the present commission will remain in office - so to speak - until april next year. so the good news is you have one more year. and this year, i want to ask you a few things. start making sure that this horizon europe programme will not be affected by bureaucracy - so reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden, so that researchers can deal with research and as little paperwork as possible - reduce the period in which a researcher can access and already put into practice the bottom-up mechanisms that have been introduced in this horizon europe programme and which will be highly appreciated, start the information campaign from the technical assistance funds - countries like romania and many others need this information campaign. everyone needs to know how horizon europe is implemented, what the procedures are and who has to do what, and the benefits will be ours, everyone's. and i assure you that i will be in the future european parliament and we will have the opportunity to work together, starting in the autumn, to make sure that all this happens, because your work, my work and the work of my colleagues must be reflected in practice immediately, as you said, after the vote tomorrow. thank you for all the support you've given me.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation was certainly long overdue, because, yes, the single market and the free movement of goods are fundamental to the future of europe. obviously we also had to have supervision, better supervision, because the entry of many imports into the internal market complicates the situation and we have to harmonize, as the regulation says. and i'm glad that we have a european union network and that we have benchmarks and that we're going to have common control rules. but let's not forget that we have to tie these regulations together, we have to have a way to check in customs. the report on the customs union is not yet completed, and then there is no point in having common procedures if we do not have computerized customs, if we do not have this customs union regulation. but i'm confident that in the next term, we'll finish them. i regret that i myself was rapporteur on the customs union and that we were unable to reach the institutional negotiations. today, however, we voted for it, and i hope, commissioner, that the regulation will not remain a mere theory, but will also be put into practice through cooperation between the national authorities.
in writing. as rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism on the dossier on promoting fairness and transparency between service providers and online platforms, my objective in this dossier was to ensure a transparent and fair environment for all actors involved in the digital economy: the service provider, the online platforms and the consumer, who is in fact the european citizen. in the context of the rapid evolution of digital technologies, my vision is that digitisation is the future. this requires the creation of a fairly regulated digital environment in which traditional business models do not suffer as a result of the digitisation process. given the very horizontal nature of the european commission's proposal for a regulation, i am very pleased that we have managed to regulate some fundamental aspects of promoting and ensuring transparency and fairness. in particular, we have introduced very clear provisions for online platforms to apply the criteria for the hierarchy of service providers in a non-discriminatory way. in my view, it is essential to have a balance between traditional forms of business and those based solely on digital technologies, such as the sharing economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the guidelines needed to be amended. and the current proposal actually amends four directives: unfair commercial practices, consumer rights, unfair contractual terms and price indication. of course, most of the changes are in the first two directives. we really need to have a quality of products that is unique in the internal market, to respect consumers wherever they live. we must say, at the same time, that, yes, some good changes have been made and we cannot ignore them. i'm talking about the consumer's right to withdraw from the contract, the consumer's right to compensation. obviously, the compromise did not achieve what many of us here wanted, which is to be more clear about what happens to dual quality. because, yes, i was presented with an amendment to article 6 of the directive, but by introducing those exceptions, it has weakened the power of article 6 very much. of course we have a review clause and there may be a solution and i urge my colleagues - there are not many of us here - to consider what is better: to reject or to vote and wait for the review clause. we all want good quality for all consumers.
mr. chairman, i too am disappointed by the compromise reached at the trialogue. i am convinced that this compromise will not lead to the elimination of dual quality food in practice. we end up interpreting what double, extensive or even substantial differences in composition and character mean, we end up in court battles and those who produce under the same name double food of different quality will laugh at it. you'll see that's the result. commissioner, i am convinced, and i am willing to bet with you, that this legislation, if it is finally passed, will not really punish anyone and will end up interpreting the vague legal terms with which the compromise definition is clogged. i was also in favour of making it clear that dual quality food is an unfair business practice without further ado. such relaxation will only result in the wealthy firms that practice this practice being able to find a way with their teams of lawyers to sell their inferior goods further into eastern europe. i am saddened by this, i do not agree with it, i can only state that unfortunately the czech government supported this compromise material, thereby stabbing a little in the back of its own citizens. i would be very happy if the material prepared by the ladies of the house, which i have co-signed, were to be adopted tomorrow, and if it would be a chance to make it clear that those who have and produce products under the same name of different quality must not do such a thing. it's an unfair business practice without looking at how big the differences are, where the scale of that difference is significant and where it's not. so i ask that you support mrs. sehnall's motion.
mr president, i know that the negotiations were difficult and it is not easy to find a good balance between the need to enforce better consumer rights and the need for businesses to be competitive and efficient. it is true that, for the first time, there are concrete references in the legislation regarding double standards and member states can take coercive measures. but we should be more ambitious and double standards should be better addressed in our legislation as these practices are undermining the trust of european citizens, mainly from central and eastern european countries, in our common market. so tomorrow we should support the amendment by my colleague, róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein, which is the same text that was voted initially in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and, with this, the legislation will be better improved.
mr president, commissioner, there is a double standard and we must recognize it and do everything we can to eliminate it. whatever arguments are made for the double standard, whether we think or you think that eastern europeans' tastes are different from those of western europeans, i say very clearly to you, mr president, i say very clearly to you, commissioner, eastern europeans are tired of having inferior products. we are tired of having substandard food, we are tired of having substandard clothing, and we are tired of having substandard cars, substandard cars, than the western market. i assure you that all europeans in the former communist bloc for 30 years have become accustomed to quality, they have become accustomed to the taste of democracy, not far from the inferior tastes of western europeans. we can no longer afford to lie to ourselves and we can no longer afford to be lied to by anyone. products destined for the western market must be of the same quality as those destined for the eastern market. we are not inferior, discrimination within the european union must stop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, certain provisions in mr dalton's report simply wipe out all the work that i, together with our colleague, mrs olga sehnalová and mrs borzan, have done over the last two years on the report on the double standard. romanians and other western european consumers will ask themselves: what does europe do for me? why does europe treat its citizens differently? if the values on which this union is built are respected equally by all of us, why does europe not treat us equally? it's not fair to the citizens who vote for us at home and send us here because they trust us to defend their interests. or do we just want to protect the interests of the big businessmen who are building their businesses? i am ashamed that under my country's presidency it was agreed that romanians should be treated as second-class citizens, because it seems to me that they did not know what they were putting on paper. the right of a trader to adapt products of the same brand in different geographic markets due to legitimate factors seems to me a great insult.
madam president, i would like first to congratulate commissioner andriukaitis and the whole european commission for the excellent proposal, and our colleague, madam pilar ayuso, for the comprehensive report. it is extremely important for the european union to regain citizens’ trust and maximise the transparency of scientific studies in the field of food safety, especially after the well-known controversies regarding and related to the authorisation of certain sensitive products such as genetically-modified organisms, or certain active substances such as neonicotinoids and the already-famous glyphosate. in the last trilogue, parliament managed to reach a balanced, provisional agreement with the council, establishing a process of evaluation which is independent, transparent and inclusive and involves the online publication of all studies by the european food safety authority and a continuous dialogue with civil society in order to ensure the exclusive predominance of public interest. however, in order to ensure the full success of this legislative framework, it is of high importance, and i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the vast majority of member states to encourage their experts to become members of the scientific risk-assessment groups, for the reason that currently, only six member states provide two-thirds of the total number of experts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation is of paramount importance because it provides for a derogation for our european companies, allowing them to manufacture a generic or biosimilar version of a protected medicinal product if this version is exclusively intended for export to third countries or for storage pending entry into the union market from the first day following the expiry of the corresponding supplementary certificate. this will enable our producers to compete on the market in third countries where supplementary protection does not exist or has expired and will also give our citizens timely access to medicines at reduced prices, especially in member states where the prices of essential medicines are really too high. i would like to end by thanking the rapporteur, mr luis de grandes pascual, for his excellent work.
in writing. given the particular importance of the availability and affordability of medicines for public health and public expenditure, existing disparities in national legislation which hamper the free movement of medicines in the internal market should be eliminated. the eu should also promote investment in research and innovation necessary to develop a new generation of medicines that support the treatment of new diseases or generate greater therapeutic effects, and prevent the relocation of pharmaceutical research outside the union to countries that could offer better protection, while ensuring access to medicines in the eu. boosting the competitiveness of regulated industries such as the pharmaceutical industry, under the single market strategy, can be achieved through patents and supplementary protection certificates (spcs). thus, a manufacturer with an export production line will easily be able, after the expiry of the spc, to use the same line for generic or biosimilar medicines in order to supply the eu market quickly.
madam president, commissioner, i want to thank you very much for your work, for your proposal and for the way you defend - let us say - or fight against this indexation of social benefits for child rearing. i want to thank you for the firm stance you have always taken and will continue to take. i want you to tell us, maybe at the end, how we stand in austria, what happens with that infringement procedure, whether or not you extend this procedure. i would point out, however, that in this debate some of my colleagues who consider themselves to be on the left forget that a few years ago we voted against social dumping in the european parliament. back then, they said "equal pay for equal work". my dear colleagues, for equal work, equal social protection throughout europe! let us not lose any more votes to the far right and let us continue to be pro-european. this programme, this report is a compromise, but it is one that takes the european union further. it's one that needs to be voted on and we need to keep working on it.
madam president, commissioner, i do not understand the position of some of my colleagues here. this is a total mess! we do not want to make a single social security system, but to respect it for the worker who benefits from mobility and goes to a state - to respect the same security system as for the native worker. it is incredible that we want a single market, that we want workers to be mobile, but that we do not want to have equal pay and equal security. sure, it's not the best option, but let's compare it -- nothing with what this report brings. it's a compromise, i support it. we need to stop having cases like austria, which has diminished and is in infringement now. but the danish prime minister has also announced that he will apply a reduction in allowances or differentiated allowances for the children of workers from other states. do we want a united europe? do we want a single market? that's in the treaty. and then we have to respect not only equal pay for equal work, but we have to respect security systems.
mr president, dear prime minister, i would like to thank you for your robust, pragmatic and consistent speech, and equally for your realistic and consistent assessments and contributions. i share many of your contributions. my country, romania, and i see russia like you and your country do. so, in this context, how does latvia assess the building up of european defence, and what future relationship between european defence and nato should we envisage?
in writing. an integral part of the debate on the future of europe is the analysis of relations with the eastern partnership countries. these countries want to get closer to the european union, but unfortunately their noble declarations are not always backed up by deeds. we must remind our neighbours that the eu is not just a union of economic benefits, but also a union of values. respect for human dignity, respect for laws and regulations must not only be taught but also practiced. on 6 april, the ukrainian authorities refused to allow the entry into the country of kelemen hunor, the federal president of the rmdsz, a representative of the parliament of romania travelling on a diplomatic passport, without providing any explanation. he was simply told that he could not enter ukraine. he was also the first to be arrested in connection with the 'security' and 'criminal' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. all this is done by ukraine, whose citizens can travel to eu countries without a visa! our space limit is exceeded by the actions of the ukrainian authorities. there are grounds for suspecting that kelemen hunor could have been placed on the banned list because, as the president of the rmdsz, he had always taken decisive action against the abuses against the transcarpathian hungarian community. we will continue to do so in the future, all of us, the politicians of the rmdsz, when the rights of our transcarpathian brothers are trampled underfoot by the ukrainian state. the hungarian unity in the carpathian basin is not a slogan for us, but a hungarian national cause. we strongly demand an end to anti-hungarian incidents in ukraine and throughout the carpathian basin!
the next item is the debate on the report of ms roberta metsola, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing council joint action 98/700/jha, regulation (eu) no 1052/2013 of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (eu) 2016/1624 of the european parliament and of the council (com ((2018) 0631 c8-0406/2018 2018/0330 ((cod)) (a8-0076/2019).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 810/2009 on the establishment of a community code on visas (visa code) (com ((2018) 0252 c8-0114/2018 2018/0061 ((cod)) (a8-0434/2018).
we thank you commissioner. we also thank you for your cooperation and, with the previous report, you can say that you were present at the creation, to invoke a title which has a certain aura around it. thank you very much for everything you have done, and we are sure that our colleagues appreciate your activity.
colleagues, the reason why you find us still debating is that, this being the last part-session for many of our colleagues, there were also some personal additions to the speeches, and therefore i would ask for your understanding in this situation. catch-the-eye procedure
well, what shall we do? we live only once.
colleagues, thank you for coming in this great number to see how i thank you, and i wish you all the best, because this is also my last appearance in an official function. all the best to you all. (applause) the debate is closed.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i begin with you, thank you very much for the excellent way you have negotiated. in a volatile, multipolar world facing multiple new and hybrid threats, it is essential that the european union reinforces its role as an influential and effective global actor. the european union's security and defence policy is now a major priority for all our citizens and has therefore found its echo in the recently adopted policy. the development of our common defence policy is undoubtedly one of the main contributions to the implementation of the european union's overall strategy. the aim of the legislative proposal, negotiated fairly and effectively with the council, is to establish the european defence fund under the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework in order to respond to the growing priority given to defence and security in our union, to address the beginning or start of the resolution of the high fragmentation of the defence sector and to avoid duplication and inefficiency, to encourage the collaborative procurement of defence equipment. in addition, the overall objectives of the defence fund - as announced - have been key priorities for my political group, which advocates - and i quote - 'for greater efficiency in the defence industry and promotes an integrated internal market for defence assets and eu support for research and development'. ladies and gentlemen, i once again stress the need to continue the process of promoting a multilateral rules-based order, as enshrined in the un charter, and to strengthen cooperation with nato, the only guarantee of collective security on our continent. as i have had the privilege of working on this file for the last few years, allow me to recommend that you vote with confidence tomorrow. and, as my last speech in parliament, let me say to you all - thank you from the bottom of my heart for these 12 years of working for the european project. and, madame grossetête, we are peaceful but never naive.
mr president, my colleagues have already said a great deal about this proposal, this investment plan. i join in, i consider the investeu project to be extremely important. the experience of the juncker plan clearly shows that such forms of incentives have their purpose and that, if well targeted, they have a great public purpose, especially in areas where it is more difficult to obtain traditional commercial credit. i very much welcome the focus of this project on areas such as smes, on areas where we are tackling eco-innovation, on environmental issues, or on areas that are related to research in general. i think that in the future this project can make a very significant contribution to the european economy, there's talk of a big multiplier effect that these public incentives and public guarantees for private credit can have. i am glad that after the juncker plan experience we are not ending up with nothing else coming after the juncker plan, but that we are evaluating this plan, following it up with another variant for the period 2021-2027, for the next financial framework, and that we have learned from the juncker plan's weaknesses and are trying to improve them in the new project. i welcome this project and hope that it will be successfully negotiated in the next european parliament and then successfully launched from 2021.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their work. investeu is one of the main policies of the european union, aiming, inter alia, at attracting private investment that will be guaranteed at union level, so as to provide greater investor certainty. the natural consequence of such an approach is a simple one, namely a better life for all european citizens, achieved through achieving the objectives of economic and social convergence, increasing competitiveness, encouraging innovation, digitalisation and the responsible use of resources. based on current experience, which shows that investments have been concentrated, however, in certain member states, the selection of projects financed by investeu should take into account a geographical distribution that is as uniform as possible across all member states, in order to avoid the risk of accentuating development disparities between regions. smes have significant economic value at union level, but they face complicated procedures for accessing investment finance. investeu should support them by simplifying funding procedures, avoiding excessive red tape, both at european and national level, in order to foster competitiveness. at the same time, the attractiveness of smaller or local projects aiming to maximise resources on the ground needs to be increased by creating and supporting the expansion of innovation clusters and the development of innovative products competitive on international markets. public authorities must have easy access to funding solutions for programmes to encourage creative industries, alternative clean transport or facilitate common workspaces.
mr president, commissioner, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that we are so few in number to debate a very important regulation: sustainable investment and the elimination of sustainability risks. we all want that, and we know that sustainable investments in finance have a lot to do with the sustainability of investments. we have in the european union policy a policy of reindustrialisation. it is obviously linked to this regulation and i am very glad that we are able to vote on this regulation in the last 100 metres. sustainability of finance should not be blocked and there should be no financing without sustainability. but we need, as i said here, consumer education, because we need to know everything before we access a loan. then, of course, there must be better risk management. but you can't manage risk well, and especially long-term risk, if you don't have the information. more transparency. of course the regulation will increase overall economic sustainability.
mr president, our group has been trying for several months to get an urgent resolution on this subject on the agenda. i am glad that we have finally achieved this for this last session of our parliament. we have also reported in other contexts on the flagrant violations of human rights in china. the 10 million uighurs and kazakhs who are being held in mass detention in xinjiang's re-education camps, the tibetans facing enforced disappearances, physical violence, prolonged detention without trial or arrests for their religious beliefs have already been mentioned. i must also mention the christians who are constantly harassed. their homes and churches were destroyed, their pastors and priests arrested. all of this gives a very different picture of what xi jinping wants to convey to the world. i would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work you have done, madam high representative, over the last five years in the field of foreign affairs and human rights, which are an essential part of this in the eyes of europe. i believe that this is what makes europe unique and we must continue along this line. i'm finally going to say goodbye to my colleagues. i am leaving parliament and will be following what is going on here from afar. it's a really beautiful institution.
mr president, just a few weeks ago the vice—governor of tibet said that the human rights situation in tibet is not just good, but very good. all ethnic groups in the region appreciate the communist party’s work; they listen and follow the party. apparently tibetans never had it any better, enjoying the fruits of fast-paced economic development. thousands of police and military patrol the streets to ensure they get all the help they need, or perhaps to make sure that they do not accidentally set themselves on fire. but fortunately, it is not just the tibetans who have it so good. the uyghurs also enjoy all the benefits of the 21st century’s most advanced artificial intelligence and digital surveillance technologies to make their lives easier and more comfortable. arguably, they also have access to the world’s most extensive lifelong-learning system in dedicated ‘education and training centres’. by the same measure, we could confidently say that the eu—china human rights dialogue is a successful instrument in promoting human rights and our values. i’m sorry i missed my speaking time due to technical problems. thanks for listening to my previous china debate speech. it was my last speech after 11 years in the parliament.
good morning everybody. welcome to the european parliament – the house of democracy and the only european institution elected by the citizens.
in accordance with the act of 20 september 1976 concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage and article 154 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, i declare the first sitting of the european parliament after the european elections open.
welcome to the house, good work to new members and those who were members before today.
we will now hear the european anthem performed by the avena quartet and the singer anaïs yvoz. i thank the singer and the musicians. please stand. (the president addresses a number of members who remained seated) standing up is a matter of respect, it does not mean sharing the european union. even when you hear the anthem of another country you stand up! (applause) i would like to thank (the quartet avena and the singer anaïs yvoz play the "hymn to joy")
i would remind you that, under rule 14 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, no debate may take place under the chairmanship of the member who is acting as president on a temporary basis, the subject of which is not the election of the president or the verification of credentials. i am presiding over this sitting because the rules of procedure provide that the outgoing president, if elected, is to preside over the sitting temporarily. all official documents constituting the basis for the election of members shall be forwarded to the committee responsible for verifying credentials, which shall be set up in accordance with rule 206. in accordance with rule 3 (2), until the credentials of a member have been verified or a decision taken on any objections, the member shall sit with full rights in parliament and its bodies, provided that he has previously signed the written declaration of incompatibility. members of the european parliament who hold a post incompatible with that of member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 7 of the act of 20 september 1976 concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage may not take up their duties. in order to enjoy their full rights, the 29 members who have not yet signed the declaration of non-compatibility are invited to do so immediately at the stands at the entrance to the chamber. otherwise, they will not be allowed to vote tomorrow.
tomorrow morning we shall elect the president of the european parliament, in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure. according to rule 15 (1), candidates for the office of president of parliament must be put forward with the consent of the candidates by a political group or at least 38 members. the deadline for applications is today at 10 p.m.
are you asking to speak only to discuss the vote? because the only thing that can be talked about is the election of the president. you can't talk about other things.
mr president, i rise under rule 5 of parliament’s rules of procedure and also in relation to the issue of accreditation. i want to congratulate all the meps who have been elected and been here today, but unfortunately some elected meps have been denied access to this house. three representatives of the catalan people have been denied representation in this house. this house needs to stand up for democracy and needs to stand up for human rights. (applause)if this house doesn’t value the votes of the people of catalonia, then the credibility of this house itself will be undermined. so i ask you today, mr president, to make a statement on behalf of the elected meps of this institution, therefore reinforcing the value of democracy and human rights across europe. (sustained applause)
we now proceed to the drawing of lots for the appointment of the eight electors. mr. jan olbrycht, will you accept the duties of the scrutinator? (jan olbrycht agrees to the request) mr. peter jahr, will you accept the duties of the scrutinator? (peter jahr agrees to the request) mr henrik overgaard nielsen, do you agree to take over the duties of the polling station? (the president declared the common position approved as amended) mr. jerzy buzek, do you agree to act as an assessor? (jerzy buzek agrees to the request) mr. bernard guetta, will you accept the duties of the scrutinator? (bernard guetta accepts the proposal) ms. alexandra lesley phillips, do you agree to serve as an examiner? (alexandra lesley phillips agrees to the request) ms. barbara thaler, do you agree to serve as an examiner? (barbara thaler agrees to the request) ms. catherine chabaud, do you agree to serve as an assessor? (catherine chabaud agrees) the following members were appointed as members of the committee: the president of the republic shall be elected by the first-past-the-post system of proportional representation by secret ballot. the election of the president will take place tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
this court is adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 10.24 a.m.)
this morning we shall be electing the president in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure and not on the basis of decisions and proposals from outside. this is a free and independent parliament. (applause) i would like to thank i have received, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure, the following nominations for the office of president of the european parliament: all the candidates have confirmed to me that they accept their nominations.
before we begin the vote, i will briefly address each candidate in alphabetical order. each candidate will have five minutes to speak.
dear colleagues, but most importantly, dear european citizens. five weeks ago you as citizens used your right to vote and elected us as your representatives. you have given us the mandate to shape the future of this house, and also the future of the european union, and i want to thank you for putting your trust in this institution. but you have also given us a very clear message, and the message is that the european project is very much alive. you, the voters, have answered the hateful and divisive rhetoric of the populist right with a clear pro-european message, and i thank you for that. (applause) dear colleagues, the past elections have seen an increased voter turnout, and this is a very encouraging sign, but it also means responsibility to us as the european parliament. thanks to the voters, we now have a strong mandate to decide on the future of europe and to hold the commission and the member states accountable. and as parliamentarians we have received a mandate to strengthen the european parliament as an institution. and i say: let’s strengthen the parliament today and let’s strengthen it together by electing a parliament president that embodies the independence of our institution. we cannot accept that the presidency of this house is being treated as a bargaining chip in old-school backroom council negotiations. this is not the signal we need to send to the citizens. there can be no doubt the european union is more important than ever. in the wake of climate crisis, growing social inequalities and international confrontation, we need europe more than ever. but as eu institutions we haven’t always been very successful in reaching out to the citizens and telling them, convincing them, that we are actually working for them, addressing the issues that are most important to them. and as president i want to renew the trust and i want to make sure that the european parliament is the space where citizens are discussing. in the past few years we have been having debates on the future of europe with heads of state and government, with presidents and so on, and this has been very interesting. but why not now change the direction and say “we’ll open the house and discuss the future of the european union with the citizens, with civil society, with the people that shape our continent today”? in parliament we clearly defend human rights, democracy, the rule of law, and as parliament president i want to be the ambassador for exactly those values and principles. and in order also to be credible as an institution we need to work, always and every day, to make sure we are fulfilling the principles that we ask others to fulfil, be it transparency, be it gender equality, be it inclusion, workers’ rights, and also reducing our ecological footprint. and, dear colleagues, the european union is the biggest historic achievement of our continent. it has ensured peace, friendship and prosperity on a continent that used to be dominated by war and by hatred. as elected members of the european parliament we have a shared responsibility to honour and to defend this historic achievement that we have inherited. i was born in a country that was divided by the iron curtain. i have lived on the border between poland and germany. i have seen for myself what it means when europe brings people together, when europe overcomes borders in the mines and on the ground. and i see also for myself a personal responsibility to defend that european heritage. in order to defend europe we also need to show the courage to change it for the better and, as the only directly elected eu institution, the european parliament has a key role in making this leap forward. this house has been for many years fighting to defend and increase our rights as parliament, because that means increasing the rights and representation of the citizens, the citizens who elect us, who send us to this chamber. and to continue this work on parliamentary rights, i am running today for the honour of chairing this parliament and i would be grateful for your support. (applause)
mr president, it is a matter of pride to represent the candidacy of a group which is small in numbers but which is firmly committed to defending the interests of the peoples of europe and, in particular, of working people. we put forward this motion because we are convinced that while some groups and governments in europe have traded in chairs, the lives out there and the future of millions of people depend on the decisions we take in this parliament. that is why it is essential for us to talk about which side the person who will preside over this house in the coming years will be on. will you continue to side with the lobbies and the multinationals? will he be on the european side of the walls? will it continue to feed the monster of neo-fascism or, as we want, will it once and for all take the side of the people, the workers and human rights? we are certainly in favour of a parliament which responds to the needs of our peoples, which attaches its mandate to popular sovereignty and, above all, which works to ensure that the european union stops making progress at the expense of the exploitation of women workers and the natural resources of the planet. we are aware that the economic policies of the eu have left entire countries in the dark. in spain, greece and portugal we have suffered particularly. the neoliberal doctrine on which the european union is built creates suffering, unemployment, precariousness and inequality. these policies are leading us to a life without future and a life without hope, and not just in the economic sense. these same policies and the production and consumption models that they entail are also co-responsible for the ecosocial crisis and the climate emergency that our planet is experiencing. denying this is cheating. the green veneer that the european union is applying to its policies is not going to solve a problem that we are already clearly beginning to suffer from in each of our states. we believe that this should be one of the main issues that this house is dealing with and that is why we are asking you to support our proposal to create a special committee on the climate emergency. it's imperative now. but there's more. the neoliberal policies of this european union are what breed the monster of fascism. here you have the far right and also those who adopt their xenophobic, racist and sexist policies. we will not allow this parliament to normalize hate speech or to justify the violation of human rights by hiding behind a deceptive security discourse. a few days ago carola rackete was arrested. a heroine who saves lives in the mediterranean, however much mr salvini wants to criminalise her work. that is why we propose that in future this parliament should provide legal protection and cover for anyone who is persecuted for saving lives. and i, coming from the south, from the country of 8m, from the country that by the time we stop women, i know, we know, that feminism is the great antidote to stopping fascism. we know you're here to challenge everything. and it proposes an entirely new society. we ask governments and the european commission to stop deceiving us. women are not content to be quotas, we want feminist policies, we want to make life and care a political category, and that is why we are going to demand that feminism be present on the agenda of the institutions and of this parliament not as a label, but as a matrix on which to build our societies. we want to make visible the stories of the invisible women who shouldered the building of our countries. even if history is bent on erasing us, it is we who hold the foundations of our societies. we come here today knowing which side we're on. here and now we defend the rights of our people, of the people who earn their living by their work and by their effort. we therefore remember and make our own a fraternal and anti-fascist europe. the french resistance led by spanish republicans in the liberation of paris; that of manolis glezos tearing the flag of nazi barbarism from the acropolis of athens; that of april 25 that was freed from the tyrant at the sound of grandôla, vila morena, that of the italian partisans of the bella ciao that put mussolini face down. that is the europe we want. but, more than that, we claim the struggles of the present and recognize ourselves in them. the dignity of the sea watch and open arms activists who rescued people in front of the fortress europe. we recognize ourselves in the mobilizations of young women who defend their right to a future on a living planet. the europe of feminism is changing everything, and we are therefore determined to see this parliament build a europe of peace, a europe of solidarity, which leaves no one behind. to the ones who fight!
i would ask the candidates for the presidency to speak more slowly because interpreters have difficulty in translating. everyone has the right to express their views in this parliament. if you want to be respected, you have to respect others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am running for the presidency of parliament, and i am doing so because i believe that europe will only be stronger with a parliament that can play a more important role. we are facing decisive challenges which will put us to the test in the near future, threatening even the very idea of european union, challenges which we can only face if we remain united, if we succeed, while respecting our diversity, in exercising our legislative function of budgetary control and political direction to the best of our ability. i want to be the representative, with you, of our differences and our capacity to decide, to affirm the centrality of parliament, its autonomy and the value of the democracy it represents. we must all, however we feel, be committed to building the house of european democracy and this parliament must be the house of european democracy. the elections were a success of participation! let 's just say it . we were very busy with the elections and we were not expecting this either, because so many new voters went to the polls for the first time, a great novelty which is also reflected in this house: the new members represent 62% of the total, a very high proportion of new energy. the voters gave us a mandate, telling us that they believe in our institution, that they believe in democracy, in free elections. we cannot let them down and this parliament and this legislature must interpret and guide the change that is possible and necessary to make europe stronger and more modern. we must restore trust, mutual trust between citizens and institutions. and this is where all our ambition and all our courage will be needed to tackle the great challenges of climate change, social justice, governance of migration policies, growth, employment and equal opportunities and rights for all. if you will give me your confidence as president, we will fight together for a modern parliament, more transparent, more environmentally sustainable and more accessible to the citizens. i will do my utmost to ensure that parliament is respected: the commission's proposal is to be respected by the member states and the institutions. you are here, ladies and gentlemen, because you represent the hope - and also the anger - of our citizens, but also the emotions and feelings of the peoples of europe, and i will always be at your disposal: i will listen to you, i will work with you very carefully, because that means listening at all times to the breath and the will of the women, the men and our young people who have extraordinary opportunities in this europe. think about it, they can travel, they can fall in love without constraints. i will be a guarantor of an open, direct and pluralist debate, but always with full respect for the opinions of all of you and, of course, for the prerogatives of parliament, because it is in this house - we are in this house and often do not realise it - that our independence is protected. "nothing is possible without men, nothing is hard without institutions". i believe that jean monnet's appeal is still very relevant today.
mr president, for those fellow meps who don’t know me yet, i’ve been sitting in this parliament since 2004 and i have lived through five presidents of the european parliament already. that gives me a certain experience, i hope, and a certain expertise to understand what this parliament could do and should do, what could be improved, and maybe changed, and what parliament’s president should or shouldn’t do. i believe that this expertise and this experience also tell me what makes a good president of the european parliament. i believe that a good president of the european parliament should be non-partisan, neutral and impartial. he or she should treat all groups and all individuals in this parliament equally, fairly and with respect, and the person should always remember that he or she doesn’t represent just himself or herself but this parliament in its entirety, and i stress ‘in its entirety’. i had a certain advantage in starting my campaign a little bit earlier so i have produced this leaflet with that very nice guy on the front page. it’s already been sent to you via email so i hope that at least some of you have had the chance to read it. i talk there about how to regain trust in this parliament, how to have an open and fair parliament, how to listen and to respond to the concerns of our citizens, how to have a more efficient and less wasteful parliament, and also how to come with some strategic oversight for the future. first and foremost, i speak in that set of principles about restoring balance. i believe that we should – and we must – restore the balance between the european level and the national level which enables us to work together, and also restore or find a new balance amongst our institutions – the european parliament, the european council and the european commission – which will stop institutional infighting and will start a new level of cooperation. mentioning balance, i probably should not forget to mention one other aspect of that balance. since 2004, over the last 15 years, 13 new member countries have joined the european union, 11 of them from the central and eastern european region and, as far as i know, i am the only person from that part of europe applying for any top job in the european union. i think we also need that kind of balance. one third of eu member states are not part of the euro area and i am, as far as i know, the only candidate applying for a top eu job who comes from a non-euro area country and i believe that we also need that kind of balance. last, but not least, there are big states, big nations, great nations, but also small or midsize nations. i believe – if i am not wrong – that apart from belgium, i am the only representative of a small or midsize nation who is applying for a top job in the european union. i believe that we also need that kind of balance. so, ladies and gentlemen, i can only kindly invite you to vote for me and, in return, i can promise you that i will deliver you a good european parliament president. thank you in advance for every vote. (applause)
we have heard the four candidates for the presidency, their ideas, their proposals and the reasons why they are asking for your consent. before we go to the vote, i would like to thank all those who enable us to do our job in the best possible way, all the officials, all the assistants, all the ushers, all the interpreters, because without them we cannot carry out our function as representatives of the people. (applause) i would like to thank i also want to thank in particular the secretary-general, mr klaus welle, whose birthday is today. happy birthday to you. (applause) i would like to thank
let us now turn to our free choice. i repeat: parliament will elect its president independently of any external pressure. it is up to the members to vote and elect their own president. i am convinced that the next president of parliament will be elected freely by all of you, just as i was elected freely. the instructions for the election of the president have been distributed electronically to all members and additional copies are available to you at the entrance to the chamber. i would remind you that, under article 16 (1), in order to be elected, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the first three ballots. i repeat: in order to be elected, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast. blank or blank ballots shall not be counted in the calculation of the votes cast. we shall now proceed to the distribution of ballot papers and envelopes. i would ask you to wait until the voting is open while i explain the procedure for the election. first of all, i would like to know whether all the members of the committee we elected yesterday are present. i'm told you do. to vote, tick the box corresponding to the name of the chosen candidate. i remind you that you can vote for only one candidate. if you wish to correct the vote, ask a new card from a clerk, who will give it to you in exchange for the wrong card, which will be destroyed. the presence on the ballot paper of any writing or sign other than those necessary to express the vote shall cause it to be annulled; the same applies if you vote for more than one candidate. fold the card in four before you put it in the envelope. for those who wish, there are polling stations at the entrance to the hemicycle. for the vote, please use the ballot box corresponding to the first letter of your surname: the first box is for the letters a and bla the second box is for the letters c and dla the third box is for the letters e to gla the fourth box is for the letters h to kla the fifth box is for the letters l and mla the sixth box is for the letters n to r the seventh box is for the letter s and the eighth box is for the letters u to z you can't vote until i call the vote open. i shall not call the members but will simply announce the opening and closing of the vote. the names of members who took part in a secret ballot are published in the minutes, and i would therefore ask you to sign the attendance list before you put your ballot in the box. i would remind you, for the purpose of voting, to put your voting card in the ballot box corresponding to the first letter of your surname. when you vote, i invite you to show the voter your id or your badge. the electors will vote at the close of the ballot. i now call on the electors to go to their respective polls.
i'll let you know the outcome of the vote. number of voters: 735 and blank or blank sheets: 73 the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 662 and absolute majority required for election: 332 and the candidates received the following votes: - i 'm not sure . the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 42 votes against. since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, a second ballot will now be held. if there are no comments or other applications, i still consider the applications from the first ballot to be valid. are there any comments? i have received the following applications: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. in the absence of further nominations, we will hold the second ballot at 11:40. (the sitting was suspended at 11.18 a.m.)
we now proceed to the second ballot, which is why i invite the voters to take their seats next to their respective voting boxes. they'll vote after the ballot. ballot papers and envelopes have been distributed. the vote is open.
i now announce the outcome of the second vote. number of voters: 704 blank sheets or blanks: 37 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 667 and absolute majority required for election: 334 and the candidates received the following votes: - i 'm not sure . i am not sure that this is the case. 43 votes (applause from the european mr. and mrs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr sassoli has an absolute majority of the votes cast. mr sassoli is the new president of the european parliament. i congratulate you on your election, i wish you the best for your term of office and i invite you to take over the presidency of the european parliament.
citizens of the european union, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, honourable members, dear friends, representatives of the institutions, governments, women and men of this administration, you will all understand my emotion at this moment in assuming the presidency of the european parliament and in having been chosen by you to represent the institution which has a more direct link with the citizens than any other, which it has a duty to represent and also to defend, and to always remember that our freedom is the fruit of the justice we will be able to achieve and the solidarity we will be able to develop. let me thank president antonio tajani for the work he has done, for his great commitment, and his dedication to this institution. (prolonged applause) i also want to welcome the confirmed members and the women, who represent 40% of us: that's a good result, but we want more. (applause) i would like to thank at this moment, at the end of an intense electoral campaign, a legislature is beginning that events are burdening with great responsibility, because no one can be content with preserving the existing one: the elections are a good example of this, as is the composition of this house. we are in the midst of a transformation of epochal proportions: youth unemployment, migration, climate change, the digital revolution, new global balances, just to name a few of the big issues that, to be governed, all need new ideas, the courage to combine great wisdom with the utmost audacity. we must recover the spirit of the founding fathers, the spirit of ventotene, of those who knew how to put aside the hostilities of war and put an end to the failures of nationalism, giving us a project capable of combining peace, democracy, rights, development and equality. in these months, too many have bet on the decline of this project, fueling even divisions and conflicts that we thought were a sad memory of our history. the citizens have shown that they still believe in this extraordinary project, the only one capable of providing answers to the global challenges we face. we must have the strength to relaunch our integration process, to change our union so that it is able to respond more strongly to the needs of our citizens and to give real answers to their concerns, to their increasingly widespread sense of loss. the defence and promotion of our founding values of freedom, dignity and solidarity must be pursued every day inside and outside the european union. ladies and gentlemen, we think more often about the world we have to live in and the freedoms we enjoy. let us say it, because others in the east, west and south have difficulty in recognising that so many things make us different, not better but different, and that we europeans are proud of our diversity. let 's say it again: so that it is clear to everyone that in europe no government can kill and this is not a trivial matter: the value of the person and his dignity are our way of measuring our policies; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. that no one can be condemned for his religious, political, philosophical beliefs; that we, girls and boys, can travel, study, love without constraint; that no european may be humiliated or marginalised because of his or her sexual orientation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. our model of social market economy needs to be revived. our economic rules must be able to combine growth, social protection and respect for the environment. we must have the right tools to combat poverty, to give our young people prospects, to stimulate sustainable investment, and to strengthen the process of convergence between our regions and territories. the digital revolution is profoundly changing our lifestyles, the way we produce and consume: we need rules that combine technological progress, business development and the protection of workers and people. climate change is exposing us to enormous risks that are now clear: we need investment in clean technology, to respond to the millions of young people who have taken to the streets and some of them have even come here to this house to remind us that there is no other planet. we must work for ever stronger gender equality and an ever greater role for women at the top of politics, economics and society. ladies and gentlemen, this is our calling card to a world that has no rules but must find rules and we want to help to have rules. but all of this did not happen by chance. the european union is not an accident of history. i am the son of a man who at 20 years old fought against other europeans. i am the son of a mother who, at the age of 20, also left her home and found refuge with other families. i know this is the story of many of your families, too. and i also know that if we were to put our stories together and tell them to each other over a glass of beer, we would never say that we are the children or grandchildren of an accident in history, but we would say that our history is written on pain, on the blood of young british men slaughtered on the beaches of normandy, on the desire for freedom of sofia and hans schöll, on the anxiety for justice of the heroes of the warsaw ghetto, on the springs suppressed with tanks in our eastern countries, on the desire for brotherhood that we find whenever the moral conscience dictates that we must not give up our humanity and obedience cannot be considered a virtue. we are not an accident of history, but the children and grandchildren of those who managed to find the antidote to that nationalist degeneration that has poisoned our history: if we are europeans, it is also because we are all in love with our countries. but nationalism that becomes ideology and idolatry produces viruses, which can produce destructive conflict. ladies and gentlemen, we need a vision and that is why we need policy. we need european parties which are increasingly capable of being the architects of our democracy. but we also need to give them new tools: the ones we have are insufficient. this legislature will have to strengthen the procedures to make the european parliament the protagonist of a complete european democracy. but we're not starting from scratch. we don't just come out of nowhere. europe is founded on its institutions which, although imperfect and in need of reform, have guaranteed us our freedoms and our independence. with our institutions we will also be able to respond to all those who are trying to divide us. so let us say today in this house, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, that the european parliament will be the guarantor of the independence of the citizens of europe and that they alone are empowered to write their own destiny. no one for them, no one in our place. in this house, along with many experienced colleagues, there are also a great many members of the first parliament. i give them a warm welcome. i've read many of their biographies and i'm convinced that they are a very positive presence. 63% of this parliament is made up of first-term members. many of them are involved in social activities, have great skills, great professionalism. many are also involved in protecting people. and this is an area where europe must improve because we have a duty to govern new phenomena. on immigration, for example, there is too much discarding between governments, and every time something happens, we are unprepared and it starts all over again. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european council, this parliament believes that the time has come to discuss the reform of the dublin regulation which this house proposed by a large majority in the last parliament. (applause) i would like to thank by a large majority. (applause) you owe it to the european citizens to ask for more solidarity between the member states. but you also owe it to the poor people, for that sense of humanity that we don't want to lose and that made us great in the eyes of the world. much, gentlemen of the council, is in your hands and with responsibility you cannot continue to postpone decisions, fuelling distrust in our communities, with citizens continuing to ask themselves, at every emergency: "where is europe? what does europe do?" this will be a test to overcome and defeat so much laziness and too much selfishness. and then again. the european parliament, the council and the commission must feel obliged to respond with greater courage to the questions of our young people when they cry out loud that we must wake up, open our eyes and save the planet. i say to them: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. help us to be more courageous, too, to face the challenges of change. i would like to assure the council and the presidencies of the council of our full cooperation and i would like to say the same to the commission and its president: the european institutions need to rethink themselves and not be seen as an obstacle to the building of a more united europe. i would also like to extend, on behalf of the president of the european council, my greetings to the heads of state or government: 28 countries that make the european union great. and these are 28 states, from the largest to the smallest, that hold treasures that are unique in the world. they all come from far away. they have a culture, language, art, landscape and poetry that are inimitable and unmistakable. they are our great heritage, a heritage that deserves respect from all. that is why when i visit them on your behalf i will never be distracted and i will be on the alert for their flags and their anthems, even on behalf of those who do not show the same respect in this house. (applause) i would like to thank let me end by saying hello to the british members of parliament, whatever their views on brexit: for us to imagine paris, madrid, berlin, rome away from london is painful. yes, you should know that, with all due respect for the choices of the british people. for us europeans, this is a political transition which must be carried out with reason, in dialogue and in friendship, but always in accordance with the rules and the respective prerogatives. i would also like to greet the representatives of the states which have applied to join the european union: their path is set by their own free choice. everyone understands how convenient it is to be part of the european union. the accession procedures are continuing and parliament has repeatedly expressed its satisfaction with the results achieved. finally, i wish all the administration and workers of this parliament a very happy birthday. we set ourselves a goal in the last legislature: the european parliament is the home of european democracy. that's why we need reform, transparency, innovation. many achievements have been made, especially on the budget, but this legislature will have to give greater impetus. to do this, we need a greater dialogue between parliamentarians and the administration, which i will be responsible for developing. ladies and gentlemen, europe still has much to say if we and you can say it together, if we can put the reasons for the political struggle at the service of our citizens, if parliament will listen to their wishes, their fears, even their anger, but above all their needs. i am sure that all of you will be able to make your best contribution to a better europe, which can be born with us, with you, if we put our hearts and above all our ambitions into it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not on behalf of the european people's party, the christian democrats, i congratulate you on your election. we offer you the closest cooperation to bring to life what you have presented to us. 201 million people voted in the european elections, we celebrated a great democratic celebration, and this is the mandate we have received as members of parliament, which gives us the basis to do our work for these people on this continent. you have taken on a great responsibility. the european people's party wishes you a happy hand in the next two and a half years. we are on your side in a strong european parliament. congratulations on your election.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats i would like to begin by congratulating president sassoli on his new responsibilities. nothing can give a member of parliament greater pride and honour than to be able to preside over an institution which represents the sovereignty of the people. we are here representing the men and women who want to build a bigger and better europe. it is up to us to respond to what the citizens are expecting of us, which is to restore hope to the european project. we have five years to work together, in cooperation between the various members of the european parliament, to make this project stronger; to make a europe of citizens; a europe of rights and values; a europe of equality and justice. and it's in our hands to get it. it will have the full cooperation of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats. their fate will be the fate of this parliament and the fate of the european project.
on behalf of the renew europe group. mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your election today and express my confidence that, as we started our discussions yesterday, we will work very well together. this year's participation in the european elections shows that european citizens still have strong confidence in this project and that this mandate we have before us must be marked by renewal. the negotiations which i have witnessed in the council these days show - and i think we must look at things very pragmatically - that this renewal will probably not come from either the council or the european commission if the european parliament is not at the centre of this project. we are the representatives of the european citizens and we must take on this renewal and change. that's why in the renew europe group you'll have a partner. we propose to you from the very beginning - and we propose to our pro-european partners - the project of a conference for the future of europe, in which we think about how we can bring europe closer to the citizens, in which we can make sure that it is not backroom negotiations that determine the prominent figures who should lead europe, but citizens can express themselves from this point of view (laughter). you will have our support for such a project... that is what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we are going to do together, because we must make it possible for what we say in this parliament to be put into practice in our relations with the citizens. you will have a partner in renew europe for this project. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, congratulations on your election. we are looking forward to working with you. i think ‘rights of the parliament’ are exactly the right words, this is exactly what we need to discuss, because so far as parliament we have always been working on increasing, advancing, the rights of parliament because that also means increasing the rights of the citizens. right now our position on that is being challenged, as we all know, so we have to make sure that were not giving up on that, that we’re working on further improving and increasing european democracy. that is our task and we cannot give up on that. we also need to continue to work to support the idea that someone for commission president should have been, and should be, a lead candidate. we need to work on transnationalists, but we also need to do our work inside the european parliament because it needs to have us to push for all these democratic rights, and there we also need to do some work when it comes to transparency inside the european parliament. so i’ve mentioned that, but i would also like to ask you something else, mr president. you remember the resolutions that we had in the last legislature about how to prevent and what to do about sexual harassment, which is also a problem inside the european parliament, unfortunately. i ask you and urge you to take those resolutions seriously, because people might be patient but people who are victims certainly should not be. and then there’s one more issue. we are here today as the greens/efa group and we are missing one of our members who is not able to come here because his member state has not put forward his name, even though he has been elected as a member of the european parliament. through no fault of his own he cannot be here today, so i would like to ask you to look into the case and help us to restore the parliamentary rights of mr oriol junqueras.
in the name of the id group. mr president, in this capacity you will have the honour and the duty of leading this house and this institution at a difficult time, at a time when the distance between the european institutions and the citizens is at its highest, because we have not been able to make the european citizens understand the closeness of these institutions. i appreciated the words you used both in your presentation and in your inaugural address and i fully agree with some of the concepts. he spoke of trying to make this house the home of european democracy, he spoke of minority rights, he spoke of respect for different ideas. these are all shared objectives on which the identity and democracy group will cooperate. but these statements contradict what you said a few days ago about the need for a health cordon to prevent certain parties and parliamentary groups from accessing the posts or representation to which, by the democratic principle of representativeness, they are entitled in this parliament. i hope that your speech and your words of support will be followed up by the facts, and this house and you will have the opportunity to do so in a few minutes. if you really want to make this house the home of democracy, if you really want to respect the will of the european citizens who have given the parties of this group millions of votes, if you really want to have a constructive approach, support our candidates for office because minorities also have the right to be represented and to express their ideas in this parliament. i wish them well, and hope that they really follow the facts: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i too would like to join the conservative and reformist group in wishing you a good day's work. we know each other, i know you and i can therefore certainly express a positive assessment of your work, despite the political differences that were also represented in the vote. our position is very clear: we have a different position as a group on many of the issues that have been and are being discussed in this house. we believe it is essential that this house should once again play a leading role in relation to the deadlines and the major issues that are on the table and that the method should be different from those agreements in the chambers which are signed and then sent to a parliamentary chamber. we will work to prevent this from happening and we will work to make sure that this europe really changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will certainly be able to contribute, but our contribution will clearly be to help rebalance these positions and to change profoundly the present attitude and the present structure of this europe. good work, president.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i too would like to congratulate you on your election. in your speech you mentioned some major political projects, some of which we on the left here in the house can share, such as the reform of the dublin system or the strengthening of social rights in the european union, the strengthening of workers' rights. but i think we need a common democratic base for this, and that base - this is a request to you, but also a demand - is that we work together in a transparent way and that the democratic rights of smaller groups and individual members in this house are also protected. this is our request to you for future cooperation. we will then be able to work together on progressive projects and to bring about both a process of democratization and a progressive change of policy in the european union.
i thank all the chairmen of the political groups for their speeches.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
and now we must concentrate on the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. the deadline for the submission of applications for this election is today at 2.45 p.m. and the vote will take place at 3.45 p.m. applications should be sent to the deputy secretary-general in office 101 (the open space office of the presidency in the louise weiss building). (the sitting was suspended at 1.39 p.m.)
i have received the following applications: the candidates have confirmed to me that they accept their nominations. since the number of candidates is greater than the number of seats to be allocated, we must proceed, in accordance with rule 17 (1), to a secret ballot.
mr president, 61% of the meps are new. we should have an opportunity to know who the vice-president candidates are. could we at least have a short statement from them as to why they are standing? i know the candidates from my group but i don’t know all the candidates from the other groups.
your comment allows me to recall that the conference of presidents decided that this was only allowed for candidates for the presidency and not for vice-presidents. that is why it was not possible to put this item on the agenda.
since there are 14 vice-presidents to be elected, each member has a maximum of 14 votes. i remind you that you must vote for at least eight candidates, otherwise your ballot will be considered void. of course you cannot go over the 14 threshold because, even then, the card will be declared null. (the sitting was suspended at 4.27 p.m. because of the closure of the tables)
i hereby announce the results of the ballot for the election of vice-presidents: number of voters: 702 blank or blank sheets: 41 votes cast: 661 absolute majority required: 331the candidates who obtained the following votes: mr. mcguinness: 618 votes to go. chosen one. (applause) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. 556 votes to go. (applause) mr wieland: i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. 516 votes to the left. elected (applause) mr. barley: i have to go to the hospital. 516 votes to the left. chosen one. (applause) mr. karas: i would like to thank you for your work. 477 votes to go. elected (applause) mr kopacz: i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. 461 votes to go. chosen one. (applause) mr. dobrev: i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the report has been presented. 402 votes to go. chosen one. (applause) mr charanzová: i would like to thank you for your work. 395 votes to go. chosen one. (applause) mr beer: i have to say that i am not in favour of this. 363 votes to go. elected (applause) mr járóka: i would like to thank you for your work. i got 349 votes. chosen one. (applause) hautala: i have to go to the hospital. 336 votes to the left. chosen one. these are the candidates who won an absolute majority. the other candidates who received the following votes: i'm not sure. 303 votes to one. the first is that the european union has a very strong position on the issue of the right to vote. 130 votes these colleagues were not elected. i congratulate my colleagues on their election. but there are still three seats to be allocated for the election of the office of president of parliament and a second ballot is therefore necessary. if there are no comments, i still consider the first ballot to be valid. are there any comments? if there are no candidates, the first ballot shall be deemed to have been confirmed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.09 p.m.)
we now proceed to the second ballot for the election of vice presidents.
in the name of the id group. mr president, i wanted to inform you that the identity and democracy group has decided to exclude one of the two candidates, that of my colleague laura huhtasaari, and that we will therefore retain only that of mr bizzotto.
we must therefore reprint the voting papers and to do this we call for the vote to be taken at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 6.41 p.m.)
with the new ballots printed, we now proceed to the second ballot for the election of three vice presidents. we have to replace the elector, mrs. thaler, who unfortunately has informed us that she is busy in a meeting and so i am drawing lots for the appointment of an elector: i have to go. is he here? what's the matter? it's not there. let's draw another pollster. i'm not sure i understand. will you do the job? (mr plumb accepts the role of rapporteur) then i invite the voters to take their seats next to their respective ballot boxes. they'll vote after the ballot. mrs plumb is a voter for the n to r ballot. you can sit next to your station. then let 's repeat the rule: we have to allocate 3 seats. you can vote for a maximum of three candidates, a minimum of two, or your ballot will be considered void.
i hereby announce the results of the second ballot for the election of vice-presidents: number of voters: 679 blank or blank sheets: 16 votes cast: 663 by an absolute majority: 332 and the candidates who obtained an absolute majority and were elected were mr kolaja and mr papadimoulis, (applause) who obtained 426 and 401 votes respectively. the other candidates received the following votes: i'm not sure. the council of ministers has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. 261 votes on the bill. 142 votes i naturally compliment the elected representatives. in accordance with rule 17 (2), the order of precedence of the vice-presidents is determined by the order in which they were elected. in the event of a tie, by age. there is therefore one seat left to be allocated. a third ballot is therefore necessary for the election of vice-presidents. i therefore propose that the house, if there are no objections, proceed with electronic voting. but i have to ask formally: are there any objections to this proposal? there are obviously no objections. can i still consider the nominations for the second ballot valid? if no candidates appear, the second ballot shall be deemed to have been confirmed. but i must also ask you, for the sake of transparency, whether all the members in the chamber have their voting cards. so i have to assume that everyone is capable of voting electronically.
mr president, i think we’ve got the information about the results. is it possible to have a 10-minute break for the technical arrangements? ten minutes?
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the identity and democracy group would like to see a written vote, as in the other votes.
i put the proposal for electronic voting to the vote. does anyone support electronic voting?
mr president, yes, i think it would save everybody a lot of time to use this system. we have the system, we’ve used it before, it works perfectly well. it is, and remains, a secret ballot and it would suit everybody to get this done speedily and efficiently. (applause)
article 191 of our rules of procedure provides that, subject to the application of article 15, the vote on appointments shall be by secret ballot. the bureau has proposed that the election be held by secret ballot on paper and therefore with the ballots deposited at the ballot box: but the rules do not say that, and of course the house is always sovereign. that is why the proposal we have put to the vote, which has received the approval of the majority of the house, is the procedure by which we will deal with this vote and all this in accordance with the terms of reference of our rules of procedure, which, in article 191, establish the procedure for voting by secret ballot. the third ballot will therefore be held electronically. i would ask all members to put their ballots in and to try it out, because it is a good thing to test the system, since this is the first sitting of the european parliament. let's have a rehearsal with five singers: i call the system into action. you will see the names of the five singers appear on the screen and you can use the cursor to make your choice. select the candidate by pressing the blue buttons at the bottom right of the screen, or by using the touch buttons on the right. you turn on the blue light, and an asterisk appears in front of the name. the number of seats to be allocated is reduced by one. and to respect the secrecy of the ballot, the cursor is moved to remove the asterisk display. if you're ready, we can have a rehearsal, with the five singers proposed. i call the vote. did everyone vote? the vote is closed. let's see who's number one on the charts. well, let's say the system works. we shall therefore proceed to the vote as a whole. the three candidates will appear on your screen. you can place the cursor on your screen. the vote is open. did everyone vote? the vote is closed. i have to say that 411 members voted. here are the results: the following votes shall be cast: the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 350 and mr castaldo was elected with 248 votes. mr krasnodębski received 85 votes and mr bizzotto received 17 votes. i'd like to congratulate mr. castaldo.
for the election of the quaestors of the european parliament, i propose that the deadline for the submission of candidatures be set at 10 p.m. tonight. nominations must be sent to the secretary to the deputy secretary-general in the bureau. r00-101 (the open space office of the presidency in the louise weiss building).
the next item is the election of the quaestors of the european parliament. i have received the following applications: the european union is a global player in the field of education and training. the candidates have confirmed to me that they accept their respective nominations. since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats to be allocated, i propose that they be elected by acclamation in accordance with rule 15 (1). are there any secret ballot requests? there are none. the candidates in question are therefore elected to the office of quaestors of the european parliament. of course, i congratulate my colleagues on their election. but as you know, a vote is required to establish the order of precedence, that is, the order in which the votes are allocated to the five quaestors. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the test worked. we shall now vote on the quaestors of parliament to establish the order of precedence. again, the number of seats to be allocated is 5, so you must vote for at least 3 candidates, otherwise the vote will be considered null. the vote is open. did everyone vote? the vote is closed. i report the results to: number of voters: 574 blank or null votes: 71 votes cast: 503the applicants obtained the following results: i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. i'm not going to say that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. congratulations to the chosen ones. i am not going to go into the details of the vote, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the vote was taken in the last minute. the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european union. under rule 18 of the rules of procedure, the order of precedence is determined by the order in which they were elected and, in the event of a tie, by their age. (the sitting was suspended at 9.19 a.m.)
the agenda shall include the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 20 and 21 june 2019 (2019/2686 ((rsp)).
president of the european council. – mr president, members of the european parliament, first of all i want to congratulate the members of this house on their election and to congratulate the new president. i offer you my best wishes and i hope for good cooperation between our institutions. to some, it is parliament that represents genuine european democracy because of its directly elected members, while to others it is rather the european council because of the strong democratic legitimacy of the leaders. in fact, such disputes make little sense, as both institutions are democratic. in the end, we must respect each other and cooperate with each other, because only then can we build trust and change europe for the better. that is why, honourable members, before the european council proposed the new leadership of the union, i met with your representatives many times. i did so not only out of respect for you but also, above all, to make sure that the decisions are truly common. we managed to make these decisions on time, and actually much more quickly than five years ago. i believe they are good choices. for the first time in our history, the european council proposed two women and two men to lead the key eu institutions. i feel happy and proud that we have achieved perfect gender balance in the top positions. this is a very positive change. europe is not only talking about women, it is choosing women. i hope that this choice will inspire many girls and women to fight for their beliefs and passions. i also hope that it will inspire the european parliament in its decisions. during the process of nominations, i was in close contact with the leadership of the greens, especially with ska keller and philippe lamberts. i am fully confident that cooperation with the greens and their presence in the eu decision-making bodies will benefit not only the governing coalition, but also europe as a whole. therefore, i will appeal to all my partners to involve the greens in the nominations, even though there is still no european council leader from this party. i hope that the newly nominated ursula von der leyen will also listen to my appeal and, in fact, i will pass this message to her directly later today. as you know, in many countries green symbolises hope and freedom. i have much faith in this symbol. speaking about different sensitivities in europe, i would also like to mention unity and geographical balance on the continent. as you know, i have personally struggled to maintain european unity in recent years, whether on solidarity with ukraine, assistance to greece, the migration crisis or the brexit talks. sometimes we were more and sometimes less successful, but eventually we always managed to stay together. this is because the leaders truly understand the power of unity. it is clear that only when we are united can we counterbalance the most powerful global players. at our last summit, we were also able to build consensus. it took us three days because i wanted to be sure that every member state, big or small, from every corner of europe, was on board when it came to the future leadership of the union. of course, there is still room for improvement, as regards representatives from the east, in the overall architecture of european positions. in particular, some prime ministers from the socialist family were making commitments as regards geographical balance in this house. the european council also covered a number of other topics but, since you know our conclusions, i will not take up any more of your time. thank you and good luck again. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have the pleasure and the honour to address this house, on behalf of president juncker, in its first plenary session of the new legislature. we have talked about jobs and names over the past few days and the past few nights. it can often take time to find the right balance and the right compromise and it is worth taking the time to get the right people for the right jobs when the future of our union for the next five years is at stake. that is why i am delighted that this house has chosen president sassoli for what might be the most difficult job of all. so, caro presidente, congratulazioni, and congratulations of course to all members of the european parliament on their successful election. i would like to congratulate you not only on my behalf but also on behalf of the president of the european commission and my colleagues in the college, and i would like to underline that we are all looking forward to working very closely with all of you. the same applies to all the candidates nominated by the european council, including the candidate for president of the european commission, ms ursula von der leyen, who has all the credentials to lead our institutions. this house will of course have the final say and we will have the opportunity to debate this in the weeks ahead. but the june european council was not just about people and personalities. it was about our strategic priorities for the next five years and i am pleased to say that there is a lot of common ground between our two institutions. i would like to emphasise just two points. first, the social dimension. now, more than ever, we must ensure equal opportunities for all at a time when europeans are confronted with, and have to go through, multiple transitions – economic, ecological, digital – which all have profound repercussions on our daily lives. my second point, which i believe is equally vital, is the question of climate change. my proudest moment, serving as a commissioner, was when i was honoured to be able to sign, on behalf of the european union, probably the most important agreement in recent history, the paris agreement, in new york. this house knows very well that this was one of the key priorities for the commission and how hard we’ve all been working, together with you, over the last five years to deliver on our pledges and commitments. today we can say that ours is the first big economy in the world to have committed itself under the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared with 1990. you know very well that, with all your hard work, we set the framework, making sure that we would overachieve this target by 2030. we have to say that this is the most ambitious contribution of any major economy and that we have now established the legislative framework to deliver on all of our commitments. for the european union to continue to lead, all member states must now match their deeds to their words when it comes to achieving our commonly agreed 2030 targets. but climate change will not stop in 2030, whether we meet our targets or not. therefore europe must very clearly commit to a path of climate neutrality by 2050, as proposed by the commission last year and supported by the parliament and recognised by a vast majority of the european council. a clean planet for all is in all our interests, not least in our economic interests, including the interests of the very small minority of member states that may still need to be brought fully into our common ambition. this is why we have committed to investing at least 25% of the next long-term budget in climate action. for this reason we have launched a sustainable finance strategy as a part of the capital markets union in order to channel the flows of private capital more effectively into more sustainable investment. however, none of these objectives can be achieved by the european union unless we have the right money to hand at the right time. that is why i insist that we must still reach an agreement on the future multiannual financial framework this autumn and i trust that you, honourable members, will also make it your priority to finalise the negotiations jointly with the finnish council presidency. voters in the european elections called for an effective europe, a europe that can act effectively, and we know that this can happen only if a budget is concluded on time. this requires willingness to compromise on all sides. when i think of europe’s tens of thousands of researchers, 100 000 cohesion projects and one million erasmus students, every single day counts if programmes are to begin promptly on 1 january 2021. in this case, the phrase ‘time is money’ really applies. since we are talking about money, at the european council we could see how our hard work in recent years on deepening the economic and monetary union has paid off. today we have a stable currency with an average inflation rate of 1.8% in the euro area. european banks are now much more secure than before the financial crisis. the equity buffer is now close to 20% of total expenditure, compared with only 10% before the financial crisis and, as a result of the banking union, the share of non-performing loans has also been more than halved since 2014 and is approaching pre-crisis levels. but we must not rest on our laurels. there is still work to be done in order to complete the economic and monetary union. the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness is an important step towards a budget line for the euro. we need to secure its financing and governance. further efforts are also needed on the treaty on the european stability mechanism to make it effective and credible and it needs to be integrated into union law over time. we also need a common deposit guarantee to complete our banking union. we cannot afford to wait until the next crisis before we finally make headway on these crucial issues. there is still much to do and i am therefore happy that, with this plenary session, your work is only just the beginning. honourable members, allow me to finish with a few words on some of the other issues we discussed during the last european council. firstly, i want to reaffirm our full support for cyprus in light of turkey’s continued illegal drilling activities. president juncker was the first to say, back in sibiu, that on this issue he is a cypriot. i was delighted that at the european council every member state spoke in unison and said ‘we are all cypriots’. the commission is now backing up that spirit of solidarity. we are working on concrete actions we can take and i can assure the people of cyprus that we will do what we have to do. europe will stand in full solidarity with cyprus. i cannot mention cyprus without once again offering my sincere condolences to the family of former president dimitris christofias, a man who shared his love for europe and cyprus in the same way as we do. on the western balkans, i want to repeat the commission’s commitment to a firm and credible eu perspective for the region. i believe it is the best way to bring stability to the region. it the best way to overcome bilateral issues and keep up the reform momentum that is serving the people of the region so well. the member states put back a decision on accession negotiations for north macedonia and albania until october. the commission is ready to keep explaining its recommendation to open talks on the basis of our objective assessment of the progress achieved. in the meantime, it is essential that the two countries and the region as a whole keep up the momentum. these reforms and efforts are, first and foremost, for the citizens of the region. they are about building a society based on fairness and respect of the rule of law. the european union will support all efforts to achieve this. finally, let me reiterate our full and unequivocal support for ukraine. we are following the issues in the east of the country very closely and we will continue to make the full implementation of the minsk agreements the number one priority. the commission will repeat this message loud and clear in kiev next week at the next eu-ukraine summit and i will personally do my utmost to make sure that there will be a continuation of the long-term gas transit through ukraine for the next long-term period. lastly, i would like to inform you that the next trilateral talks between ukraine, russia and the commission under my chairmanship will resume in september. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, on behalf of the majority of this parliament, i would like to congratulate president sassoli and wish him the very best of luck. you have counted on our votes; i only ask that you do not forget that now or in two and a half years. i would also like to congratulate and thank president tajani, who has always defended the honour and dignity of this parliament and of all its members. i must also congratulate the new colleagues and the old ones. we have the responsibility to represent the people of europe. we are the only institution elected by the people of europe. the one i will not congratulate is the council. with all due respect, president tusk, you cannot boast about how you have done things, not because of the forms, not because of the vetoes, not because of your lack of respect for the rest of the institutions. i would also like to say to the extremists - i do not know if they are here today - who on tuesday turned their backs on the anthem of europe that we will never turn our backs on the anthem of the united kingdom. that's the difference between having principles and not having them. i am speaking here today on behalf of a political group which is deeply pro-european and has helped to build europe from its foundations; the group of a founding party of the european union; a group which, unlike others, will always be prepared to make concessions and sacrifices in order to reach agreements; a group which is proud of its president and winning candidate in the last european elections, manfred weber. manfred, you have our support! without intending to do so, it is now representing the spirit of european democracy before the council. europe must not only appear democratic, it must be democratic. that is why this house has for years defended the spitzenkandidat process; because we believe that europeans have the right not only to vote on how they are governed, but also on who governs them. and i say to you: we believed in the spitzenkandidat yesterday, we believe in it today and i assure you that we will continue to believe in it in five years' time, because we prefer the ballot box to the closed room. the legitimate interests of the governments represented in the council should not be imposed by the force of the states on the will of the citizens represented in this parliament. at this point, i will tell you that the european people's party will support the candidate proposed by the council, out of responsibility, because it belongs to the political party that won the elections and because the commission will be headed by a person who is capable and prepared to fight the battle in defence of europe's interests. as a political group, we are also proud that ursula von der leyen is to be the first woman to lead the european union and that she is a woman of the centre-right. however, the council and its candidate will have to negotiate a programme with this house. we invite the members of the council to share a reflection. the future of europe must no longer be decided behind closed doors and in secret conspiracies. the spitzenkandidat process is not about a man or a woman. it is about citizens being able to choose who governs them in europe; a truly revolutionary idea: it is called democracy. the council has the right to propose to parliament a candidate for president of the commission. that's right, you did. but the council has no right to ignore all the candidates who have been voted for by the european citizens. you, mr tusk, have created a european union presidency that does not include eastern europe. no one from eastern europe is on your list of names. you, mr tusk, have vetoed - yes, vetoed - the candidate who was voted for by more than 40 million europeans, the same population as your country or mine. it's been banned. you have imposed on the candidate for president of the commission the structure of the commission. not just the structure - including how many vice-presidencies it will have - without having consulted it and before parliament votes on it, which is clearly against the treaties. you have tried to tell parliament who should be appointed speaker of the house, and even for how long the groups should divide the presidency. you have reached the point of deciding who will be president of the european central bank as if it were just another political post. that's called bad democratic education. you have proved the eurosceptics right. governance from the capitals is also nationalism. none of the presidents of the council would dare to do in their own countries what they have done in the council, because the constitutional court would prevent them from doing so. if i may be so bold, you are lucky that article 7 of the treaty does not apply to the council, because otherwise the commission would be in a real difficulty today. you have opened a very serious political conflict between the council and parliament over who decides in europe. and i will tell you one thing: my group in this parliament is one of those who think that in europe the people decide. that's called democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
in the may elections, the european citizens sent us a clear message: they trust in europe, but they want change, and i can assure you that my political group has the commitment and the responsibility to promote it. the best person to lead that change in the commission would undoubtedly be frans timmermans. firstly, because of the spitzenkandidat who can win a majority of votes in this european parliament and because of respect for the democratic norms we have established. and secondly, and just as important, because our candidate has been disqualified for defending the values of the union and the rule of law. we must be clear that we will work more energetically to ensure that these values are respected. but there is an important issue in politics that is also fundamental and that is consistency. and it is not consistent to come here and throw the council decision to the floor and then say that we are going to vote in favour of it. the truth is that very consistent that position is not. but let us be clear about one thing: the fundamental principle underpinning the european union is human dignity. and if we had been consistent with those values long ago, we would have acted in a strong and coordinated way to talk about politics in europe, to talk about how we are able to respect human rights, to see how we are able to make the union's fundamental values be respected. we must go further. i want to talk about politics and i want to talk about how this group is going to lead the change in europe. i am glad that the italian courts have released captain carola rackete. this is what happens when there is indeed a separation of powers, and that is why it is essential to preserve the separation of powers in the face of democracies and liberals. but we must go further and prevent these dramatic situations from arising from a lack of solidarity in the european union. it is indecent to criminalize those who save lives and it is indecent to try to extract political profit from the misfortune of these people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are told that every friday by european teenagers. let's act on the global climate emergency; let's not let them down. that is why we will be very demanding with the agenda of the next commission. climate change requires a transformation that must have two axes: inclusion, for it to be a just transition, and sustainability. we were disappointed to see the lack of unanimity to meet our commitments made in paris. this parliament has always been ahead, and our group will continue to build up majorities to urge the commission and the council to be more ambitious. and in this respect i must congratulate the finnish presidency of the council on its proposals for a sustainable future. we keep talking about politics. we need an ambitious multiannual financial framework to make the necessary change; we cannot do more with less. and this parliament will fight to have the funds required for the policies we are going to adopt. do you remember the europe 2020? we have six months left and we have not been able to meet the targets, to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion. of 20 million we've only got five. because while some are profiting from the crisis, others are still paying the consequences, and we are not satisfied with the big numbers. we are interested in people and we want economic growth to translate into people, men and women in europe, living better lives with more social justice. we have to change economic governance. we want a social and solidarity-based economy, and to achieve this we need to strengthen the european semester, so that it includes the un sustainable development goals and the pillar of social rights. and we also need to reform the monetary union. we cannot wait for another crisis to reform the euro area, to give it fiscal capacity and a deposit guarantee. but we will not be able to achieve these goals unless we work simultaneously on a global agenda. we want a strong europe, we want to promote human rights, labour and environmental standards in multilateral agreements. citizens expect more from us: they expect us to defend social conquests, such as sexual and reproductive rights or the rights of the lgbtqi community; that we continue to move forward so that unjust situations such as the gender pay gap are ended once and for all. and of course, it is in our hands to end the greatest social scourge that europe is experiencing right now, which is gender violence, women who are still being killed for the mere fact of being women. and of course, because we are here to give answers now, we cannot wait any longer. we are here to build a strong europe on the values of equality, solidarity, sustainability and justice, and we will work side by side with those who stand up for these goals. let us not disappoint those who have placed their trust in us. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would also like to congratulate you and all the other colleagues who have been elected to the leadership of parliament in these days. i can only express the hope that together, and with the new renew europe group, we will make the voice of this parliament more heard. for this voice to be heard more, we need first of all a democratisation of the appointment process in the eu's leadership. this is where these proposals have to go, because otherwise we can talk about names, we can talk about gender balance, we can talk about geographical balance, and as long as we don't have a democratic and transparent process for choosing who should lead europe, we can't be satisfied. (applause) yes, we have some proposals this time. the colleagues who spoke before me gave their views on how these people were selected. we have no balance, mr president, we have no geographical balance at all. eastern europe is unfortunately no longer represented as it was when you were appointed to the position you currently hold. so we need a way to take into account everything that the treaty on european union says and these things have to be translated into a democratic process. my dear fellow socialists and people's party members, if we really want a democratic spirit and if we really want these list leaders to be representative, let us think about how we can develop a system of transnational electoral lists or lists through which these candidates can be accessible to all european citizens, not just german citizens, not just french or spanish or dutch citizens and so on. (applause) these "spitzenkandidaten" will be legitimate when every european citizen has access to them and can vote for them. we propose that we do this and that we start here in parliament, because we cannot expect either the commission or the council to do something which is our responsibility. the renew europe group proposes to you and will also propose to the council and parliament to organise a european conference, a conference for the renewal of europe, for the democratisation of the electoral process, a conference of sufficient duration, two years, two and a half years, to make proposals together with the commission, the council, citizens, non-governmental organisations, to come up with proposals on how we can improve the process we have. i fully agree with mr gonzález pons, i fully agree with mr iratxe garcía pérez that we need people who really represent the europeans and from there the council can choose. but let us formalize this process so that we do not have to sit around and argue over ideas and opinions when it is already too late, when the council has to choose and when we have to be able to decide! let us use this mandate so that by the next elections we have such a device that has already been agreed with the parliament, the council and the member states and we no longer waste time throwing insults and show the european citizens that we are capable of making decisions and we are capable of representing them! that's what we're proposing, and i hope we have your support, because we have time between now and the next election to go through this process. secondly, european values and the rule of law, respect for human rights, in our view and for us, are not negotiable and their violation means undermining democracy. that is why it is very important for us that in this legislature we can discuss a set of legislative proposals to protect the rule of law and fundamental rights and an effective mechanism that includes sanctions for all member states, to have this very clear mechanism that primarily plays a preventive role, but to know exactly what each member state that violates the rule of law and does not respect justice expects. the european ombudsman has also been consulted on the appointment of the european prosecutor. i've waited too long for this. this institution must be operational as soon as possible in order to protect the financial interests of the european union from corruption and fraud, but above all to give a very clear signal that the european union knows not only how to punish but also how to prevent and that the european institutions have the tools to do so. third, we need a new vision and policies that align environmental imperatives with economic and social ones. we have a climate change agenda that is very clear. we have to be able to align it with our economic development goals, with our social development goals. the message must be very clear to the future european commission about these objectives which we have in parliament. in this context, the adoption of the new strategic agenda 2019-2024 that the council adopted is an important step, but it is not enough. we believe that we must have such a political agenda set out here in the european parliament. i hope that we can continue and complete the process that we have started with the pro-european political groups in parliament to establish these priorities and put them on the table for the future leadership of the european commission as soon as possible. parliament has a key role to play in setting these priorities and we need to do so now, before the appointment of the next president or the next president of the european commission. otherwise, we risk being too late again. it is our responsibility, as the pro-european political forces in this parliament, to put parliament's strategic priorities on the table of the future european commission. we must do this now, because european citizens are waiting for a renewal of the way european policy is made, and that renewal must come from this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the legal framework for indigenous minority communities varies widely across the eu member states. while some countries have strong laws on driving licences, in others the existing rights are only partial, and in some countries they do not even recognize minorities. human rights are violated by inequality. in my country, romania, the recent amendment to the public administration law also aimed at restricting existing rights. the hungarian language regulations are not applied in many cases, the state prohibits the use of symbols of the hungarian community. i am particularly concerned that there is currently no meaningful dialogue between the romanian majority and the hungarian community in romania. here in parliament we must promote cooperation on minority issues, sharing good practices, the rule of law and respect for minority rights. fifty million minority eu citizens trust the new mandate to create standards for the protection of minorities in the european union. let's get this over with.
madam president! as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development of the polish parliament, i would like to express my deep concern at the conclusion on 28 june of a bilateral free trade agreement between the union and the mercosur countries. the negotiations on this issue had been ongoing since 2000 and there was no reason to rush them and conclude an agreement when the european parliament was no longer working. i know that the governments of france, poland, belgium and ireland have protested on this matter, pointing out that additional imports into the union market, in particular beef, poultry, pigmeat, sugar and ethanol, could destabilise those markets, all the more so in the event of a no-deal brexit. without the strict standards of sanitation, phytosanitary, animal welfare and environmental protection, agricultural production in the mercosur countries will be difficult to compete with that of european farmers. i hope that this agreement will not be implemented provisionally without the consent of the new parliament and the new european commission.
madam president, a few days after the elections to the european parliament, as is fitting, the european commission has issued its country-specific recommendations, which, if not followed up, could lead to sanctions against the member states. there is nothing new, but there are some that are worth noting, for example for portugal. the commission recommends even more budgetary tightening, i.e. less resources for public services, health, education, transport, housing, culture, diverting resources - the fruit of the sweat of portuguese workers - to feed the profits of those who have speculated with our sovereign debt, i.e. more money for the creditors. another recommendation: more job insecurity. that is what they mean by reducing the segmentation of the labour market, i.e. by levelling down working conditions. there has been much discussion in recent days about who will occupy the top posts in the institutions of the european union, but the real issue facing the people is the need for a change in policy. it is unacceptable that we continue to whip people with these kinds of policies. these are the policies that need to change.
the european parliament, madam president, in its last term of office, dealt with the very important issue of immigration. i am from greece and you know my country is facing a major problem. the new greek government guarantees the effective protection of the external borders and has a comprehensive plan for a responsible migration policy. but we have two problems: the first concerns the failure to revise the dublin regulation, which has been left to the council, and the second very serious problem concerns those member states which have closed their doors and refuse to implement our joint decisions, refuse to accept shared responsibilities, and do not help us to have a common european asylum programme so that the credibility of european citizens is not shaken and we do not add water to the mill of populism.
madam president, european farmers need a firm and rapid response to the new common agricultural policy. now that the composition of the new european commission is being negotiated, i publicly ask all political forces not to use the common agricultural policy regulation as a bargaining chip to achieve other political objectives. i would like to draw the attention of all policy-makers to not playing with the fate of european farmers who need stability. this regulation, which was voted on by the agri committee during the previous term, meets major requirements concerning the interests of farmers, large and small. at the same time, it is a guarantee for consumers, who will have access to quality food at reasonable prices, but also a guarantee of a clean environment. i therefore consider that the only viable solution is to send this report to the european parliament's plenary, and then, in accordance with the existing procedures, to follow the path of the trialogue and deliver this document to european farmers. member states should be given sufficient time to adopt the national plans.
madam president, as divided as we are on the eu, our cooperation is vital in the fight against modern day slavery. worldwide, the trafficking of human beings for forced labour, criminality or sexual exploitation affects around 24 million people. the uk tops the eu poll with the highest number of registered victims, and the north east has the biggest regional problem outside london. but, equally, we are a world leader in modern slavery legislation and in action. that’s why it matters that the next northumbria police and crime commissioner has a proven track record working in and for our communities, as kim mcguinness does. working together regionally, and as part of the eu, is the only way to eradicate this criminal exploitation that doesn’t belong in the modern world and should be a thing of our past. we mustn’t let brexit pull us back to that past.
in slovenia, we have had a major problem in recent months with the increase in attacks on animals by bears and wolves. it's sheep, cattle, horses too. over a hundred sheep have already been slaughtered, more than twenty cattle, horses. recently, there was an attack on an elderly lady. this is because of the great increase in the numbers of wild beasts, for in recent years the natural increase has been greater than the slaughter of these beasts. so we have a big problem and the farmers are starting to give up, especially the cattle farmers, and they're announcing that they're going to abandon the cattle. it is therefore essential that this issue be discussed in slovenia, the minister for agriculture has proposed a law on the emergency hunting of wolves and bears, and i also think that it would be necessary for the european parliament to discuss this problem, because it is not just a problem in slovenia, but also in other european countries, and this happens when the balance in nature is disturbed. in slovenia this balance is upset, so i think it would be right to do our duty at home, namely by emergency culling of bears and wolves, and we must also not allow this problem to spread across europe.
colleagues, we had a number of other members who wished to speak but they have not arrived in the chamber. that concludes the item.
the agenda shall include the statement by the candidate for president of the commission. i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate and no blue-card questions will be accepted.
candidate for president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly 40 years ago the first president of the european parliament, simone veil, was elected and presented her vision of a more united and fairer europe. it is thanks to her and all the other european icons that i present to you today my vision of europe. and 40 years later, i can say with great pride: 'finally a woman is running for president of the european commission.' (applause) i would like to thank i am, thanks to all those men and women who have broken through barriers and conventions. i am grateful to all those who have built a europe of peace, a united europe, a europe of values. it is this european conviction that has guided me throughout my life and career, as a mother, as a doctor and as a politician. it is this courage and audacity of pioneers like simone veil that are at the heart of my vision of europe. and it is this spirit that will guide the european commission that i intend to chair. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house! the founding mothers and fathers of europe have built a mighty work out of the rubble and ashes of the world wars: peace. the first is the question of the future of the european union. 500 million europeans live today between riga and limassol, between athens and lisbon in prosperity and freedom. the generation of my children cannot imagine a life without this feeling of home. when this happy generation was born, we thought that it would always go on. today it is also clear to the last that we must fight again, that we must stand up for our europe. the whole world is challenged, with disruptive developments unfolding, which also unfold in europe. the demographic change, the globalisation of the world economy, the rapid digitalisation of the world of work and the natural change in the climate. none of these meta-developments is new, they have been predicted by science for a long time. the new is that we today as citizens of europe equal, in which country we live the effects concretely experience and feel. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the use of the euro is not distorted by the introduction of a new currency. we are experiencing the klimawandel in concrete terms. the following are the most common types of pension: pensioners in ireland who have to go through online banking, or workers in poland who have to continue their education after 20 years in the job, or who have to continue their work at all: we are experiencing digitalisation in concrete terms. ob es regionen in europa sind, in denen schulen, krankenhäuser, betriebe schließen müssen: the following are the regions in which the following schools, hospitals and businesses are closed: we are experiencing a real demographic change. all of this has left people with a feeling of losing control: of looser ties with our communities. none of these challenges will go away. but there have been different ways to react to these trends. some are turning towards authoritarian regimes, some are buying their global influence and creating dependencies by investing in ports and roads. and others are turning towards protectionism. none of these options are for us. we want multilateralism, we want fair trade, we defend the rules-based order because we know it is better for all of us. we have to do it the european way. (applause) but if we are to go down the european path, we must first rediscover our unity. if we are united on the inside, no one will divide us from the outside. if we close the gaps between us, we can turn tomorrow's challenges into tomorrow's opportunities. our most pressing challenge is keeping our planet healthy. this is the greatest responsibility and opportunity of our times. i want europe to become the first climate-neutral continent in the world by 2050. (applause) to make this happen, we must take bold steps together. our current goal of reducing our emissions by 40% by 2030 is not enough. we must go further. we must strive for more. a two-step approach is needed to reduce co2 emissions by 2030 by 50%, if not 55%. the european union will lead international negotiations to increase the level of ambition of other major economies by 2021 because, to achieve real impact, not only do we have to be ambitious at home we have to do that, yes but the world also has to move together. to make this happen, i will put forward a green deal for europe in my first 100 days in office. i will put forward the first ever european climate law, which will set the 2050 target in law. this increase in ambition will need investment on a major scale. public money will not be enough. i will propose a sustainable europe investment plan and turn parts of the european investment bank into a climate bank. this will unlock eur 1 trillion of investment over the next decade. (applause) it means change. all of us and every sector will have to contribute, from aviation to shipping to the way each and every one of us travels and lives. emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour. to complete this work, and to ensure our companies can compete on a level playing field, i will introduce a carbon border tax to avoid carbon leakage. but what is good for our planet must also be good for our people and our regions. of course, i know about the importance of cohesion funds. but we need more. we need a just transition for all. not all of our regions have the same starting point but we all share the same destination. this is why i will propose a just transition fund to support those most affected. this is the european way: we are ambitious; we leave no one behind; and we offer prospects. (applause) i would like to thank you. if we want to succeed with this ambitious plan we need a strong economy because what we want to spend we first have to earn. for that, we need to strengthen the backbone of our economies: the small and medium-sized enterprises. they are innovative, they are entrepreneurial, they are flexible and agile, they create jobs, they provide vocational training to our youth. but they can do all this only if they have access to capital everywhere in this huge single market. let's get rid of all the barriers. let's open the door. let's finally complete the capital markets union. our small and medium-sized enterprises deserve it. (applause) and we need to work within the stability and growth pact. where investment and reforms are needed, we should make sure they can be done. we should make use of all the flexibility allowed in the rules. we are proud of our economy. we want to make it stronger. but there is also a clear and simple logic. it's not people that serve our economy: it's the economy that serves our people. (applause) in our social market economy we must reconcile the market with the social. therefore, i will refocus our european semester to make sure we stay on track with our sustainable development goals. and i will stand for fair taxes whether for brick-and-mortar industries or for digital business. when the tech giants are making huge profits in europe, this is fine because we are an open market and we like competition. but if they are making these profits by benefiting from our education system, our skilled workers, our infrastructure and our social security, if this is so, it is not acceptable that they make profits but barely pay any taxes because they are playing our tax system. if they want to benefit they have to share the burden. (applause) i would like to thank you. honourable members, the european way is also about using all of our potential: our people, our talent, our diversity. it is about creating a fairer and more equal union. this will drive me forward every single day i am in office as it has throughout my career. we have come a long way since i was a minister for family affairs and had to fight to introduce parental pay or access to childcare for families. but the fight for fairness never stops. it is still too difficult for hard-working families to make ends meet in europe. i want to ensure that work pays off. in a social market economy, every person who is working full time should earn a minimum wage that pays for a decent living. (applause) so we will develop a framework, of course respecting the different labour markets, but i think the optimal option is to have collective bargaining by employers' unions and trade unions, because they tailor the minimum wage to the sector or to the region as necessary. of course, i'm aware there are different models, but we have to create the framework. and i want better protection for those who lose their jobs when our economy takes a severe hit. a european unemployment reinsurance scheme will support our economies and our people in times of external shocks. of course, there are national unemployment insurance systems, but the reinsurance scheme for those heavy external shocks is needed in europe. i also want more equality and fairness for our young people. youth unemployment is at 14% in europe, but ranges from 5% to 40% in some countries. we can't accept this. young people have aspirations they want to work, they want to have a future and it is our job to let them achieve this. that is why i will make sure that the youth guarantee, which i started when i was a minister for labour affairs in the council, is working as well as it can in every member state. and i will support the european parliament's idea of tripling the erasmus+ budget as part of the next long-term budget. (applause) we have to care for the most vulnerable: our children. we have to fight poverty. i know, as a mother of seven, that it makes a difference for their entire life if children have access to education, sports, music, healthy food and a loving environment. we need a child guarantee to help ensure that every child in europe at risk of poverty and social exclusion has access to the most basic of rights, like healthcare and education. it will empower them and it pays tremendously if we back them when they're young. this is part of my action plan to bring our pillar of social rights to life. and i will start at home by example: i will ensure full gender equality in my college of commissioners. (applause) if member states do not propose enough female commissioners, i will not hesitate to ask for new names. since 1958 there have been 183 commissioners. only 35 were women. that is less less than 20%. we represent half of our population. we want our fair share. (applause) we also need to talk openly about violence against women. if one in five women have already suffered physical or sexual violence in the european union, and 55% of women have been sexually harassed, this is clearly not a women's issue. i will propose to add violence against women to the list of eu crimes defined in the treaty, and the european union should join the istanbul convention. i am convinced: if we close the gaps between us, we will emerge stronger as a union. (applause) the cradle of our european civilization is greek philosophy and roman law. and our european continent went through its darkest period when we were ruled by dictators and the rule of law was banished. for centuries, europeans fought so hard for their freedom and independence. the rule of law is our best tool to defend these freedoms and to protect the most vulnerable in our union. that is why there can be no compromise when it comes to respecting the rule of law. there never will be. (applause) i will ensure that we use our full and comprehensive toolbox at european level. in addition, i fully support an eu-wide rule of law mechanism. and to be clear: the new instrument is not an alternative to the existing instruments, but an additional one. the commission will always be an independent guardian of the treaties. lady justice is blind she will defend the rule of law wherever it is attacked. honourable members, the rule of law is universal. it applies to all. in the last five years, more than 17,000 people have drowned in the mediterranean, which has become one of the deadliest borders in the world. at sea, there is the duty to save lives... (loud applause)... and in our treaties and conventions there is the legal and moral duty to respect the dignity of every human being. the european union can and must defend these values. the european union needs humane borders. we must save, but saving alone is not enough. we must reduce irregular migration and we must fight smugglers and traffickers: it is organized crime. we must preserve the right to asylum and improve the situation of refugees: for example, through humanitarian corridors in close cooperation with the un high commissioner for refugees. we need both empathy and decisive action. i am aware of how difficult and divisive discussions on these issue are. we need to address the legitimate concerns of many, and to look at how we can overcome our differences. i will propose a new pact on migration and asylum, including the relaunch of the dublin reform. this will allow us to return to a fully functioning schengen area of free movement, the key driver of our prosperity, security and freedoms. a centrepiece in this ambition is a reinforced european border and coast guard agency. we need to reach a standing corps of 10,000 frontex border guards not by 2027, but way earlier, at least by 2024. we have to modernize our asylum system. a common european asylum system must be exactly that common. we can have stable external borders only if we give enough help to member states facing the most pressure because of where they are on the map. we need solidarity. we need to help each other and to contribute. we need a new way of burden sharing. and we must make a fair cooperation offer to countries of origin and transit, in the interest of both sides. diplomacy, economic development, investment, stability and security are needed so that people have a perspective. i would like to tell you a story about perspective. four years ago, i was lucky enough to welcome a 19-year-old refugee from syria into my home and my family. he spoke no german, he was deeply scarred by his experience of civil war and flight. today, four years later, he is fluent in german, he is fluent in english and, of course, he is fluent in arabic. he is a community leader by day, in vocational training, and a student for his high school degree by night. he is an inspiration to us all. and one day, he wants to go home. honourable members, as a defence minister, i have been many times in this war-torn neighbourhood. i will never forget the words of former president of iraq fuad masum, who said: we want to see more europe here. the world is calling for more europe. the world needs more europe. i believe europe should have a stronger and more united voice in the world and it needs to act fast. that is why we must have the courage to take foreign policy decisions by qualified majority, and to stand united behind them. (loud applause from the left) mixed reactions) the cornerstone of our collective defence will always be nato. we will remain transatlantic, and we have to become more european. that is why we created the european defence union. our work for our european union of security and defence is embedded in comprehensive security. stabilization always comes with diplomacy, reconciliation and reconstruction. our servicemen and servicewomen work side by side with police officers, diplomats and development aid workers. these men and women deserve our utmost respect and recognition for their tireless service to europe. (applause) i cannot talk about europe without talking about our friends from the united kingdom. in 2016, for the very first time, a member state decided to leave the european union. (applause from a section of the house) this is a serious decision. we regret it, but we respect it. since then, together with the current government of the united kingdom, the european union has worked hard to organise the orderly departure of the united kingdom. the withdrawal agreement concluded with the government of the united kingdom provides certainty where brexit created uncertainty: in preserving the rights of citizens and in preserving peace and stability on the island of ireland. these two priorities are mine, too. however, i stand ready for a further extension of the withdrawal date, should more time be required for a good reason. (applause from the left) (objections) in any case, the united kingdom will remain our ally, our partner and our friend. (applause) honourable members, when i came to strasbourg 13 days ago, i promised i'd come to listen. i have heard your concerns, your hopes and your expectations. the political guidelines, which i sent to you today, reflect our discussions. from what i've heard, i've drawn my conclusions and i've made my decisions. first, i want european citizens to play a leading and active part in building the future of our union. i want them to have their say at a conference on the future of europe, to start in 2020 and to run for two years. second, i want us to work together to improve the spitzenkandidaten system. we need to make it more visible to a wider electorate and we need to address the issue of transnational lists at the european elections as a complementary tool of european democracy. (applause) and thirdly, yes, i support a right of initiative for the european parliament. (loud applause) when this house, acting by majority of its members, adopts resolutions requesting the commission to submit legislative proposals, i commit to responding with a legislative act in full observance of the proportionality, subsidiarity and better-law-making principles. i am convinced that our stronger partnership will further help to make people's voices heard. mr president, my father was 15 years old when the terrible war brought death, destruction, expulsion and destruction to our continent. er hat seinen kindern, mir und meinen sechs geschwistern, oft davon erzählt. he has his children, me and my six siblings, often told of them. he has told us above all what it meant for him that the other countries had once again reached out to us and taken us back into the circle of democratic nations. the european union has been at the forefront of this and has said at the outset: 'we must do business again and if business is necessary, then friendship is necessary and friends do not shoot each other.' he was chief of staff to von der groeben in the hallstein commission and later director-general for competition affairs. therefore, i was born in brussels yesterday and have been a european, before i later learned that i am a german and a lower saxonian. and that is why i believe there is only one: a united and strengthened europe. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome and has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. (beifall) as mein vater alt und an seinem lebensende war, da had sich his narrative of europe changed. he was a man of great courage. he didn't talk much about the war anymore. he said: "europe is like a long marriage". the love may not be bigger than the first day, but it will be stronger. because we know that we can rely on each other in good times and bad. because we know that we can fight, but we can also get back together. because we have not forgotten why we entered this bund. and we all live in a europe which has grown, which has grown, which has become stronger with its 500 million people. over 200 million people are eligible to vote. this europa has influence. this europe will take responsibility for itself and for the world. this is not always easy, i know, this is painful and difficult, but it is our noblest duty! people want to see that we deliver, that we come. the youth demands it. my children say to me: "spielt nicht auf zeit, macht was draus". and that's why i'm here. dazu, i need your help and support. the european union is not a party to the treaty. the european union is a great example of a great european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the election of our president two weeks ago has now been followed by the election of the president of the european commission. i thank ursula von der leyen for her programme, for her ideas, for her proposals for the future of europe. the epp group is focused on the promises we made during the election. the promises we made to the people are our guiding principles. the epp group's 183 members of parliament were elected by 40 million people. we are committed to these 40 million people, and they expect us to deliver on the promises we have made to them: a fair europe with comparable living conditions for all, a modern europe where we must remain or become the research department of the world, a safe europe that protects borders against illegal migration while helping people in need, a cosmopolitan europe that trades and lives in partnership with africa, and an ecological europe that protects our environment, our climate, while taking into account social and economic consequences. ursula von der leyen is a christian democrat, she is a convinced european, and that is why we will implement our electoral promises together with her. the european people's party will vote for and support ursula von der leyen today. i thank frans timmermans, ska keller, bas eickhout and others for their dedicated campaign at european level. i've enjoyed the competition, being a candidate, showing my face, accepting the competition, fighting for my beliefs objectively, convincing people and then, as a democrat, respecting the election result. 201 million people took part in the european elections - what a celebration of democracy! and their wish is to have a democratic europe. developments of the last days have not always accommodated this strong sign of men. for example, if we say that democratically nominated candidates are not eligible for election because of partisan egotism, this is damaging to democracy. there is damage done, yes, but you cannot heal damage done by creating new damage. europe needs action and stability now. that is why my group supported the social democrat candidate david sassoli as president of the european parliament two weeks ago, and i expect others to support ursula von der leyen as president of the commission today as leader of the epp group. i say this today: we must be able to rely on each other, that is the only way for europe to succeed. (applause from the centre) of course, we must be the symbol of a democratic europe in the next five years: a right of legislative initiative - thank you for your commitment - strengthened investigative rights, better control of the implementation of european law and the legal anchoring of the concept of the top candidate so that the back rooms are finally a thing of the past. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. for us christian democrats, today is a day of departure. we want to get on with it and get things moving, with ursula von der leyen as the new commission president. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, today is an important day for those who make history. the future of the union is in our hands. and my political group, which has been here since the beginning and has europeanism in its dna, wants to continue to build this europe of ours. we have a responsibility towards the citizens who have given us their trust and that is why we want to act responsibly. we want to be sure that in the next five years we will lay the foundations for a sustainable project and future for all europeans. let me remind you, on a day like today, of a great europeanist who spoke in this house exactly 40 years ago: willy brandt. in that plenary, held just after the first direct elections in 1979, he made an appeal that is worth remembering today. it regretted the slow progress of european democracy and the long delay in introducing direct elections. he also lamented that the european institutions still seemed to be far from the citizen. that is why i asked meps to be able to work across ideological and geographical differences to solve people's problems and, above all, to connect with young people. forty years later, this discourse is more alive than ever. we socialists still feel that european democracy is moving too slowly. we have put a lot of enthusiasm into the spitzenkandidat project and we have also fought for transnational lists. but this time we didn't get it. however, we did not give up. european democracy is not going backwards. that is why we welcome your commitment, mrs von der leyen, to resume and perfect the spitzenkandidat process by 2024. we also want europe to solve people's problems, to be able to face the challenges of today. and we need to know that before we give him our support for the presidency of the commission. we need to know whether it will be able to lead the change that citizens are asking us to lead and the transformation that young europeans are asking us to lead. you have sent us a letter that points in the right direction, that proposes progress, but now you have the opportunity to make it even more concrete. you take on the goal of combating the climate emergency and translating that ambition into legislation. that law is necessary, as is setting binding targets to meet our 2030 emissions reduction commitments. but, in addition to the ecological transformation, it is fundamental for us that no one is left behind and that is why we are glad to see that you accept the fund for a just transition. it also stresses the need to put in place an investment plan for a sustainable europe. it is important to be clear that a significant part of that effort must come from public investment. when we ask for the introduction of the sustainable development objectives in the european semester, we do not just want them to be taken into account as a principle. we want to see the introduction of measurement criteria and indicators. we do not want to continue to penalize governments with excessive deficits for investing in an economic transformation that cares for people, creates new opportunities and lays the foundations for a sustainable future. that is why we insist - and you have also said so in your charter - on the flexibility of economic rules and the introduction of unemployment insurance. europe must protect the most vulnerable. that is why our political group will always support the european social pillar and, in particular, the child and youth guarantees. mrs von der leyen, we need to take stronger action against poverty in general. to finance all these policies, everyone must do their part, including the big tech companies. you want them to contribute their taxes to the common effort, but have you thought of a figure? it also mentions that the situation of workers on the new platforms must be protected and improved. here you will have a political group which will support a directive to that effect. i'm glad to see that, on gender equality, we're on the same page. because you know that for my political group, it is a clear priority. adopting a binding equality strategy and including gender-based violence as one of the crimes covered by the eu treaties is certainly a good start. he says he will defend the rule of law and proposes a new mechanism to ensure its enforcement. can you explain what that mechanism would be? i think that many people in this chamber would be reassured to know that you intend to maintain the demands made by the present commission, and in particular by commissioner frans timmermans, on the rule of law. on the management of migration, we welcome your proposal to act with more solidarity between member states and to end the dublin reform. we need to talk about solidarity. we need to talk about humanitarian corridors. it is not just about strengthening security and increasing the number of frontex staff. it is also about saving people's lives, and to do that we need a rescue system that does not criminalize ngos and a humanitarian visa system. only then will we be able to live up to the circumstances. mrs von der leyen, we are here to hear you. we do not want an institutional crisis that will further delay the changes that europe needs. but we need assurances that in the years ahead europe will be able to cope with the necessary measures. my political group will make a decision this afternoon. i have no doubt that he will do so with the best interests of europe in mind, with the men and women who want to regain confidence and hope in the european project. and along the way we will find ourselves in the exciting task of building more and better europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president-designate, the parliament you are sitting before today has never been so important and involved, aware of its responsibility and ready to assume it fully. you know very well, the council that appointed you is a divided council. he finally agreed on a comprehensive package of appointments, to achieve a compromise after long and difficult negotiations. i also regret that the balance between the east and the west of the european union is not reflected in this package and i hope, however, that it will be partially restored with the allocation of important portfolios in the future college. there's no package here today. there is only one nomination of you based on the commitments you have made to us. today, we are looking for a majority that will allow europe to move forward and to respond to the expectations that were very clearly expressed during the elections. the idea of the spitzenkandidat to elect the president of the european commission by the vote of all european citizens was not carried out. this parliament will have to do so by the end of this mandate, and i am glad that you are taking up the idea of a conference for the future of europe to complete this process of democratisation. europeans should know that the negotiations with you in these last days by the pro-european political groups were based on a common political platform of these groups. if you are elected, this platform should provide us with a common and transparent framework for working between parliament and the european commission, with clearly defined objectives for the next 5 years. our group stands ready to support you as you assume your independence and your power of initiative for the renewal of europe. the clearer the commitments you are making today and the stronger the pro-european majority, the more we will be able to build a europe that gives european citizens confidence and hope. before the elections, a great anti-european wave was announced, which would have overwhelmed this parliament and put europe in great difficulty. well, that tsunami didn't happen, and pro-european forces are strong in this new parliament. but we must no longer disappoint the millions of europeans who have said 'yes' to this europe. they expect it to uphold the rule of law without hesitation. we cannot let down the millions of young people who came to vote and who have called for action on climate change, for decent jobs for their generation. we must not disappoint the millions of entrepreneurs, workers and farmers who expect europe to become a real opportunity in an open world, a europe that builds an economy that serves people, able to integrate ecology, climate balance, sustainability, but also new technologies and digital strategy, as opportunities and not constraints. the internal market must be taken out of the logic of numbers and bureaucracy and generate welfare for people. but above all, we expect from you, mrs von der leyen, a genuine european and pro-european leadership. europe is not just an administration, it is first and foremost a political ambition, an ambition of the citizens. if you are confirmed by this parliament, which i hope you will be, you will often hear around you explanations and arguments that will convince you that many changes are not possible and yet you will have to make them possible.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i want to stress two important points for the romanian delegation from the renew group. first, economic and fiscal integration must cover not only the euro area member states but also all european states that want to join the euro area, such as romania. we need support on this. i urge you to make the technical support mechanism for euro area membership, which mr juncker has mentioned on several occasions, operational. secondly, i welcome your intention to start a pan-european mechanism for monitoring the rule of law. it was a condition of the renew group. thank you for accepting it. in this connection, i would remind you that this european parliament adopted the principles of such a mechanism two years ago and we propose that we start the necessary legislation on the basis of this european parliament resolution.
in writing. i warmly support the election of ursula von der leyen as president of the commission. he has a strong political experience and the will and ability to build europe together. many here in the european parliament are disappointed with the process and particularly with the failure of the spitzenkandidat procedure. but that doesn't mean the candidate should be rejected. she's an excellent choice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new rules are applied. above all, the parties must cooperate much better than they have done so far. it is not necessary for anyone in this parliament to take offense at the fact that the european council took the lead in these circumstances. it built a balanced whole that's good for moving forward. the nomination package takes account of political power relations and, for the first time, gender equality. it is high time we had a woman at the head of the commission. if the european parliament had been united from the outset, the european council would certainly have heard its message in its presentations. ursula von der leyen's candidacy has received strong support from the member states and she has now presented her political line paper, which takes very well into account the objectives that are important to many political groups here: an ambitious climate policy, security, sustainable economic growth and gender equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the budget of the romanian presidency of the council (2019/2685 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no 'catch-the-eye' procedure for this debate and no 'blue-card' questions will be accepted. i welcome president dancila, who is with us in the chamber, and her colleagues in the romanian government, and i give the floor to the president.
acting president of the council. mr president of the european parliament, mr vice-president of the european commission, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to stand before the newly elected european parliament today to present to you the balance sheet of romania's presidency of the council of the european union, which also contains benchmarks for the common european path ahead. as a former member of this forum, i am familiar with and appreciate the special role that the european parliament and you play in the european decision-making process. i would like to congratulate you and wish you every success in your mandate. ladies and gentlemen, it was important to show that the european institutions work for citizens and, above all, that they produce results that improve their lives and offer prospects for the future. i am pleased to say that romania has succeeded in doing so. i have taken on and assumed this responsibility as a mission in the service of the citizens and of european unity. we have seen the need to build all our actions around cohesion as a common european value. romania has demonstrated that it can perform successfully against challenges and trends that call into question the union's determination to move forward. we have demonstrated romania's ability to contribute to the european union's added value, reflected in the robust record we present: 90 completed legislative files and around 2 500 events and meetings organised. we also facilitated the adoption of 84 council conclusions on a wide range of issues of common interest. we wanted to have visible, sustainable results, to which citizens could easily and clearly relate, by exercising this mandate. these results give a real identity to our first president, which i think we can all relate to. for example, i would like to believe that when a european citizen will benefit from fairer and more transparent access to the labour market, which will allow him to better balance work and private life, he will know that these decisions were taken during the romanian presidency. we've managed to make a qualitative leap in that direction. from now on, more efficient checks will be possible at the external borders, we will improve the security of identity cards. we have achieved consistent results on all four priority pillars of the presidency: the european union is a global actor, a europe of common values. under the europe of convergence pillar, the romanian presidency has made a strong effort to advance the negotiations on the future 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, both at the political and sectoral levels. we have also managed to complete negotiations on a considerable number of legislative files aimed at strengthening the banking union and the capital markets union and have ensured a long-term vision for the single market. at the same time, the concrete results achieved in areas such as the internal market in all its dimensions - energy, social affairs or climate change - are elements that will remain benchmarks and are already being taken up by our trio partners, finland and croatia. at the same time, the challenges of the digital age, including that of artificial intelligence, have been addressed by the first set of union conclusions on this topic. our presidency has made an important contribution to the finalisation of the digital single market through the copyright directive in the digital single market. in all our endeavours, we have sought to place the interests of the citizen at the heart of our vision. strengthening the union's social dimension was thus a priority, and the establishment of the european labour authority was a successful example. with a view to the energy union, i adopted the proposal to amend the gas directive, which will for the first time provide a uniform and transparent regulatory framework for gas interconnections with third countries. we also sought to facilitate reflection on developing a common long-term vision towards climate neutrality. we have adopted the first regulations on emissions standards for heavy duty vehicles. a europe of security the second pillar was the framework within which we acted to increase security at european union level, given the expectations of our citizens. we have strengthened the mandate of the european border and coast guard agency and, by adopting interoperability legislation, we are sending a clear signal that information systems at european level must complement each other. it is an excellent example of continued cooperation between member states to strengthen internal security and the functionality of the schengen area, an objective in which romania wishes to continue to participate fully. in the area of migration, we have made efforts to advance the negotiations on the reform of the european asylum and migration policy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the return directive and on the progress of the negotiations on the temporary commitments. we have also completed negotiations for the functioning of the european network of migration liaison officers. in order to improve the response to cyber-attacks, a sanctions framework has been adopted to respond to cyber-attacks. this will for the first time impose sanctions on those involved in cyber attacks that threaten the union or its member states. romania will continue to act in this area, with the aim of hosting a european agency specialised in this field. looking at the external dimension of our work, reflected in the europe, a global actor pillar, we have invested consistent efforts to enhance the profile of an active and efficient union, committed to its neighbourhood and credible in meeting its international commitments. progress has been made in relevant areas such as the western balkans region, the eastern partnership, the black sea region. enlargement is a geostrategic investment in the economic, political and security well-being of the european union. in the western balkans, we have managed to preserve the remarkable, even historic, developments of the past year in a complex context and to maintain the strategic opportunities created for the partners in the region, namely albania and north macedonia. the relevance of our objectives is greater in the europe of common values pillar. the phenomenon of disinformation is an undeniable fact of the day and that is why i have sent the european council the report on combating disinformation and ensuring fair european elections. another major objective of our presidency has been to combat anti-semitism, xenophobia, hate speech and all forms of intolerance. we hope that these efforts will be continued by our partners in the trio. we believe that promoting equal opportunities and gender equality is a major objective, which has also been reflected in the architecture of the new european institutions, the european parliament and the european commission. we have committed ourselves to working towards strengthening the european project and, during the six months of our mandate, we have shown that pro-europeanism must be fuelled by constant action. i have been personally and wholeheartedly involved in the smooth running of this presidency, and for a personal reason, driven by a deep attachment to the ideal of the european project. i am part of the generation that has grown up with this aspiration to the fullness of european integration and its recognition for romania. i believe that this sense of recognition of the importance of the european union to citizens needs to be constantly cultivated through concrete results. our project must not promote a europe of multiple speeds or concentric circles. romania will continue to promote the common objective of strengthening the european project and will at the same time pursue the finalisation of its integration. i am, of course, referring to the full integration of our country into the schengen area, of which we are already a de facto member. we will continue to act in a pragmatic manner to promote the principles of the sibiu declaration and remain deeply committed to respecting democratic values and the rule of law. it is important, however, that there are no differences between member states, which create different standards for european citizens. by holding the presidency of the council of the european union, romania has confirmed its full membership, which shows us the legitimacy of our aspirations to conclude the cooperation and verification mechanism. i still firmly believe that our future, for all of us, cannot be imagined otherwise than in a stronger and more cohesive europe, for which we have worked with enthusiasm, confidence and professionalism over the past six months. i am convinced that the efforts of the romanian presidency of the council of the european union represent a solid basis for the further advancement of the european agenda in the period ahead, and i wish the finnish presidency of the council of the european union every success. i thank you again and again for your support during these six months, for your good cooperation and i am convinced that the rotating presidency held by romania during these six months will remain in the memory of both romania and the european union as a successful presidency.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s always a pleasure to be in this chamber and especially today because this morning you have been debating the vision and the expectations for our common europe for the next five years. soon you will be voting on that vision so we can fully embark onto the next legislative period, a period that comes in decisive times because of the challenges as well as the opportunities for all of us. cooperation with parliament, with its strong mandate thanks to the highest participation rate in the eu elections in the last 20 years, will no doubt be crucial because together we share responsibility for europe. because for europe to succeed, we must play as a team, guided by the european art of compromise and in defence of the common european interest. i believe that this was the case not only during the romanian presidency that we are summing up here this afternoon, but also it was the spirit of our work during the last five years. let me thank prime minister dăncilă for the efforts that romania took to advance our europe further. as i said, to achieve results parliament, the council and the commission must work together in the constant pursuit of the general european interest. this is best encapsulated by the fact that to date 354 proposals put forward by this commission have been adopted, 90% of them by unanimity. this was not a given. it required hard work and compromise and i am confident that our new parliament will take an equally constructive approach. in this regard, i would like to congratulate the romanian presidency, president klaus iohannis, prime minister viorica dăncilă, the ministers and the brilliant romanian ambassador to the european union, luminiţa odobescu, for the excellent work and the many achievements. you invested significant efforts in closing as many legislative files as possible before the last plenary session of the previous european parliament in april. it was really a political sprint because you managed to close 90 files in the first 100 days of your term, and that’s a testament to your tenacity and dedication. i am thinking in particular of the strengthening of the european border and coast guard, the copyright directive, or the european gas directive, which was particularly difficult to conclude and therefore my colleague energy and climate commissioner miguel arias cañete also decided to join me today to express also his appreciation for the hard work on this very important piece of legislation. but i also think about the progress we have made on our social agenda, which was a top priority of this commission from the very beginning. thanks to the work of the romanian presidency we have now higher minimum standards for working parents and carers. we have increased the possibility for men to take up caring responsibilities and we are giving more support to women’s participation in the labour market. we have made contracts and working conditions more transparent and predictable for all types of work, particularly atypical forms of work such as on-demand or part-time work, and less than a year after we made a proposal to establish the european labour authority, the romanian presidency made this a reality. regarding the next multiannual financial framework, the romanian presidency also did excellent work on the negotiating box and on advancing discussions on the sectoral proposals. very good progress has been made, including on one of the most critical points, the euro area budgetary instrument. let us take this forward with determination with the next presidencies. we all know how complex the budget negotiation can be, but ultimately it is a matter of political will and we now need to take the decision that will create certainty and stability for the future of our citizens and for our businesses. romania has proven that in this challenging year of institutional change in europe, our union is breathing with both lungs, east and west. we could certainly feel this at the sibiu summit on 9 may. this was an important moment for both the european union and romania. we could see how brightly the european colours could shine. the resulting sibiu declaration of the 27 eu leaders is a strong message of commitment to each other to build a european future together. to conclude, let me add, as the commission has already said in the past, that we believe romania should be a full member of the schengen area and i can only call again for the member states to put romania in its deserved place in our borderless europe. i also would like to say, as the commission has outlined in the past, that efforts regarding the rule of law and fight against corruption are crucial and must be upheld, because people deserve this. and my last sentence would be again aimed at, i would say, my personal experience with your country. i visited it many times before and after the big changes in our part of the world, so i can testify to and be a witness of how big the progress is that your country has made over the last few years and therefore your first presidency should be something the whole nation should be proud of because you did a great job for which i really would like to thank you and i will try to say it in romanian as well, mulțumesc.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, on behalf of the ppe group, allow me to congratulate president iohannis and you, prime minister, and your government, the people of romania and everybody involved for making your country’s first presidency a success. you have assumed responsibility at a challenging time for europe, a period marked by the impending departure of the united kingdom from the european union, the ongoing discussions about the future shape of the eu project and institutional renewal, starting with the european elections. against this background, you have faced high expectations to deliver on legislation, but also to provide guidance on set priorities for the future. during the romanian presidency, the eu made good progress on several important issues such as the digital single market, the gas directive and the banking union. the commissioner has already talked about some of them. together we have also achieved a strong commitment at eu level for the european enlargement perspective for the western balkans. we welcome the decision of the romanian presidency to keep this important topic on the agenda of the european union. after a ten-year break, the sofia summit during the bulgarian presidency provided a much—needed tangible roadmap for the european future of this region. we highly value the efforts of both the austrian and the romanian presidency in sustaining and furthering this impetus. it is time to face reality. a weakening of enlargement momentum could easily cause setbacks for the reform agenda in the region and create openings for other third countries to gain greater influence – a situation which, to put it mildly, won’t be in the interests of the european union. the romanian presidency started with the motto ‘cohesion, a common european value’. indeed, a more cohesive europe is a stronger europe. many important files have been successfully closed. i would like especially to highlight the agreement on the regulation on the european border and coast guard. strengthening our border control capacity has been a longstanding priority for the ppe group. the most important freedom that our citizens enjoy is free travel within the european union. we can only guarantee this freedom if we secure our external borders to monitor who is crossing them at all times. in regard to my country, bulgaria, we set a good example on this securing of the external border. we have ensured a high level of protection of our external border also with the help of eu solidarity, which guarantees the security of the whole of europe. the ppe group is in favour of a stronger european border and coast guard with increased resources and capacities ready to deploy immediately whenever a country faces disproportionate migratory pressure. we support the reinforcement of frontex with 10 000 new border guards to help national border enforcement officers. another key topic was the debate on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the next programming period. the ppe group wants an ambitious europe and we need the means to match our ambitions. we cannot expect the eu to deliver on expectations to european citizens if we do not give them the tools to be effective and adapt to the changing world. although we would have liked the negotiations to be finalised before the european elections, we commend the romanian presidency for the good progress achieved in the first half of this year. it is important that we do not reduce the share of the total eu budget allocated to cohesion policy measures post—2020. the european structural and investment funds contribute to improving our infrastructure and closing socioeconomic gaps between regions, but also fight poverty and here romania – but also all of us – need to do much more by fighting poverty in our union. nevertheless, we would have also appreciated the romanian presidency getting better results on the external neighbourhood discussion and improvement on the schengen enlargement talks. unfortunately, the council is still not willing to grant access for romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. the u-turn at the helm of the council coincided with the negotiations for the appointment of the european public prosecutor. the ppe group strongly supports the efforts to combat fraud affecting the financial interest of the european union. but of course our union is not only financial; it is also based on values. let us not forget that the eu is founded on the shared values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. the rule of law is a fundamental value that we, the members of the ppe group, care about. finally, the role of the presidency is not only to ensure the day-to-day management of the european agenda, but also to set strategic priorities for the future. here an important success was the eu summit organised in sibiu by president iohannis. eu leaders signed the sibiu declaration and agreed upon the main steps towards a more united, stronger and democratic union. we have received a strong mandate from our citizens. more than 50% of citizens voted in the european elections. now it’s time for the finnish presidency to continue the work and work together with us and the president of the european commission, who we hope will be elected this afternoon, to realise the ambitious programme presented by ms von der leyen in the plenary this morning. thank you very much again for all your efforts. i am looking forward to the finnish presidency.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it was not an easy task, not only because of the scale of the challenges, with the uncertainty of brexit, but also because of the short timeframe to work. it was a short presidency, because of the european elections, but it was undoubtedly one of the most fruitful. and that is why i must congratulate the romanian government and i am pleased to be able to welcome to this house today its prime minister, viorica dancila. the good work of your government has facilitated many agreements, and the good work of your government has also done important work in preparing the ground for a potential withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union so that the impact is as smooth as possible for british citizens and for the rest of the citizens of the union. because that has been the focus of your presidency: responding to the needs of the citizens. the presidency has focused on cohesion, which is one of the expressions of solidarity between citizens and also solidarity between territories. we know that many regions of europe are becoming depopulated because young people do not see a future. the priority given to the europe of convergence was therefore a good one. we want the european union to take advantage of new technologies and the ecological transformation to create new opportunities in all the territories of the union. in just four months, the romanian presidency has managed to close 80 legislative files and 10 important institutional agreements. among the most important achievements of this presidency, let me highlight all the preparatory work and the agreements on sectoral proposals for the multiannual financial framework for the next seven years. that community budget, which we must close as soon as the european commission is set up, is essential for the legislature which is now beginning. only with a strong budget can we carry out the policies that the citizens expect from us and from us. the romanian presidency has succeeded in promoting measures to strengthen the social pillar, with greater protection for workers through a directive on fair working conditions and the establishment of the european labour authority, issues which were fundamental to us. and another matter which i will be permitted to mention here as one of the great achievements of the last legislature has been the adoption of a directive to make progress in reconciling personal and professional life, which for the first time includes paid paternity leave. during these months the romanian government has promoted the europe of solidarity, justice, equal opportunities and gender equality, but also the values of diversity, which are so necessary in the face of those who want to take advantage of the fear of the different. i therefore congratulate you on your efforts to combat racism and xenophobia and all forms of intolerance. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mrs prime minister dancila, mr vice-president šefčovič, the first romanian presidency of the council of the european union was one of contrasts. at the technical level, romanian officials and diplomats managed to complete 90 legislative and non-legislative files. so i want to congratulate the professionals behind the scenes, who are rarely given the word "thank you" for their work in these (a word that is not understood). the same cannot be said of the political ladder of this presidency. i regret to say that the current government in bucharest has been far too preoccupied with the justice issues of its leaders to secure the ambitious presidency. this lack of political ambition was compounded by anti-european and populist rhetoric from the ruling parties. fortunately, this rhetoric was drastically sanctioned by romanian citizens in the may 26 vote. romania has proven that it is much more than the politicians who represent it. romania means, first of all, the citizens who stood in line to vote for a european romania. they certainly deserved more from this once-in-14-year-old opportunity. after this presidency, the council remains politically indebted on several sensitive and very important issues on which it has failed to make progress in recent months. i would mention here only three of them. first, the discussions on the multiannual financial framework need to be unblocked. it is not acceptable to repeat the mistake of the previous financial framework when the late adoption led to the postponement of the national partnership contracts and the final beneficiaries were affected. we need to ensure that there are sufficient resources for the agricultural policy and for a cohesion policy that ensures real convergence between the east and the west of the continent. we need more europe in health and education, both in terms of allocating funds and in terms of adopting minimum quality standards at european level. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office is able to fulfil its duties. the blocking of the appointment was a political one, and the unblocking must also be an act of political will. i expect the finnish presidency of the council to come to the negotiating table with parliament as soon as possible in order to reach an agreement. third, we need to make progress on migration and border management. the council, together with the new parliament and the new commission, must open a frank and direct dialogue on the future of the schengen area, a future that leaves no member state behind and no longer calls into question the increasing practice of internal border controls.
in writing. romania's presidency of the eu has had mixed results. although technically he has done the work that the union expects of the country in question at that time, he has not been able to use the presidency to bring about the success of issues that are important to him. such failure to promote the cause of schengen accession. the last six months have been an excellent opportunity for romania to make a positive decision in the council. the european commission was not opposed to accession and the european parliament would have supported it. at present, a double standard applies: despite romania having fulfilled the technical criteria for accession to the schengen area for many years and also having eu border protection responsibilities, eu interior ministers have still not approved the enlargement of the area. this half-year should have been used to convince those countries still in doubt that, in the current situation, romanian citizens cannot continue to enjoy the full rights to free movement within the eu unimpeded by border controls.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova has today the most reformist and pro-european government in the last 30 years. three weeks ago i was on an official european parliament mission to the republic of moldova. i had meetings with the prime minister of the republic of moldova and other politicians. i left encouraged and optimistic from there. the current government of the republic of moldova wants the republic of moldova to be closer to the european union. he wants to restore trust in state institutions, including the judiciary. they want justice, they want fairness, they want the rule of law, they want fraud to be tackled and the €1 billion fraud in the banking system to be investigated, they want a strong and independent media. it's a government that deserves our help. how can we help this government? first, by unlocking the eur 100 million macro-financial assistance as soon as possible. the government of the republic of moldova is willing to fulfil all the conditions. secondly, by making as many visits to the republic of moldova as possible. madam high representative, i ask you to go to the republic of moldova as soon as possible, to tell the citizens of the republic of moldova that we stand with them and to talk to them about the concrete benefits of the republic of moldova's rapprochement with the european union.
mr president, the european path of the republic of moldova is now more open than ever, thanks to the courage of maia sandu, thanks to the courage of the government, but above all of the people, who wanted this change very much. the coalition must now live up to the commitments it has made to the citizens and clean the institutions of oligarchs. there needs to be a strong and independent judiciary in moldova, a judiciary that investigates how the over seventy billion dollars that have been laundered through the republic of moldova have been spent and disappeared, a judiciary that uses the kroll 2 report to find out who and how stole three billion dollars from the banking system. civil society and journalists have been, all this time, the guardians of the rule of law and democracy, and i would like to welcome the government's openness to transforming the state into a trusted partner of civil society. technical, political and, above all, financial support is needed to implement these reforms. i'm asking you to make this effort because moldova deserves to be in the european union.
mr president, your excellency, the republic of moldova has not had the chance to join its sister, romania, to the european union. its citizens, 3.5 million europeans, have been mercilessly sacrificed over the last 30 years and have been pawns in the geopolitical game. because of endemic corruption and the destructive forces within the country and the russian federation that continue to defy us, the republic of moldova has been sold to oligarchs led by vladimir plahotniuc for years. now it finally has a pro-european government. the republic of moldova can bring added value to the union, but it should not be considered a small change. security risks require immediate action. we need solutions and funding to counter the effects of hybrid warfare on our border, the european union's eastern border. the security structures, in particular the ministry of internal affairs in chisinau, must be integrated into the ecosystem. minister andrei nastase, the deputy prime minister, is a guarantor for such a project, along with the entire government in chisinau. at the same time, early education in the values of democracy must be financed. it's an investment in the future. the chisinau government can be our partner. look at it as a great opportunity!
mr president, madam high representative, i think that the positions taken tonight show that we do not know where the essence of the problem of the republic of moldova lies. the problem with the republic of moldova is that it doesn't know what its future is. the european union refuses to give her the prospect of joining the european union sooner or later, when she is ready. the republic of moldova is a country in the grey zone and no politician in the republic of moldova can tell the romanians in the republic of moldova mrs. mogherini, the republic of moldova is inhabited by romanians what is the future of this country located between ukraine, moscow-controlled transnistria and the european union border. conclusion: give the republic of moldova a european perspective, otherwise it will remain as it is for a long time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council presidency is not long, and my speaking time is much shorter, and therefore i will say in brief: the protection of fundamental rights must not be a mere declaration. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. in concrete terms, yes, you must finally break the blockade of the e-privacy regulation after two years. it is unacceptable that users are spied on online and become the plaything of facebook and ad trackers. e-privacy, that is, the protection of privacy, freedom of expression and other important fundamental rights. and please end the blockade of the dublin reform. because that, coupled with regular migration routes and genuine cooperation with the countries of origin, would be a milestone in meeting our responsibility. you're busy. you have a lot to do. so don't waste your time. i wish you every success and look forward to working with you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the best prime minister rinne! in his speech yesterday, the newly elected president of the commission used the expression 'one hundred days'. anyone who has studied political history knows that the phrase "hundred days" originated during franklin delano roosevelt's first term as president of the united states. he gave a speech on march 4, 1933, in the face of enormous challenges, and then he said that he would take action quickly. of your 100 days as prime minister, 40 days have already passed, which means the clock is ticking and we're in a bit of a hurry. so we hope that you have as much time as possible to put all the energy into making the decisions that we need to prevent the climate crisis from getting worse. finally, a few words in finnish. i'm here to help you, not to fight you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'united in diversity' is the motto of the european union, but we seem to have forgotten it, thinking instead that it is the norm that some member states want to impose on others. now more than ever we must look not only at economic growth but also at the cultural, human and sustainable growth of europe. i am from campania and my land, like the rest of the south, has been forgotten by everyone, but for years we have been waiting for the clean-up of areas contaminated with toxic waste throughout europe, for years we have been waiting for our excellences to be safeguarded, for years we have been waiting for protection for our farmers and fishermen. we need investments and programmes which, taking account of the problems and particularities of each territory, create the job and living opportunities, particularly for young people, which can halt depopulation and restart the economy. i hope that in the next five years these will be the main points of action in this house. the austerity policies have been a failure, and european citizens have paid a heavy price for it. now change is no longer a choice, but a necessity.
your excellences, we romanians proved on may 26 that we are determined to defend the values of the rule of law, but we are waiting for a clear proof from the parliament that we have not been lied to. we have made costly investments, we have secured europe's eastern border, we are the sentinel of european civilization and we have been promised a clear accession to the schengen area. but we were deceived. romania has been fulfilling the conditions for accession since 2011 and is firmly demanding its due. the eurosystem does not allow the growth of eurosceptic sentiment in romania. keep that in mind! romanian populists, who mimic the values of the rule of law, are using the rejection of schengen membership to attack the european union. i say one thing here, i say another in bucharest. fortunately, the interventions of the president of romania and the protests of civil society blocked the attack against justice. i call on the finnish presidency, and also on mrs von der leyen, to get involved in solving this problem. do not perpetuate the injustice done to the romanian people. romanians had their third vote at the euro elections, romania deserves to be in schengen. it's in the interest of everyone's safety.
mr. president, mr. prime minister rinne, the citizens of my city, sibiu, have been protesting for 583 days in the streets. the we see you movement is telling governments: "we want justice, we don't want corruption". these people, as well as others like them from all over europe, sent us here. for them, we must defend the rule of law. in sibiu on 9 may, the leaders of this european union made it very clear that we must defend the rule of law and democracy in europe by all means. i therefore expect the finnish presidency to take the budgetary file on the rule of law further and to initiate the european cvm mechanism. at the same time, this process must not happen in a democratic vacuum. do not forget the role of the european parliament here and the role of the court of justice. gentlemen, without the rule of law there is no justice, without justice there is no clean environment, without justice there is no public health, without justice there is no united europe. i also want to thank you for the carbon offsetting that you've committed to do as president.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we say it again: the european union and the member states must choose between protecting life or remaining complicit in death; remaining complicit in turning the mediterranean into a great common grave. breaking with this deadly european immigration policy means stopping the criminalisation of all those people and organisations who save lives. saving lives can never be a crime. breaking with salvini's macabre game of using death to win votes also means urgently - urgently - launching a public maritime rescue of the european union so that there is not a single death in the mediterranean. it means supporting all the civil society initiatives that are fighting to change the migration policy and that are doing it right now with the opening caravan initiative... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows in the mediterranean have decreased, but in fact people are still leaving and dying. in dealing with the phenomenon of migration, we have long been waiting for a strong and coherent european and international response. an answer that has not yet come. unfortunately, selfish national policies prevail, leaving only some member states to manage migration flows, with an emergency solution, case by case, and with a propaganda market that divides people and countries and creates monsters and heroes. the presentation of a plan by minister moavero for a european solution is recent. it is a question of saving lives and identifying places of disembarkation, of establishing automatic and compulsory relocations for migrants, of combating the business of human trafficking in the mediterranean, of providing legal channels for those who are entitled to international protection, of cooperating in the areas of origin of flows affected by conflict, poverty and exploitation of resources, of concluding readmission agreements for returnees. these are issues which cannot be dealt with by the first countries of entry, such as italy, malta, spain or greece, but which must be dealt with by the whole of the european union. the lack of a common position among all the member states on the fair sharing of responsibility in european asylum and immigration policies, besides mortifying the principles contained in the treaties, is losing credibility to the european project and that is why i hope that, with the resumption of this legislature, the work done by this parliament on the reform of the common european asylum system will be resumed.
mr president, here in the european parliament we are accustomed to speaking in a complaining and critical manner to everyone. i will take this opportunity to pay tribute to the commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management who is before us and who has really been the european union's representative in every corner of the world where there has been human suffering, providing humanitarian aid and support. the european union has been given a new dimension and a new dimension, and we are all very proud of it, because the european union has never been absent from humanitarian crises. it was always there, lending a real helping hand, highlighting the humanitarian and social role of the european union. i would even like to ask: the other great powers - why do we usually turn the gun on the european union - what have they done for the mediterranean, what have they done for the humanitarian crisis, how much money have they given or what actions and initiatives have they taken? the european union certainly needs and imposes unity and solidarity, and when we say unity and solidarity we must not leave these issues to each country alone, but we must tackle them together. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, someone mentioned international law just now. it is not against international law to seek asylum or indeed to seek a better life. what is happening in the mediterranean, despite what we have heard from the council about the numbers who are dying reducing, is an assault against human dignity in the mediterranean and a challenge to our european values. i think we can all agree with this, so let’s not discuss exactly how international law applies. what is applying now is a real confusion and an ammunition given to some on the question of the criminalisation of humanitarian assistance. and let’s be clear: the human instinct, the european instinct, the global instinct to aid people who may be dying, as we have just heard, is one that we need to clarify and we need to accept as one of our values. one year ago exactly i drafted a resolution, as the commissioner will know, asking exactly what guidelines we would have to prevent humanitarian assistance from being criminalised. of course, we were told then that there were not many cases. now we see the cases. with regard to sea—watch 3, we see many cases now of criminalisation of humanitarian assistance. so exactly when are these guidelines going to be issued? when are we going to see them? over the last year we have seen the odyssey, not just of sea—watch, but just ordinary individuals, these are not criminals these are just the people we know – doctors, lifeguards, firefighters – all the people who are european citizens trying to save lives. and finally, colleagues, for the council. what i would say to the council is this: of course we need to have the guidelines, of course we need to deal with the humanitarian situation in the mediterranean, so we can look in the eyes people in the coming years and say we did something about this disgrace that is going on in the mediterranean and the fuel that we are giving to some politicians to use this issue. also for the council, how on earth are we going to get the dublin process and solidarity sorted out if we don’t have majority voting and qualified majority voting (qmv) and the things that i have to ask the finnish presidency to make some progress on? we need dublin. we need the common asylum policy. we need ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as another colleague said earlier, we’ve been in this debate for four years. i know that as a union we’ve done a lot under challenging circumstances. the commission has made great efforts and put forward bold solutions, and on this side, this house has played its part in a spirit of institutional loyalty and competence. but all this said, here we are four years later still holding our breath every time there is a boat in the mediterranean waters, and then the game of ad hoc, half-baked measures is starting. will they go to italy? will they go to malta? will they go to spain? and whose responsibility is it? we simply cannot afford politically to continue this way. we simply cannot afford to let our european citizens be haunted by a moral dilemma between protecting lives and good management of migration flows. the two are possible together, the two can go hand in hand. solidarity and responsibility can and must co-exist. we need structured solutions – and i took good note of the promise of the commitment made yesterday by the new commission president to a migration pact. that is good, but until that pact is going to happen, we need the council to support the scale—up of frontex without delay because frontex has to be back in the mediterranean waters as quickly as possible and at full strength. (applause)
mr president, now that we are talking about pollution in the big cities, here in the european parliament, it is a good time to recall the very serious threat it poses to public health. a threat that ends up in the multiplication of diseases, which affects the growth of our children and which means 400 000 premature deaths in europe every year. and that requires drastic responses as well, in the form of changes in our energy, in how we organize our transportation and in the infrastructure that we have in big cities. and that is why we ask all the administrations - european union, local administrations and states involved - to respond. that is why this is the best time to denounce the shame that a big city like madrid, with more than three million inhabitants, has decided to reverse a decision that is intended to combat pollution in the city center by creating a low-emission zone. an immoral decision, because there are fifteen premature deaths a day from pollution in madrid; an irresponsible decision, because all the indicators, all the indicators of the city were saying that it was a newly introduced measure that was working; and a measure that goes against the sense of history, because the administrations, even if the right governs with the extreme right, cannot walk towards the past. and that is why we are asking the european commission and the council to take action and to shame the madrid city council for this decision, which goes against the european union's criteria for combating climate change and for clean cities. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question of the 'blue card'. let's see, here it seems that the debate is about madrid central. we are talking about pollution here. in madrid the left has been in power for four years and the homework has not been done in madrid, because there are no optimal results against pollution. the question i want to ask you, mr lópez, is: one, do you live in madrid, because it gives the impression that you do not live in madrid; two, you speak of our children, do you have children? i'm five, i live in madrid, i don't have the problems you're denouncing. tell me what the problems are with the repeal of madrid central and, above all, tell me if it is not possible to make an alternative to what has been the failure of madrid central.
the answer is 'blue card'. i live in the city of barcelona, but it turns out that i was born in the city of madrid. in fact, a lot of my family lives there and i worry about what happens to the madrilenians, what happens in barcelona... but don't worry: we come here to talk about what's happening in amsterdam, in berlin and in paris, and we worry about everything. and what is happening in the city of madrid and the city of barcelona is that the european commission has already said - it has already said - that the situation is serious and that measures must be taken. and what you can't do is reverse just the steps that you've just taken in the right direction. we all have to think about how we do it. but walking like crabs, backwards, sure, sure, we're not going to solve the pollution problem in big cities. please, man, please!
ladies and gentlemen, the air quality situation in some of the major cities in europe is serious. we have set european standards for harmful particulate matter concentrations, which is an important step. however, the application of these standards remains a challenge. what i found in one case: romania has been referred by the commission to the court of justice for failure to comply with these standards. sanctions, even very high, cannot unlock the substance of the matter. we have an acute shortage of expertise. to improve air quality, for example, large investments in urban transport infrastructure are needed. for years, the projects have been stagnant. my proposal is to engage teams of experts from the commission to provide technical assistance. we need to take local and national authorities by the hand to make progress. so i propose that we change our approach and think of a device to do that. we need to recognize the shortcomings and act differently than we have done for 12 years.
mr president, we have a right to clean air, but let us start with the situation at home, in greece, in the capital of greece, athens. according to the data sent by athens itself to the european union, in the 2018 report, the concentration of nitrogen dioxide reaches 70 micrograms per cubic meter, i.e. far exceeds the alert threshold. according to the european environment agency, athens is also exceeding the limits on ozone, with more than 140 micrograms per cubic meter, while the european limit for ozone is 119 micrograms per cubic meter. so what do we need to do? we must start acting and implementing the european directives, giving a better quality of life to all, avoiding catastrophe. better quality of life means better fuel, not a ban on petrol cars, which actually hits the middle class; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not affected by the current crisis. better quality of life means electro-mobility, electric drive, electric drive with a significant density of chargers over short distances and tax exemptions, so that we move towards the adoption of electro-mobility at a sustainable cost. a better quality of life means applying existing european legislation first and a bold policy to replace old vehicles second.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. over 400 000 deaths a year are due to excessive air pollution. in addition to the human tragedy, congestion and pollution also cause economic costs of 100 billion euros a year. many countries have therefore already established environmental zones to reduce pollution in cities, where most people are exposed to pollution. but if we push through climate legislation that poses existential challenges to large populations with older diesel vehicles, such as craft businesses, the positive dynamics in climate and environmental policy are likely to reverse very quickly. we need a holistic approach to tackling air pollution in european cities, addressing the different causes of air pollution smart cities. the development of a smart and sustainable public transport sector, combined with the development of bicycle paths, should therefore also be a priority of eu funding. in times of digitisation, the question arises whether it is really necessary for workers to commute to work on all days of the week. in addition, up to 200 000 people from france, germany and belgium commute to work in luxembourg every day. home office is often not possible for tax reasons. we need pragmatic european solutions to taxation issues. but coworking outlets at national and city borders can also be a solution - solutions that make people's lives easier and serve the environment at the same time. the member states are particularly in demand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to congratulate the commission because i am a man who comes from local government. i was there for 19 years, 15 of them as mayor. i know what pre-accession funds were, i know what cohesion funds were, and these funds have done good things in our communities, plus they've reduced emissions. but we can also say that with economic growth, traffic pollution has increased, because in my community, the number of cars has tripled. and starting from the fact that we know that by 2050, 75 percent of the population of europe will be living in urban environments, in urban communities, if not in large communities, we know that we will be living there. that's why solutions are needed. we need to have legislative tools for a proper relationship between economic development, which will not stop, and air quality, new tools for what urban planning means, for what we will see in our communities in 2050. and we also need to think about a new phase of air quality infrastructure development. in this same spirit of solutions, we must go further in supporting navigability on rivers and canals, and the danube can be an important highway in europe. and because i come from local government and i know what the relationship between central government and local government is, we need to support financial decentralization for local authorities to be able to implement these solutions that start at our level. one last recommendation: better relations with the committee of the regions since ... (the president withdrew the speaker).
author. – madam president, i note with satisfaction the fact that we in this parliament remain in the lead in a balanced and realistic assessment of russia’s human rights policies vis—à-vis both its own people and other nations and ethnic groups. the situation became particularly grave after the illegal annexation of crimea and aggression in eastern ukraine. we are aware that the ukrainian people monitor our proceedings closely. this debate affects their attitude towards the european union. it is important that the distinguished spectators are also in our gallery. we remain outspoken. the resolution contains in footnotes the verified list of political prisoners. we appeal for their immediate release and we condemn these actions of oppression against the nation.
author. – madam president, the situation of human rights in the russian occupied territories of crimea and eastern ukraine continues to raise our deep concern and outrage. we shed a light on the fate of prisoners that have protested against this occupation, be they ethnic ukrainians, russians or tatars. inside russia, civil society activists in different areas of society continue to be harassed, including environmental activists. we therefore call on the russian authorities to release, without further delay and unconditionally, all illegally and arbitrarily detained ukrainian citizens, both in russia and in the temporarily occupied territories of ukraine, and to provide for their safe return, including crimean tatars and the recently detained red square peaceful demonstrators of 10 july, ukrainian citizens detained under politically motivated charges and the 24 crew members of the ukrainian naval vessel. we urge the russian authorities to stop curtailing peaceful and legitimate activities of environmental organisations by fabricating criminal cases against local environmental activists, arresting participants of local peaceful protests or imposing disproportionately heavy fines on them. (applause)
authorised. madam president, putin does not respect human rights. last sunday, dozens of people were arrested again in moscow during a spontaneous protest against the political monopoly. civil society is systematically repressed and harassed with soviet tools such as the foreign agents act, which registers ngos in a public registry of infamy, and then sanctions them financially and even criminally. abuses, violence, political arrests, torture. you know what? this is what the kremlin does, not only to its own citizens, but also to ukrainian activists, representatives of minorities or the free press. in full defiance of international law, ukrainian citizens have been captured, detained in appalling conditions and subjected to torture. putin's russia cannot be a partner for the european union as long as it brutally violates human rights and international law. yesterday was the 5th anniversary of the mh17 tragedy. 298 people died. little does he take zero responsibility for these lives. respect for human rights must be at the heart of all eu contacts with russia, including economic agreements. we urgently need a european magnistky law to punish all those who violate human rights. if there are no real consequences for russian officials, the kremlin will continue to behave with contempt and total impunity - welcome, ukraine, we are with you!
mr hakkarainen, there is a blue-card request from mr rowland. would you accept the blue card? will you take the question? yes.
thank you sir, it is for 30 seconds, and that does not sound like a question to the previous speaker but you have had your 30 seconds. mr hakkarainen, do you wish to respond to his point rather than his question? it is up to you, sir. he has finished speaking. you have the floor if you wish. please could you stand up?
you are going to stand up and answer the question? i wasn’t clear. you are not going to answer the question? thank you for your clarity. mr rowland, you heard the response.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the state of our forests should become one of the key challenges for the coming decades. in recent years, we have seen with concern the destruction of forests by fires, illegal logging, parasites, and even the printing press's mold. the world's forest cover has declined over the past decade, although fortunately the union is not doing badly. in poland, the forest area has been steadily increasing from 20% of the country in 1946 to 30% today. and we plan to grow further. the polish state forests are a very good example of forest management. i think we should share best practices. every year, 500 million trees are planted in poland. in total, this is almost 60,000 hectares of reforestation. unfortunately, the union often does not encourage member states to plant forests, and this was the case, ladies and gentlemen, with lulucf in the previous term of office, when the role of active forestry in reducing emissions was not appreciated. so it's worth sharing good practices. polish state forests are an example of sound, proper management on a world level.
before i give the floor to the next speaker, just to clarify for new members of the house that the blue card means a 30-second question, and the person to whom you address the question has 30 seconds to answer. i think that is important for information.
the vulnerability of the forest is reflected in the frequency and extent of fires, the prevalence of exotic species, the occurrence of pests and the insufficient income of forest producers. among the causes of this vulnerability are lack of investment and lack of people. these two factors are inseparable from the policies and guidelines of the european union. the common agricultural policy, underfunding, privatisation and the dismantling of public services, including extension and forestry services, the dominance of the timber sector monopolies, have suffocated thousands of small producers, compromised the multifunctionality of the forest, promoted forest disorder and rural neglect, voting for the abandonment of large areas of the territory. where there were people, there is fire now! we have long advocated the need for more investment in forestry, we advocate the need for a community approach to disaster prevention, with adequate resources from the community budget, which is slow to be implemented. and the defence of the forest also requires other agricultural, rural development and trade policies, in addition to the end of the limitations imposed on public investment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this year, as every year, it has experienced major fires in euboea, east attica, zakynthos, loutraki and elsewhere. governments change, but the eu design remains. the planning of the commercialization of land, the corporate action in the forests, the criminal nakedness of the state apparatus with 1.1 billion euros of cuts in the last decade in forest fire fighting and forest protection. the so-called 'resceu' not only does not cover the shortcomings in resources, personnel, infrastructure and funding in each member state, but on the contrary legitimises and perpetuates them. this is based on the commitment of part of the operational capacity of the member state with 'slightly limited' funding for aircraft purchases and repairs, which are considered by the european union as a total cost. the mechanism sends forces, as has already been shown, 'after a holiday' if they are not employed elsewhere and only in 'extremely critical situations'. we demand here and now adequate government funding with permanent staff, with full rights, proper equipment in each country to cover all real needs and no business in the forests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is indeed as you said, commissioner, that the state of europe's forests is in part threatening. the bark beetle is spreading, and probably because of climate change, storms are increasing, including last autumn in my region. however, forests and trees play a very important role in climate protection and biodiversity: trees and forests are like green lungs, and for this and to do this, sustainable forestry is of paramount importance. the role of forests in climate protection can only be realised if the wood is also harvested, that is, if the forest is also used, and if the wood is ultimately also used to produce building materials or to produce energy. the commitment of forestry farmers to sustainability and sustainable forest management is to be commended, and we must do everything we can to encourage forestry farmers to keep the european forest alive, to keep it alive in a sustainable way, so that it can also fulfil its multiple functions in the fight against climate change. i think that can be done under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, and i too am very concerned about the proposed cuts in the second pillar. but above all, i think we should also consider whether we do not need to introduce new instruments in the climate change debate to ensure that europe's forests are sustainable and that they play a role in the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of our forests is increasingly at risk and the european union must once again take the lead in combating this emergency. this has been achieved, and it is worth remembering, thanks in part to the common agricultural policy. we have seen an increase in our forest area of the size of portugal over the last 20 years, a sign of a european strategy that needs to be improved but which has already produced important results. however, commissioner, we cannot stop. the cuts to the common agricultural policy envisaged in the commission proposal mean that rural development programmes will be severely curtailed in some countries: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our farmers and foresters must be the protagonists of the challenge and must take refuge in the problems of our forests. at the same time, action must also be taken towards the major timber exporting countries by establishing an efficient certification programme which allows safeguard clauses to be activated. we are facing a real climate emergency: only a strong and united european union will be able to give our citizens the courageous and immediate answers that await us.
commissioner, romania is home to a large proportion of europe's virgin forests. although forests should be protected for their essential role in conserving biodiversity, mass deforestation in protected areas continues. the birds and habitats directives are constantly being violated. according to a report by agent green, more than 3,600 hectares of old-growth forest have been lost in romania in the last six years. in the natural parks, 1.2 million cubic meters of wood were cut. fires are important, of course, but they don't tell the whole story of the european forest. agent green, clientearth and euronatur submitted a request to the commission for aid to stop deforestation in protected natural areas. commissioner, what we have on paper is not identical to what we have in reality. how, though, will you actually implement these european rules in the interest of the european forest?
mr president, it is good that we are discussing the state of europe's forests. forests cover 40% of the european union's surface and are of great importance to us in many ways, but now especially in terms of combating climate change. forests provide solutions to climate change in two ways. on the one hand, they are important and significant carbon sinks, but on the other hand, they are also a sustainable source of raw materials. in fact, everything that is made of oil today can be made of wood in the future. it is therefore important to support innovation and product development in this field. but now that we are talking specifically about deforestation, it is important to emphasize the role of active, sustainable forest management. forests that are actively managed are not as vulnerable to deforestation, storms and pests as unmanaged forests. and it is undeniable that as climate change progresses, various extreme events and storms will also increase in europe, and therefore we must take good care of our forests. and lastly, commissioner, something we must also improve, at the latest as part of the new forestry strategy, is the european database on forest reserves. when we know the state of our forests, we can also discuss it better at european level. in all countries, statistics are not yet at the level where we have up-to-date information.
i have already received comments from several people on the following spontaneous reporting procedure. you know, there's a rule that we can have five minutes of spontaneous word communication. i can also give you a few minutes. i therefore intend to take eight persons. spontaneous speech
mr. president, distinguished officer, distinguished colleagues! in our fast-paced world, the humility and mindset of the forest people is a treasure. as they care for one of our forests, a key to maintaining our diversity, they are thinking, unlike most of the world, not of a one- or two-year period but of a twenty- or thirty-year period. at present, more than one fifth of hungary's territory is covered by forests. under the afforestation program supported by the hungarian government, an additional 22 million tree seedlings were planted in our forests this spring. our forests not only provide homes, shelter and food for millions of animals and plants, but also actively contribute to the quality of life of the people who live in their environment, to the development of the economy and the countryside, and not least to the balance of the climate. since we are aware that the forest is not only a habitat, not only an economic and environmental factor, but part of the created world entrusted to our care by god, the hungarian government has decided to increase the proportion of domestic forest areas by an additional 6,000 hectares... (the president shall take the floor)
mr president, i wanted to take the floor to emphasize that the protection of forests is still, i think, at a very low level on our continent. i take as an example the system for the protection of virgin and semi-virgin forests. although these forests represent only a tiny fraction of the forest area in europe, they are absolutely remarkable in terms of ecological and conservation value. however, large areas of wild forest continue to be logged in romania and slovakia. to give you an order of magnitude, about 10,000 trees are illegally cut down every year in all romanian forests. i would like to see a european catalogue of primary forests, to recognise their heritage value and ensure a high level of protection. this catalogue could contain the inventory of these forests which meet the criteria established by a scientific committee, as well as their mapping. i am very much in favour of this draft catalogue of primary forests.
madam president, i would like to devote my one minute to the colossal conflict of interest of the czech prime minister and the conclusions reached by the european auditors. as you know, the european commission is dealing with a conflict of interest with the czech prime minister, who, according to their preliminary findings, is also the owner of a large company that also draws european money from the european budget through a number of programmes. as early as last december, commissioner oettinger provisionally stated that the company continues to benefit from these programmes and is also still owned by the czech prime minister. today, the european union's auditors have uncovered this connection to the czech prime minister and have identified a number of problematic areas in this drain of european money. unfortunately, the czech government refuses to publish the preliminary conclusions, and therefore i would ask the commission to publish the final conclusions that will be expressed precisely in the case of the audit carried out on behalf of the czech prime minister against agrofert.
madam president, low-income groups will be disproportionately affected by any price rises in food. not my words, but the words from the government’s own no-deal brexit scenario document. now last week i attended a meeting of the bassetlaw food bank trustees, where we received reports of demand going up month on month again, where we discussed holiday hunger, kids not getting enough food in the school summer holidays. now no one in 2016 voted for higher prices at the supermarket checkouts. this is not scaremongering, this is the reality. now prime minister johnson may or may not have enjoyed his lunch in luxembourg today, but for families across britain, the poorest families, those already struggling to make ends meet, his, prime minister johnson’s, reckless careering towards a no deal will make it harder for those families to put food on their table. let’s be clear. no deal will push more families, more kids, below the bread line and for the sake of those parents going to the food banks, literally to beg for food for their kids, no deal cannot be allowed to happen.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union, this wonderful project, this project which, in my view, is the best thing that has happened on this continent, has been talking for years about the measures needed to protect the environment. yet one of the most important measures to protect europe's flora and fauna - green infrastructure - has been on hold for years. there are solutions, point solutions. there are many ngos that specialize in this area. there are thousands of passionate specialists who can get the job done. from tomorrow. they have experience in implementing many environmental projects and even experience of successful projects carried out in partnership between several countries. we can't wait any longer to see species or habitats disappear. we cannot wait any longer for the creation of national agencies or institutions. it's time to ask the european commission to open up funding lines for these ngos and give the green light to people to get to work. and we must demand from this forum, at european level, that these funds be opened up as soon as possible for the implementation of projects and that they be addressed to all environmental actors equally. i think it's time we demand less talk and more action.
my dear mrs. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the scandalous intention of the german volkswagen group to make new investments in its plant in turkey. this is the same turkey that arrests and jails journalists. this is the same turkey that doesn't use any environmental standards. this is the same turkey that is violating its association agreement and is suggesting and offering illegal state aid for this plant. it is this turkey that threatens and blackmails the european union into letting in illegal migrants. in this turkey, the german concern volkswagen wants to move its second largest plant in europe. this is outrageous, this is dishonest, this is wrong. i'm addressing you, the commissioner and the premier of lower saxony, and i'm asking him to be honest. when they talk about rights, they come to sofia to advocate at all kinds of shameful gatherings, or when rights are violated somewhere, but the concern will make money there. i am also addressing the current commission, president von der leyen and the future commissioner for competition, and i am urging the european commission to take a stand and prevent this deal from taking place - european money being exported to an islamising country and financing the erdogan regime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we talk about democracy and human rights every day in the european parliament. and that's why i chose today to talk about where respect for it is sorely lacking. i am referring to the self-proclaimed transnistrian region. less than 100 kilometers from the eastern border of the european union, the russian federation is waging a war against human rights. there, the romanians, being the majority, are blatantly discriminated against. i can tell you that because i've been there many times. moreover, i am one of the few european politicians who are banned from entering the russian federation. precisely for the uncomfortable views i expressed towards the russian leaders, who chose to trample on the fundamental rights and freedoms of these citizens. now, as a member of the european parliament, the undisputed promoter of democratic values, we have an obligation not to abandon the citizens of this area. i therefore request the european external action service to document and prepare a thorough report on the human rights situation in this region illegally occupied by the russian federation, a region that is part of the republic of moldova. they'll find a lot of interesting things.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about sustainability and biodiversity, europe itself is currently facing the extinction of species that could be saved if we took urgent action. one of the most affected is the danube sturgeon. on the romanian side of the river, this fish, which survived the dinosaurs, is now disappearing. it continues to be fished aggressively by ukrainian fishermen who do not comply with eu rules and is threatened by climate change and dams being built upstream. thus, of the six species that romania had, two have disappeared, and in the case of the other four, at the last count, specimens were recorded in unexpectedly low numbers. for example, in one of the types, nine males were recorded at one count and no females. although there are numerous european conventions, they do not seem to work and the economic and social damage is extremely high. i therefore urge the european parliament and the european commission to consider much stronger measures to save the sturgeon, funding and additional solutions to perpetuate this species before it is too late.
madam president, the fight against climate change also depends on the rule of law and its respect. and i'm going to give you two examples today that show that sometimes even the european union rules, the secondary rules, do not fully comply with article 11 of the treaty. this article provides for a cross-cutting obligation for the union to take account of the impact on the environment in all its policies. the first example is the mobility package, which requires vehicles to return home. this would lead to a dramatic increase in empty runs. according to eurostat, 22% of all vehicles carrying goods in the european union will be empty. this will mean a significant increase in carbon dioxide emissions. the second example, and this is very important, and my colleague, vlad botos, has mentioned it, is that the union does not allow ngos access to justice before the court of justice of the european union, in accordance with article 9 of the aarhus convention. so if we are to fully live up to our desire to stop the effects of climate change, we must start at home, including by respecting international law.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to something we all know, but we don't discuss. it's about the fact that in recent years, the european union has become less and less relevant in global foreign policy and global decisions. i call for a debate to be launched in the european parliament, in the foreign affairs committee - afet, in the european commission, a debate on the ways in which the european union can become a global powerhouse, as it can be, alongside the united states, china and the russian federation. without such an objective, we risk becoming a political and economic area that will receive the effects of globalisation, without participating, on behalf of 500 million europeans, in decisions on the direction globalisation should take. for this reason, i believe we have an obligation to respond to the interests of the 500 million (the president interrupted)... europeans by participating in the decisions that shape the process of globalisation in the future.
madam president, the election of the president of the european central bank is not just a change of person, but also an opportunity to have a new agenda at european level containing at least three key points. first, we need a transparent monetary and banking system that restores trust, that increases the trust of european citizens; a system that has zero tolerance for corruption and money laundering and that offers a new vision of the important things on the new agenda. it's about climate change, it's about digitalization, and of course, it's about social inclusion. secondly, a firm action plan is needed to improve access to finance for smes, given today's fragmentation and the fact that entrepreneurs are discouraged in many european countries today. third, there is a need to improve and strengthen the consolidated support for countries not yet in the euro area to access the euro area by meeting the real and nominal convergence criteria. for countries such as romania, this support for facilitating reforms needs to be strengthened. these are the elements of a new agenda that we want from the leadership of ms. lagarde.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an increase in judicial and journalistic investigations into the existence of foreign influence, particularly from russia, but not only, behind campaigns aimed at polluting the electoral debate and democratic processes in europe. let's think of the case of the front national in 2014, the austrian fpo and, finally, the investigation into russian funding for the electoral campaign of the lega in italy, which matteo salvini has not yet reported to parliament, after having lied repeatedly about his relations with the businessman gianluca savoini and without providing all the information even to the government of which he was part, as reported by the president of the council of the count. we will make it absolutely clear that attempts are being made to destabilize europe. today some european politicians act as national executors of these manoeuvres, they speak as representatives of the people but they are the play-cards of foreign powers, puppets. we will no longer allow these enemies of our sovereignty, marine le pen or matteo salvini, to lie to the citizens and work against the interests of europeans. the measure is full! this parliament must mandate a special committee to investigate attempts to influence democratic processes in europe in order to defend the right of citizens to a free public and electoral debate, because those who are complicit will now have to answer to this house and to all europeans, finally!
mr president, i would first of all like to thank commissioner jourová and commissioner king for their earlier interventions and, in general, i would like to welcome the european commission's efforts to counter external interference in the european elections on 26 may. our democracies depend on the credibility of our electoral processes, and that is why we must prepare ourselves with effective measures to manage the obvious risks we face. i fully support the speech by my colleague mr durand earlier, who called for increased funding for the structures we have created to counter the external forces that are systematically and proactively investing to undermine our political cohesion at national and european level. commissioner king warned us last week in libe that the number of pro-kremlin disinformation activities has doubled this year compared to the same period last year. furthermore, the net number of fake accounts on social networks is steadily increasing, reaching 20 million on facebook alone this year. i welcome the commission's initiative to bring the it giants to the same table. i look forward to the evaluation at the end of this year and to legislative proposals.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not enough to talk. we need to draw conclusions. we should take action. to put pressure on to stop the deforestation of the amazon and the destruction of the largest lung on the planet. and that is precisely why i believe that when the numbers show that under bolsonaro's presidency, deforestation in the amazon has increased by 80% in one year, and when in a few months the amazon has been deforested more than in the last three years, we must do more. and it is a shame for the european parliament that this debate will not end in a resolution on the responsibility of an alliance of right-wing and far-right political groups. i believe that we must take measures and use the mercosur instrument to put pressure on the extreme right-wing bolsonaro.
madam president, the enormous environmental disaster in the amazon rainforest, the global lung, is the result of the incursion of large capitalist agro-industrial enterprises, mining activities, timber groups, and the financial institutions that finance them. the reactionary bolsonaro government is escalating the anti-environmental policy of previous governments, having handed over the area to commercial exploitation for biofuel production, agro-industrial chain products, mining and uncontrolled logging. the deforestation of the amazon is also marked by european union monopolies. the european union and its governments are therefore hypocritically concerned about the contradictions in the free trade agreement between the european union and mercosur. it is significant that, despite the big words on the climate, the european parliament - and with the vote of the european people's party - refused even to adopt a resolution on the amazon. we support the fight to provide all the necessary means, infrastructure and resources to fight the fires in the amazon, to restore the damage and to replant the burnt areas. he's to cease all business in the area immediately!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fires in the amazon are a huge disaster. i would like to illustrate this with just one example: brazil did not commit itself to a substantial reduction in emissions from industry or other sectors in the paris agreement, but brazil's main commitments in the paris agreement are in the area of forestry, forest protection and reforestation. and if that doesn't work at all, then that's a very big problem for the world's climate as well. but there are forest fires elsewhere, and we should talk about them at least as intensely. the fires in siberia and alaska are a huge threat to the climate because they also release large amounts of methane, which is even more harmful to the climate than co2. so, without any primitive discussion, some people are calling for the mercosur to be stopped. in theory, we could stop all trade with these countries, but are we going to go one step further? do we have any leverage? so are we in control of what china and others are doing? i believe that the path of dialogue is to put pressure, of course, and not to wave mercosur's hand uncritically, but to deal with it openly and see how we can really tackle the problem at its root. and we have to take responsibility for ourselves. we have already discussed the forests in the european union yesterday. we must protect our forests, perhaps even in europe, and talk about reforestation, and for both we need a follow-up. it is perhaps good that we do not have a resolution today on both these issues - european forests and international forests - but on both these issues we must act, we must think carefully about what is right and then decide, and we should do this together in the coming weeks.
madam president, what we are speaking about today is the world’s largest rainforest approaching the point of irreversible destruction. the amazon matters to us because it matters to the global climate. it’s a carbon sink that can mitigate global warming. if the amazon rainforest were to die, the large amount of greenhouse gas it would release would speed up the climate change process. of further concern are the hundreds of fires that have been recorded this year in the arctic and subarctic. it is estimated that these fires alone have produced about 100 million tonnes of co2. but this is a vicious circle: if the international community and the european union does not step up its work to cut greenhouse gas emissions, the rate of global warming will not slow down and these fires will continue to spread. provisions to protect the amazon rainforest are part of the agreement reached between the eu and mercosur, and it is in everyone’s interest that such provisions are enforced. in the same spirit, rich signatories of the paris agreement who pledged to pay developing ones to plan and plant carbon—consuming trees have to do so. finally, all of us have a responsibility in helping to change current consumption patterns, which are harmful. it is strong european global collective action that is required.
madam president, the gallery, as you see, is packed with young people and they care more than all of us about climate change. forest fires and natural disasters are no longer an issue for individual countries to tackle in isolation. unfortunately, amazon fires are part of a greater global trend. the number of global fires increased compared to last year and that has happened exponentially. august 2018 saw 16 000 fires, august 2019 saw 79 000 fires – that is an increase of more than 400%. europe cannot be on the sidelines when other countries suffer from disasters and need help. no country in the world is immune to such disasters. no country in the world can handle them on their own. it is essential to have concerted action to stop and recover from these calamities. they accelerate global warming and increase the overall temperature of the planet. we need to strengthen our own civil protection response and boost our ability to deal with natural disasters. we have to be ready to complement national capacities when they are overwhelmed. i’m saying this because just now, the council has cut these funds and we need to re—establish them. it’s not just about forest fires; it’s about people, it’s about their future. it’s about the future of these young people over there.
mr president, we are here today, united from the left to the right, to condemn the dramatic fires happening as we speak in the amazon rainforest. but why not stop crying and act – because today the european union can do something concrete. we have trade tools to apply pressure and we should use them. the eu has just signed the mercosur deal and insists that the deal does not lower environmental standards and that the precautionary principle ensures that the eu and the mercosur countries can continue to protect the environment. well, now we can see how bolsonaro keeps his part of the deal. the eu says it is legally committed to respecting the environment and biodiversity. so, will it suspend this trade deal at least until the fires have stopped and the investigations into the causes of the fire are concluded? if the burning of the largest rainforest in the world is not serious enough, what does it take for the eu to suspend this trade deal and respect the sustainable chapter of it?
on behalf of the epp group. mr. president, madam minister, categorically the situation in kashmir is alarming. i would even say unacceptable. continued human rights violations, street violence, political disputes and, most of all, two nuclear powers in near conflict. these are the parameters in which things are evolving in kashmir, without any hope of a quick solution at this point. i have noted the position of the rotating presidency of the european union and i find it wise and effective. i would like to make a comment about us europeans. in this session we have discussed hong kong, the amazon fires, burkina faso, the situation in colombia, the situation in kashmir, but we do not discuss our problems, sometimes quite difficult to solve, problems that have often displeased the citizens of the european union. i am referring to the security and inviolability of the borders of the european union. i am talking about migration, which we have not yet given an answer to for the 500 million citizens. i mean the terrorist risks. i am referring to the lack of cohesion between the member states when they are talking to china, the united states and the russian federation, which is making the european union's external position vulnerable. i am referring to the abandonment of some newly-member countries which are simply delaying the integration process, even though they are obliged by the accession treaty to join the euro. i'm referring to the leaked and unclarified story of the creation of the european army. i am referring to the need to reconcile the arms industry in the (president interrupted the speaker)... member states of the european union and, not least, i am referring to the lack of boldness that we have... (president withdrew the speaker)
in writing. – i supported and voted in favour of this resolution on brexit. at the heart of my preoccupations and at the heart of all politicians’ responsibilities both in the uk and in europe there should be the rights and lives of citizens that will be affected by brexit: whether a no—deal brexit or a brexit with a deal. politicians should be keep this as priority number one. this resolution recalls that safeguarding the rights and life choices, including the employment status and social entitlements, of eu citizens resident in the uk and british citizens resident in the eu27 remains its first priority and that all endeavours should be undertaken to try to ensure that those citizens are not affected by the uk’s withdrawal from the eu. it encourages the uk and the eu27 to adopt measures that provide legal certainty for eu citizens resident in the uk and british citizens resident in the eu27, and recalls its position that the eu27 should pursue a consistent and generous approach in protecting the rights of british citizens resident in the member states.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the budget allocation for 2020, the last year of the multiannual financial framework which started in 2014. before starting a new financial framework, we need to take stock of european commitments, of the effectiveness of budgetary action, and, as a newly elected parliament, to set out the guidelines we want for the next seven years. i want to use all the financial margins we have to demonstrate that europe has a strategy in areas of interest to european citizens. it is time to understand the concerns of the europeans who elected us and to signal that we can offer a vision for society. europeans are increasingly concerned about protecting the environment and expect new measures from us. our response must provide a strategic direction towards innovative and environmentally friendly technological development. we must commit the european economy to this, but always with a view to maintaining the economy's competitiveness, preparing the energy transition in stages and paying attention to the criteria for allocating funds. we cannot accept a desire for urgent action and at the same time limit programmes mainly to a criterion of excellence. the projects that have met the excellence criterion in romania, for example, can be counted on the fingers. however, there are major environmental emergencies in romania. we have an economic rift in the middle of the continent, coupled with an ecological rift that we need to correct. it is important for the prosperity of all europe. we need to build financial institutions with responsibility, generating continental balance and not risking new imbalances. i would like to take this opportunity to insist that we strengthen the budget lines for technical assistance, lines which have proved their effectiveness and for which i have tabled amendments. we need to recognise that expertise is mostly located in the major european centres, that we have a brain drain from east to west and we need to compensate at european level for the inability to implement projects in the countries of central and eastern europe. i would add, in conclusion, that more and more european citizens want europe to be uncompromising in spending public money. there are high expectations from us, the european public prosecutor's office. i propose, as i said in an amendment, that we provide reasonable financial means for this institution to become operational as early as next year. let's not create a structure without giving it enough power to act.
(the beginning of the intervention was not made at the microphone) ... the molotov-ribbentrop pact is one of the most vicious political acts of the last centuries that had effects on the territory of europe. a lot of people say, "that was 80 years ago". i can tell you that today romania is still living by the will of hitler and stalin. the romanian people were divided into two: one part in romania and the other part in the republic of moldova. i can also tell you that the consequences of the molotov-ribbentrop pact were the spheres of influence, which for the countries of eastern europe meant the establishment of communism. we must remember these things and understand that the european union is the answer today that guarantees democracy for all of europe to the scourge of the molotov-ribbentrop pact.
madam president, with primitive anti-communism and an unprecedented violation of the truth, the european union and the european parliament are trying to exonerate fascism. you are joining those in the visegrad and baltic countries who pay homage to the nazi collaborators and have the audacity to call the communists, the soviet union, who led the peoples' struggle to eradicate the monster of fascism in europe, 'criminals' and 'collaborators of hitler'. history has written that the nazis were the partners of the monopolies supported by the european union and they paved the way for hitler. they were bourgeois governments like the vichy in france, the quislings in greece. the provocative equation of communism with the offspring of capitalism, fascism, will not pass! you are mistaken if you think that with historical miseries and fat funds you will legitimize bans, persecutions against communists and prevent socialism from being the future of the world. pull it back now! the european parliament has a duty to condemn this insult to history, written in the blood of peoples.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, let me start by expressing my thanks for this lively and very interesting debate, which proved to be very timely. as you know, every year the commission marks 23 august as the day when we honour the memory of the millions of victims of all totalitarian regimes. totalitarianism is not about ideology or colour – it is about authoritarian mentality, practice and methodology. totalitarianism is an enemy of democracy, freedom and human dignity. our duty is to keep those memories alive to inspire and guide new generations in defending fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. we firmly stand together against whatever threatens the values of our european democracy. i see here in this house a collective and democratic commitment to defend, uphold and safeguard the european project. this european project was started in the aftermath of the second world war, when wise and determined leaders – although it was very fresh in their memories what they had experienced just some years ago – took the historical decision to lay the foundations and to create a wider space of liberty, peace, democracy and stability. it is exactly what we europeans are enjoying today. however, we should never take this for granted. it is our duty to take this project forward. today we know that certain challenges are putting the european union into question. now is the moment to show leadership towards our citizens. we must never forget both the privilege and the responsibility that we have inherited from our founding fathers and the previous generations. this is why it is paramount not only to remember, but also to ensure that history is not repeated. if we ignore, or fail to understand or read history, we cannot draw lessons from the past. this is the biggest threat to our future that we are facing. this was the consequence in the past, when history was indeed ignored. today’s debate gives me hope, because i know how committed this institution is, together with the european commission. together we must uphold our duties towards our citizens. while some may try to make us believe that our citizens are losing faith or the connection with the european union, we know that the opposite is true. in fact, we have data telling us that, on average, more than 70% of the citizens of europe feel that they are eu citizens, while at the same time being attached to their homelands, to their nations. this figure has been steadily increasing, even since 2012, when it was at the level of 61%. we need to continue working together towards making all citizens of this union feel like european citizens. by working together, i mean involving the whole society from all corners and strata. cooperation is in our european spirit, and synthesis is at the core of our democracy, because being european is not just a nice pleasant motto, it is the essence of tolerance, pluralism and solidarity. it is the recognition of our common values and humanity, as well as our common will and determination to live in a fair, free and peaceful world. it is the embracement of diversity, multilingualism and respect for different cultures, identities and traditions. it is to care for each other, to love our own nation, to respect our neighbours, to share the feelings of belonging in our european family. i hope that these efforts will be sustained with your support for a union that remembers its past, draws lessons from it and does not revert to it – a union that shatters silence, empowers unity and shines as a global beacon and as a unique paradigm of solidarity among citizens, communities and nations.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, we need to learn a lot from our history in these times where our common values are fragile and need to be upheld. together, we must now tackle the rise of extreme ideas and, for instance, the rise of anti—semitism across europe. this is a common challenge to all of us. raising awareness and ensuring appropriate information are key elements for fighting against extremism and disinformation. education can be a powerful tool in this respect, and we need to continuously make efforts to safeguard our free societies. our youth, the generations to come, need to remember and learn from the mistakes made in our common history. the future of europe should be based on common values, mutual understanding of our diverse traditions, and shared awareness of the history of europe, including totalitarianism. let’s keep our garden of rule of law maintained. thank you very much, once again, for your engagement in this highly important topic. thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
i have received four motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 19 september 2019. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the worst crimes against humanity of the 20th century were committed by totalitarian nazi and communist regimes. millions of people lost their lives or suffered during deportations, imprisonments. these sins of the past must be spoken of, taught in history class and reminded so that they can never happen again. most nazi crimes have been exposed, prosecuted, and victims compensated, but little is said about the victims of communism. for example, the transcarpathian hungarian community, whose male population between 18 and 50 years old was deported to forced labor camps in 1944 by the occupying soviet power, the so-called "malenkiy robot", citing the principle of collective guilt, from which only very few returned alive. in soviet times, this was a taboo subject! and yet, as far as we know, 27,000 to 30,000 people have been killed, and they have not been rehabilitated, compensated or even apologized for their actions. i therefore welcome the text of the resolution and hope that the rehabilitation of these victims will also be part of european integration and reconciliation.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the state of play of the implementation of anti-money laundering legislation (2019/2820(rsp)). now, i need you to listen to me very carefully. before we open the debate, i can inform you that this part-session will test a new system which will enable members to register electronically the speeches they have been given on request and the requests for the blue card questions. you have been emailed information on how this system works and you have been given instructions on how to use it on your desks. members may thus request the floor by using the buttons on their voting machines in accordance with the instructions given. in addition to the voting machine, the traditional way of requesting a member's right to speak is also available. the request for a request to speak can be made by raising the white paper or by presenting oneself to the colleagues in the plenary group here at the beginning of the debate, and the question of the blue card can be asked further by raising the blue card. this electronic system will be tested during several debates and i would remind you to carry your voting card with you, as it is a prerequisite for us to be able to test this system. i hope you'll use it, too.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner, honourable members, thank you for inviting the presidency to contribute to this debate. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a key topic during the finnish presidency and is an area to which the council is strongly committed. over the last years, we have – the parliament, the council and the commission – worked closely with the aim of establishing an effective regime to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism. we particularly strengthened the eu rules in 2019 with the adoption of the latest amendments to the anti—money laundering directive. the member states are due to transpose it into national law by january 2020. once in effect, the fifth anti—money laundering directive will improve the powers of financial intelligence units, increase the transparency around beneficial ownership information, and regulate virtual currencies and prepaid cards to better prevent terrorism financing. as you know, on the previous fourth anti—money laundering directive, the member states transposition is facing some delays. on this, the commission will be better placed to update you, but i understand that some of the infringement procedures have already been closed. through the review of the european system of financial supervision, on which we agreed just before the parliamentary recess, we progressed further and reinforced the role of the european banking authority as regards risks posed to the financial sector by money laundering. lawyer linguists are now finalising the legal texts in order for it to enter into force in january. they have also included strengthened rules on anti—money laundering in the banking package, namely with the revision of the capital requirements directive. with the fifth anti—money laundering directive, we streamlined the cooperation between prudential supervisors and anti—money laundering authorities. the prudential supervisors should now have better abilities to intervene in cases where activities endanger financial stability. these rules already entered into force, and member states are currently transposing them into national law. this is due to be completed by december 2020. on anti—money laundering, we also have the eu list of high—risk third countries, with strategic deficiencies. as you know, in march the council objected to the commission’s related delegated act. this decision does not mean that the listing is not an important element of the ongoing work – on the contrary – but in order to achieve the full impact of this instrument and to ensure its quality, we need to introduce the list in an orderly process. we believe that in order to establish a strong and effective instrument, the commission proposal needs to be established in a transparent manner and needs to incentivise affected countries to take action. i know the commission has been working intensively on the new methodology, which it will present to ministers in october. the criminal law framework in the area of money laundering has also recently been strengthened through the adoption of a directive on combating money laundering by criminal law. this directive is currently being implemented in member states, and the transposition deadline is december 2020. honourable members, the council is advancing on other fronts as well. it agreed, in december 2018, on a dedicated anti—money laundering action plan to further improve the current system, and the council is regularly monitoring the delivery of the various actions. we have also asked the commission to deliver a post—mortem review of recent alleged money laundering cases involving eu banks, with a view to better informing possible additional actions in the medium to long term. the commission published its report in july and will present it to the council in october. on the basis of this important input and other recent reports we are inviting the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) to adopt the council conclusions by december on an anti—money laundering strategic agenda that will guide the commission going forward. ladies and gentlemen, much is being done to tackle this important problem and, overall, our joint work in the area of anti—money laundering stands as a very good example of good cooperation. it is our priority as the presidency to fight tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. i look forward to hearing your views on the matter. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, money laundering hit the headlines in recent years and is at the centre of several key challenges europe is facing today. the commission is fully committed to safeguarding the eu financial system and its citizens from the harmful effects of the laundering of proceeds from criminal activities. protecting citizens from terrorism also requires a robust system to counter the financing of terrorism. it is vital that our anti-money laundering policy retains the trust of citizens and also the trust of our international partners. in the past five years, together with the european parliament, we worked hard to strengthen eu rules in this area. the revision of the anti-money laundering rules, the directive on criminal sanctions for money laundering, the directive on cooperation between financial intelligence units and law-enforcement authorities, as well as the strengthening of the role of the european banking authority, are all very important steps. but what matters now is the effective implementation of these rules, and parliament is right to highlight this subject at the beginning of this term. i would insist on the importance of member states’ implementing both the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives. the latter will become applicable as of january 2020. and the commission has watched member states closely on effective implementation of the rules. infringement proceedings have been opened against member states for incomplete transposition of the fourth directive and some of them are still ongoing. we are closely checking both the conformity of the legislation and the way these rules are implemented in practice. while many shortcomings could be remedied through the implementation of the anti-money laundering directive, it seems that some structural issues will remain. we addressed some of them in the report that the commission adopted on 24 july on the state of implementation of the eu’s anti-money laundering framework. i believe these reports are a good basis for assessing what needs to be done in the future. the way in which anti-money laundering rules are applied in practice by all economic operators is of critical importance to the good functioning of the whole system. for instance, national banking supervisors must act decisively. weak supervision was an issue in some of the large-scale money-laundering scandals we saw. here a harmonised, directly applicable union regulatory anti-money laundering framework could help. in addition, we could consider conferring specific anti-money laundering supervisory tasks on a union body. we also found cases where supervisors were critically understaffed, failing to carry out on-site inspections as frequently as they should have done, or not taking appropriate measures when they found violations. group supervision was also largely deficient. prudential supervisors did not sufficiently take into account money-laundering concerns in their supervision of banks or in their suitability assessment of managers. we are aware that such programme problems are not limited to the banking sector only. they exist also in other parts of the financial sector, as well as the non-financial sector. this is another area that should not be overlooked. with regard to the report on financial intelligence units, the assessment confirmed that cooperation between financial intelligence units needs to be improved further, including through a stronger mechanism at eu level, to coordinate and support national financial intelligence units. it will be for the next commission to decide on the next steps, but the policy guidelines of the president-designate are clear on this matter. we have to strengthen supervision and close loopholes. finally, allow me to update you on the list of high-risk third countries. the commission remains committed to delivering an updated list, in line with the requirement of the directive. following the rejection of the delegated regulation by the council, and the parliament resolution in march, we have made strong efforts to take into account the views expressed by both parliament and the council. our aim is to ensure consensus between all institutions on the process in order to avoid either parliament or the council rejecting the list. i would like to reiterate that the commission will continue to carry out an autonomous assessment. we will, in principle, list countries which are listed by the financial action task force (fatf). at the same time, the listing criteria of the directive also go beyond the fatf criteria, in particular on transparency of beneficial ownership. this means that we will also list third countries with strategic deficiencies, even if they are not on the fatf list. within this framework, we are working to refine the methodology of june 2018. firstly, we aim at clarifying the interaction between the eu list and the one at international level by the fatf. secondly, we proposed to detail further the engagement with third countries prior to a listing. here we proposed to engage with third countries on the basis of our preliminary assessments and to seek commitments from third countries to implement mitigating measures within one year. this will help ensure that deficiencies are effectively addressed. we will also consider listing immediately those countries which present an overriding level of risks. we hope that this new approach will allow both co-legislators to reach a common understanding with a view to adopting the eu list on high-risk third countries. the commission will maintain a regular political dialogue with parliament and the council in implementing the methodology. i intend to address the matter with finance ministers at the october ecofin council. i would like to assure you that we will continue sharing the same goal of protecting the eu financial system from risks of money laundering posed by third countries. i also want to thank the european parliament for its continued support for this challenging but necessary process in the interest of our citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. listening to you like this, you really think it's all wonderful. everything is under control; the council is committed and is fighting day by day, hour by hour against money laundering, the commission is checking all the countries - everything is wonderful. the truth is, nothing is wonderful. if we look closely at the commission's audit report, two things have become clear. firstly, the money laundering directive is implemented 28 differently in 28 member states. we do not have a uniform implementation in europe. and secondly, cooperation between the judicial authorities and the financial supervisory authorities is not working at national level either, and in crossborder cases nothing is working at all. so if i look at these two problems, there are actually two solutions. the first solution is no longer a directive but a regulation. if we want uniform law in europe, we must go the way of the regulation. and secondly, if cooperation does not work, and - and i am not offended - although we have just negotiated that the european banking authority, as the supervisory authority, should check that everything is done correctly, you are not fighting money laundering, you are just creating forms between supervisory authorities. we need a structure that can penetrate. we have olaf in the commission, we have the european public prosecutor in cases against the financial interests of the european union, and we should really be thinking, madam justice commissioner, whether there is not a proposal to give the european public prosecutor or a similar structure access rights, so that criminal law can also be used here to react quickly and not be left in the hands of the member states. we must act urgently here. the figures have been given. we must not flatter ourselves, but we must work out solutions. this parliament is ready to do so, so please deliver that clear message in the debate today, in the vote tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'll get right on that. we have strict anti-money laundering regulations in the european union. but what good are the strictest laws if they are not enforced, if they are not properly enforced, if they are not subject to strict supervision? the supervision of the money laundering directive is strongly national in focus. this has to stop! we're in agreement on that. we must also recognize that the problem can be solved in the long term by a european anti-money laundering authority. until then, a european anti-money laundering unit must take over this task. each new money laundering scandal is bigger than the last. we cannot wait for the next scandal to break. and the second point, that is the problem of the golden visa a lucrative source of revenue for some countries. rich people can buy citizenship or residency like a luxury item, like a car, like a villa, like a yacht, like an expensive handbag, without questioning the source of the funds. this is outrageous! because we know that money laundering goes hand in hand with corruption, with tax evasion, with criminal activity. the problem must be tackled in a holistic way. and as such, the commission must also start with the golden visas and make practical proposals on how we will solve the problem in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a security risk in europe that is notoriously neglected by governments, and that is the issue of money laundering. we have billions of dollars of money laundering every year. criminals make billions and billions, so to speak, from the worst forms of economic efficiency. this money is laundered and then reinvested in the criminal economy in terrorism, but increasingly it is also used to buy houses, and in the real estate centers, prices are driven up accordingly. and as we're talking about this, we see that we actually have the legal options. europe offers the legal means for member states to act against this. but we still have a widespread failure of the member states to prosecute money laundering. the ten biggest money laundering scandals that the european commission has identified make this failure abundantly clear. we have to go to the biggest member state, germany, instead of going to some notorious tax havens like cyprus, malta and so on. about 100 billion euros are laundered in germany every year. the financial intelligence unit has 20,000 suspicious money laundering reports, but most of them are unaddressed. the authority is not functioning, although it has been a european requirement to equip it properly since the third money laundering directive, which has been in force for over ten years. i have been arguing for months with the european commission services about whether to initiate an infringement procedure here. and it is precisely such infringement procedures that would be appropriate not only for germany but for a whole series of member states which simply must not only implement the draft law accordingly but also finally implement this draft law in reality. i therefore ask you in the european commission to open a new chapter here! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's anti-money laundering legislation is applied. and for all those who do not, you will finally be bringing infringement proceedings that are really about implementation! we must finally solve this through common european institutions - as several speakers have said here - which can actually act and take action at european level. and you in the council can do a great deal to make implementation work at last and to help us create such european institutions.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, it is true that this is a complex, technical-looking subject, but i believe it is very important for the credibility of the european union. during the previous term of office we had already discussed these texts on money laundering. i would remind you that our emotions were caused by a number of scandals, including the panama papers. and yet we are talking about money laundering activities linked to corruption, arms trafficking, human trafficking, drug trafficking and tax evasion. this is a matter of hundreds of billions of euros, so it is really a very important subject. what do the text we are discussing today and the commission's assessments show? because today there are insufficiencies, insufficiencies that are unbearable. first, the transposition of the directives has not really had any effect, and this is the case in the majority of member states. so at some point, we're still gonna have to find the violations. secondly, we have not spoken about this from the beginning, but the european banking authority's capacity for impulse and decision-making seems to have reached certain limits - limits which were also stated by the president himself. finally, we parliamentarians bear in mind the council's refusal to approve the list of 23 countries whose action is notoriously weak in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. you remember the debate and the fateful decision to acquit proven accomplices of terrorism, like saudi arabia, or tax havens, like the virgin islands or panama. so now is really the time to act. and indeed, the problem we face today, the question we face is, is it not time to go to the rules of procedure? because we really have a powerlessness that is very worrying for us parliamentarians, but especially for european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of illicit proceeds into the legal economy is a crime of high social danger, it has cross-border implications, it distorts the internal market and competition and it ends up harming companies that respect the rules. it also allows criminal individuals and organisations, including terrorist organisations, to obtain sources of funding to further fuel their activities. as a delegation of the five star movement we have made the fight against this phenomenon a priority in our national and european programme. we have made an important contribution to this with the directive on combating money laundering by criminal law, for example by prohibiting those convicted of this crime from entering into contracts with public authorities, accessing public funding or running for elected office. in addition, the legislative initiative report on the fight against corruption and organised crime, for which i was rapporteur, took another step towards the extension at european level of effective anti-mafia legislation through common minimum standards, stronger judicial and police cooperation and better information exchange. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, money laundering, as we know, is a consequence of criminal acts. we have several examples of politicians, businessmen, fraudsters, all of whom see how they can hide these illegally acquired funds. the truth is that it is not easy to see all these complex structures in several jurisdictions and often involving a large number of financial entities. many institutions do their investigations but many also fail, and when they fail and do not investigate, or prosecute, money laundering cases, it has to be the whistleblowers and investigative journalists who risk their lives to uncover it all. we all know stories from journalists like daphne caruana galizia and jan kuciak! next month, i would like to remind you here, is the second anniversary of the brutal murder of daphne caruana galizia. i believe that if the institutions had been more effective in combating money laundering, perhaps daphne caruana galizia would still be with us today. and so i agree that things need to change. it cannot be that good and honest businessmen who are in the majority play by the rules while those in power and corrupt continue to do as they please to the detriment of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against money laundering is a priority in order to combat the most serious forms of transnational crime and to protect the european economy from dangerous distortions which can undermine the confidence of citizens in banking and financial institutions. the most recent money laundering scandals in the banking system continue to highlight the need for an effective supervision and enforcement system to prevent, identify and sanction infringements by economic operators. this system requires the exchange of information, close interdisciplinary cooperation between banking regulators and police and judicial authorities, and also transnational coordination between all the actors involved in the fight against fraud. the european union has recently adopted important legislative instruments: the fifth anti-money laundering directive; the directive on the exchange of information between fius and law enforcement authorities for the prevention of serious crime; the most significant directive is the one which harmonises the criminal definition of money laundering. the commission also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union. however, the proper and timely implementation of these instruments needs to be monitored and further work needs to be done to promote closer cooperation between banking regulators at european and national level and the judicial authorities of the member states.
madam president, approximately 188 billion euros, or 1% of the gross domestic product of the european union, is money involved in suspicious financial activities every year. the fourth anti-money laundering directive was to be implemented by june 2017. the creativity of some member states in transposing this directive has exceeded all expectations: from excessive measures imposed on non-governmental organisations to famous transposition tables such as that of former minister toader, which had whole paragraphs of the directive in one column and the phrase 'it does not apply' in the other column. the reality is that none of the 28 member states has fully and correctly transposed the fourth directive. the fifth directive should be transposed by january 2020. only eight member states have so far transposed this directive. i think the answer is simple. we need regulations. if the transposition of directives does not work, we need regulations and we have no time to lose. we need both regulations in this area, which is essential for the functioning of the union and for combating serious crime, and firm sanctions for those member states that do not comply and do not implement the regulations.
member of the commission. – madam president, the debate clearly shows that this will remain the priority for this term of office, and i heard the contribution by those of you who went through the saga of all the action against money laundering in the term that is now finishing. we did a lot of useful things both in legislation and in supervision and we pushed on implementation, but i would never say that the situation is ideal, or that there is nothing to improve. it will be a priority in this term of office for this commission and this parliament to take further action, and i agree that it should be, or could be, the regulation so that member states will not be able to deviate from the purpose of why we are doing all this legislation against money laundering. we are not talking here about money, we are talking about serious organised crime. we are talking about the money which enables the serious organised crime, and we are also talking about people’s trust – trust that we will do something together which will change the situation and which will finally be efficient. we want to have a healthy financial system in europe, which is the important element of european prosperity, so we have to filter out the risks and address them through properly functioning rules to be implemented by all. and to those of you who said that our system is only as strong as the weakest element of the system – exactly! this system must be taken seriously by all the member states. i heard here that the member states should be motivated. well, the motivation should be the same everywhere – that the laws must be implemented – and that is the crucial task of the member states. but we have negative motivation, we have infringements. i can give you a picture of what we are doing to enforce the anti-money laundering (aml) directive. the process of supervision led to the opening of infringement proceedings against all – all – member states, and at this moment the proceedings have been closed for five member states only. for all the other member states, the commission has issued letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions and the procedure is ongoing. on the fifth aml directive, to be transposed in january next year, up to now we have received the following notifications: three member states notified complete transposition, and another five notified transposition measures. for the rest, we are monitoring the situation, and we will act very soon after the implementation date. i shared with you my view that the regulation will be needed: it will be the right step forward. of course, i am leaving this sector, so it is just my personal view after working on this topic. as to why we adopted the fourth and fifth aml directives: well, the fifth directive, which was adopted in my term of office, was a clear and very quick reaction to the panama papers scandal and to terrorist attacks, which it was not easy to predict or uncover early enough because there were anonymous payments involved. we had to react to that. we also had to react to a very clear request for full transparency of beneficial ownership, and here i want to respond to mr kolakušić, or mr peksa. it was my personal very strong desire to make the beneficial ownership register fully open, fully transparent for the public, without differentiation between who has a legally proven interest and who does not, including journalists. and that will be the case. we will have fully public registers. for trust funds, the situation was more difficult, because some trust funds have a purely private foundation. so we are addressing, especially, commercial trusts, but for other trusts too there will be the possibility of getting information about the owners. other steps forward could include full implementation of the regulation on financial intelligence units’ cooperation. mr radev has left, and i had wanted to thank him for his efforts because he was the rapporteur on this piece of legislation. he could give me his confirmation that it was a very tough exercise to convince the member states to take the necessary measures so that financial intelligence units cooperate and share information with the law-enforcement authorities within their country, and even more difficult to convince them that there should be an exchange of information cross-border. so, to those who mentioned cross-border cooperation: it’s very weak, you are right, and we tried to improve it through this new piece of legislation, but it was not tough enough and we had to make compromises. here too i expect some progress in this parliamentary term. on the question of having one union body for better supervision, while we have taken the first step, the european banking authority should have strengthened competences, and it is in the legislation that there should be better data collection and the possibility to act when a member state seems to be failing to act – which was, by the way, the case of the danske estonian bank. i still cannot imagine how it is possible, over five or seven years, for the laundering of up to eur 200 billion to go unnoticed. who failed? the investigations are still ongoing and we will know for sure who is failing, or who was the failure in the system. denmark, in the meantime, has changed its legislation. so there are reactions, but i certainly agree that there should be one strong union body which should supervise this. there was also a question from ms tomc: who will act at european level when the member states fail in the field of criminal law? well, the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) will start functioning from november next year, and this will be the body having specialised prosecutors on financial crime. it would be worth considering whether the eppo could not be the body which takes cases over if member states fail. i know i am speaking for too long, but there were many questions. just to conclude, mr casa mentioned the whistle-blowers directive, and this might also bring some benefits. thank you very much for your patience. i felt the need and obligation to react to your comments and questions because this is a priority topic, which needs to be well mastered on a political level, at european union level, in the next term of office.
thank you, commissioner. it is very good to see that you always respond and answer the questions from meps. not every commissioner does the same, so thank you very much for your engagement and involvement in this very important topic.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate. i have followed your valuable contributions with great interest. i’ve also heard the input from the commission, which i highly value. i hope also that the commission-to-come is aiming high here. i was asked in particular asked about the actions taken by the council with regard to money laundering and the recent scandals in our banks, and i agree that this is a problem. we need to get to the bottom of the issue and address it further if we conclude that the measures taken recently are not enough. we are starting to analyse the commission’s post-mortem review of the recent alleged money laundering cases involving eu banks, and the council will discuss this in october, that is, next month. we plan to arrive at conclusions by december this year, so actions will follow. i also take this opportunity to reaffirm the importance which the presidency attaches to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing and i look forward to working together on these matters. the message from this discussion has been very clear: there needs to be more done for anti-money laundering and the subject was widely supported by all the different political groups. i personally can promise you that i will convey your message to my colleague, the minister of finance, as your contribution on this very important issue. the presidency will remain available for exchanges on the subject as needed, so i would like to thank you all very much again for your commitment to this issue.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 september 2019. written statements (rule 171)
the first item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in turkey, in particular the removal of elected mayors (2019/2821 ((rsp)). before i open this debate, i would like to announce that during this week's sitting of the house a new system is being tested which allows members to register electronically for the catch-the-eye procedure and the blue card question procedure. you have already received information about the use of this system by e-mail and the corresponding written instructions are available at your desk. you can submit your request to intervene in the debate by using the special keys on the electronic voting machine. please also note that, alongside the use of the electronic system, there will also be the possibility to submit your request in the usual way (i.e. by raising a blank sheet of paper or by submitting the request in person at the start of the debate to your colleagues in the plenary for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure; and raising a blue card for the procedure of the 'blue card question'). the electronic system will be tested during various discussions. i would therefore remind you to always have your voting card with you so that you can use the system. the system will also be tested during the debate which is starting right now and, as i said, the situation in turkey, and in particular the removal of elected mayors.
author. mr president, i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs of this resolution for their cooperation, which made it clear that we are committed to supporting democratic forces in turkey and to human and political rights. the current government's attitude towards the kurds is beyond all limits. the situation of the kurds in turkey has been complicated for a long time, but what is happening there really requires our urgent action, our appeal to the turkish government that it cannot act in this way as a member of the council of europe, as a member of nato. yes, the pkk is an organization that the european union considers to be a terrorist organization, but that does not mean that turkey can apply collective guilt to all kurdish politicians. this is simply an approach that could lead to another genocide in its wake. the turkish government is against itself. she should try to find some way out of the peaceful relationship with the kurds. and it should not violate its own laws as our resolution states. we're listing the specific names of mayors who were removed, replaced by mayors who are from the ruling party. but this is not just about the kurds and the hdp. the turkish government is also putting pressure on the opposition republicans, and that's why we are making it clear here that we do not accept this fact, and erdogan must reckon that in a democratic society the opposition can win, it's just normal. the opposition has its rights and should have the right to exercise its mandate. and let me make one more note. not only the european court of human rights, but there is also the new building of the turkish embassy to the council of europe and its consulate, which they are certainly planning to use, but if they do not respect human rights, obligations to the council of europe, then this beautiful building is being built in vain. they should consider it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i believe that in recent years violence, human rights violations and terrorism in and outside turkey have become the norm. and i am one of those who believe that the issue with the violation of laws and rules for elected mayors is simply a continuation of many other violations that have turned turkey into an open country of prison, violence and terrorism; a terrorism that is not limited to turkey but is also exported to neighboring countries. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and that is why today, if we really want to contribute not just with another resolution but with real work as the european parliament and as democratically elected members, we must shout and send the message with concrete measures: 'zero tolerance for turkey! i'm not sure. the european parliament and the european union have taken concrete measures for other countries both within and outside the european union, without hurrying, applying principles and values. we are not going to make concessions to turkey. and if we really want to put this into practice, we must all - because i imagine that none of you can tolerate that your country is suffering what my country is suffering, nor can you tolerate these human rights violations - we must, i repeat, proceed to freeze turkey's accession funds. no money in this country that terrorizes inside and outside turkey! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i am convinced that this resolution will not move mr erdogan either. mr erdoğan is very much dependent on the european union, and although he is blackmailing and threatening cyprus by violating the exclusive economic zone, by violating resolutions on the sandbox and by blackmailing on the migration issue, you should know, mr president, that turkey is very much dependent on the european union, and the freezing of funds and the freezing of economic and trade relations is what will really force turkey to step up and respect human rights.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, after 17 years in power, the foundation of erdogan's regime is beginning to shake. the june elections were a very clear sign of this: it lost control in seven of turkey's ten largest municipalities. sentencing opposition leaders to ten years in prison for terrorism and insulting the president is revenge. it is nothing but a revenge, as are the harassment and sentencing against those who freely express their opinion on social networks or against journalists. erdogan has contempt for democracy, human rights and the political choices of his citizens. the most recent and living proof is the removal of the elected mayors of diyarbakır, mardin and van. we have to be very firm in any discussion or negotiation with turkey and stop the hypocrisy. condition funding and economic partnerships on respect for human rights, not just for erdogan, but for all the undemocratic regimes that crush freedom.
mr. chairman, members of the house of representatives. europe must remember that the horrors of the 20th century against humanity will never be repeated, neither nazism nor communism. the countries of central and eastern europe are still struggling with the devastating effects of fifty years of communist and socialist dictatorship. my generation in romania was only partly affected, but my parents and grandparents were devastated by the communist dictatorship. recovery, while a small consolation, is also slow and incomplete. the restitution of property confiscated from historic churches and national minorities despite being regulated by law has not yet been completed. it is important to remind member states that the laws on the return of immovable property are to be applied immediately and in full. in the eastern half of europe, we have to make up for 50 years of backwardness with development and a change of mentality. the european union's cohesion funds are doing just that in the recovery of eastern europe, but in parallel the idea of 'never again' must be nurtured and passed on to the next generation. that's what we did in this house today.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 september 2019.
it was with great emotion that i learned of the death of mr jacques chirac, president of the french republic. he was a man devoted to his country, to the city of paris, and he was also a great european. he was a founding mep and has always advocated peace, tolerance and democracy, which are the founding values of europe. our sympathies go out to his family and the people of france. i would like parliament to pay tribute to him.
i should also like to speak briefly to those who lost their lives in the recent shipwreck off the coast of lampedusa. we're at yet another shipwreck. i would like to say, and i know you feel the same way, that i no longer have to speak in this house about the deaths in the mediterranean, but only about concrete measures to put an end to this tragic situation. i would like to be close to you, the german police, the german people, the german jewish community. german police confirm that at least two people were killed today in halle, one of the most important cities in saxony in the east of the country, and that the attacker is on the run. the situation is still unclear. our thoughts are with the families, friends of the victims and the german people. for these reasons, i invite you to observe a minute of silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the minutes and the texts approved at the meeting of 19 september 2019 are available here. are there any comments?
then there are no comments on the minutes and the texts adopted. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 19 september 2019. there are some requests for amendment. i have received a request for the urgency procedure under rule 163 of the rules of procedure. the request was made by the committee on transport and tourism and concerns the proposal for a regulation to ensure basic links for road freight and air connectivity periods of application. the vote on this request will take place tomorrow, thursday, 10 october, at the beginning of the voting period. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposals for amendments to the final draft agenda. wednesdaythe council and commission statements on the 'multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and own resources: time to meet citizens' expectations' are moved as the first item to thursday morning. these statements are replaced by the commission statement on the greening of the european investment bank, which is being moved from thursday to wednesday. the third item on the agenda for wednesday is a statement by the commission on the us tariffs on european products following the wto decision on the airbus case. the fourth item on the agenda for wednesday is a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in northern syria. thursdaythe council and commission statements on the 'multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and own resources: time to meet citizens' expectations' are moved as the first item to thursday morning. the report by mr de lange on the economic policies of the euro area in 2019 is deleted from the agenda. in addition, five objections under rule 112 have been approved by the envi committee and will be put to the vote directly: active substances, active substances including chlorotoluron, genetically modified maize, genetically modified soybean and genetically modified maize, etc. are there any objections to all these changes?
mr president, together with our coordinator we believe that it is the right time for a debate on authorisations of gmos – as some colleagues will know, in its last sitting parliament adopted... (the president interrupted the speaker)
is there any objection to everything we've said? if there are no objections, the amendments which i have proposed and which have been proposed by the political groups are approved. (parliament adopted the amendments) wednesday as for wednesday, the green group asked for a statement from the commission on the authorization of gmos to be added as the last item in the afternoon before the one-minute speeches. i now give the floor to mr metz to present the request on behalf of the green group.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, sorry for starting too early before. together with our coordinator, we believe that it is the right time for a debate on authorisations of gmos. as some colleagues will know, in its last sitting parliament adopted 36 objections to gmo authorisations. the resolutions outlined concerns we have surrounding health risks due to gaps in safety assessment, and they also highlighted the commission’s lack of respect for democracy in the decision-making process. the commission continues to authorise gmos despite lack of support from member states, and parliament’s objections. tomorrow, the parliament will vote on three new objections and the new commission will shortly start its mandate. this is therefore a good moment for this new parliament and the commission to exchange views on this issue. i hope colleagues can support this request.
as for wednesday, the gue and the green group asked that the council and commission statements on how to avoid conflicts of interest in the european union be added as the third item in the afternoon, after the commission statement on the greening of the european investment bank. i give the floor to mr aubry to present the request on behalf of the gue group.
as regards the agenda for wednesday, the ppe group has asked that a statement by the commission on the fight against cancer be added as the last item in the afternoon before the one-minute speeches. the debate will conclude with a resolution to be voted on tomorrow. i give the floor to mr liese to present the request of the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the intention of the european people’s party (epp) is that we establish a non-permanent committee on the fight against cancer. cancer is a disease that still kills too many europeans, and, during the campaign, we learned how important this issue is for our citizens. we know that the new commission also wants to make it a priority. europe cannot solve the problem alone, but without europe we will not solve the problem. i ask you to support this request, especially as coordinator of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). envi is responsible for public health, but we have many other issues, for example, the green deal. we also need to work together with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and colleagues from other committees. that’s why i think this non-permanent committee would be a good opportunity. i understand that some groups are not prepared to support the resolution this week, because they need some fine-tuning on the text. our compromise proposal is therefore to have a debate today and then, in two weeks’ time, we will have the resolution for the exact mandate of this non-permanent committee. please support us in the fight against cancer.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. of course, we in the s&d group support doing everything we can to fight cancer. we don't want any family to have to go through the suffering and pain that comes with seeing a loved one get sick and in the worst case scenario, be taken away. many of us have experienced this and have memories of what it means. we think it is important that we can take this debate to the plenary and show that we want to do this work thoroughly. however, it is important to separate the issue and ensure that the resolution work is carried out in the best possible way. we therefore want a separate vote on the debate in plenary. at the same time, we're gonna make the resolution right. i would like to say to peter liese and the ppe that to do it thoroughly is to go back to the environment committee and the health committee and make sure that the fight against cancer is taken up there. with all the experts out there, all the members with the expertise, that's where we're going to do the best work on cancer prevention. the best way to fight disease is to prevent the underlying causes of human illness. colleagues, it is important that this work is done properly. the citizens of europe deserve only the best. everyone in this parliament has a responsibility to do what we can to help. then it can't be a garden plant. it's not supposed to happen at the wrong level. it will be done in the envi committee, and it will be done together with all those who have the competence to make sure that we arrive at the best way to prevent these diseases.
thank you, mr guteland. we listened to mr liese. i would suggest that we hold the debate now and then vote on the resolution at a later part-session. i think that is in the spirit of liese's speech and in the spirit of guteland's speech. (parliament adopted the resolution) the id group called for the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in northern syria to be concluded with a resolution to be voted on at the october ii part-session. i give the floor to mr. ivan david to present the request of the id group.
following the amendments adopted and in agreement with the political groups, i propose that the sitting be extended from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. today because we have put a lot of things on the agenda. i hope there are no objections. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 17 and 18 october 2019 (2019/2711 ((rsp)).
mr. president, the tug bourbon rhode owned by a french shipping company sank on september 26 in the atlantic, 2,000 kilometers from the french island of martinique. the search so far has resulted in the discovery of three survivors and the bodies of four deceased sailors. seven sailors are still being sought, including the captain of the ship, dina miškić. i hereby appeal to the leaders of all 28 member states of the union who can in any way assist in locating and rescuing these seven seafarers, to do so. the very essence of the european union lies precisely in the mutual solidarity of the individual member states, which can offer a genuine added value to this community and its citizens. i find it hard to accept the announcement by french crisis commander cross of martinique that the search was abandoned with such ease, especially when it is known that some people were rescued even after more than 50 days at sea. i am convinced that none of us can even imagine this feeling. (the president interrupted)
mr tomasić, we are starting a debate. we are starting a very important debate. for communications, please ask for the floor before, but not when i have already started to discuss an agenda. i would also ask those of you who are leaving to stay for a while because this debate is very important. we are talking about the preparation of the european council meeting on 17 and 18 october. i thank president juncker, mr barnier and minister tuppurainen for being with us today. but i also need to make a few remarks, just at the beginning of this debate. as you know, i was invited by prime minister johnson to london yesterday for an interview with him. i would like to inform the house because i have taken to prime minister johnson the position which the european parliament voted in the last plenary on the brexit question. despite some confidence and hope, i have had to admit that there is not much progress at the moment. as is well known, any agreement reached between the european union and the united kingdom must not only be voted on by the house of commons but also approved by the european parliament. therefore, it is vital that the prime minister knows our position. our approach is very simple: we think that an orderly brexit, a uk exit with a deal, is by far the best outcome. as i explained to prime minister johnson, the european parliament will not accept an agreement at any cost. we will not accept anything that undermines the good friday agreement and the peace process or undermines the integrity of our single market, as was made abundantly clear in our resolution last september. we have looked at the proposals put forward by the united kingdom recently as an alternative to the original backstop. our assessment at prime minister johnson was that they do not, at the moment, constitute a basis on which to reach an agreement. they are ideas, but they are not proposals that are feasible, immediately feasible. there are two alternatives to a deal right now: extension or no deal. parliament is of course open to the possibility of extension, if there are good reasons or specific objectives. but it is the responsibility and the prerogative of the united kingdom to apply for extension. as regards the no-deal scenario, i have been very clear that this would be a very negative outcome, with serious economic consequences for both sides, but in particular for the united kingdom and its citizens. but failure to reach an agreement would clearly be the responsibility of the british government. as for the citizens, i reiterated to prime minister johnson that the european parliament will continue to ensure that their rights are protected, whatever the scenario. i also had a very productive meeting with the speaker of the house of commons, john bercow, this morning. i have expressed my view that any request by the uk institutions for an extension of the withdrawal period should be used to give the british people a voice again - as this house has said - by means of a referendum or a general election. there was full agreement with john bercow on the importance of the role of our parliaments in the management of brexit and there is a shared awareness that a disorderly exit of the united kingdom from the european union would be against the interests of british and european citizens. i very much hope that a no-deal exit will eventually be avoided, even if the european union has taken all the necessary measures to prepare for and deal with the consequences.
president-in-office of the council. – grazie president, honourable members of the parliament, next week’s council comes at a crucial point. at the upcoming european council meeting, leaders will be discussing some of the most pressing issues for the union. let me start with the multiannual financial framework (mff) on which the leaders will have the first substantial discussion. you will recall that the june european council conclusions expressed the ambition to aim for an agreement before the end of the year. the presidency has pursued work in line with that ambition. during the past months we have consulted and had extensive discussions with member states in order to identify their priorities and where the so—called room for negotiation lies. we have now prepared a presidency paper to frame discussions at the october european council. i believe it will be a good starting point for the leaders to provide further strategic guidance and indications for the presidency’s mff work. the european council will also discuss the strategic agenda, which leaders adopted in june. after four months they are keen to know how it’s been implemented within the council, but also, crucially, how it is reflected in the future work of the other institutions, particularly in the commission work programme. this is why commission president—elect ursula von der leyen will attend the european council and expand on this point with leaders. it is reassuring to see the largely similar objectives of the strategic agenda and ms von der leyen’s political guidelines. of course, the exchange of views between the leaders and the president of the european parliament will also be the perfect opportunity to hear the views of the parliament. beyond the discussion on the strategic agenda, leaders on this occasion will also formally appoint christine lagarde as the president of the european central bank. now, the next topical issue on the agenda is climate change, an existential threat that has been, and still is, at the centre of attention, not least after the discussions in new york. we, as a union, need to help raise global ambition and continue to lead the way on climate action. this is because we may soon reach a tipping point where we can only mitigate the effects of climate change instead of reversing them. but it is only with concerted global efforts that we can successfully tackle this global phenomenon. so, at the meeting in october, leaders will focus on the international aspects of climate change. they will discuss the outcome of the united nations’ efforts at the climate summit in new york and they will prepare for the upcoming cop25 in santiago de chile in december. i cannot exclude, however, that during the discussion leaders may touch upon the eu’s climate objectives, too. under external relations, it is likely that the leaders will discuss turkey in light of its continued drilling activities in the eastern mediterranean and take into account also broader eu—turkey relations, including cooperation in migration. the recent developments related to syria are likely to come up in this context as well and we have just received very worrisome news today. leaders will also discuss enlargement where the general affairs council discussions on the 15th october will be crucial in relation to albania and north macedonia. and, honourable members, finally, brexit is an issue that is likely to steal the limelight. as you know, on 2nd october the uk submitted proposals to overcome the extremely thorny backstop issue. these proposals do not yet provide a basis for concluding an agreement, but the eu remains fully committed to work with the uk and avoid a no—deal brexit. although we are prepared to face it, it would be irresponsible for both sides to ever claim that a no—deal scenario is an attractive option. this would have serious consequences on our borders, our customs, our trade, on our citizens’ rights, all fundamental issues for both the eu and the uk. and yet, the uk crashing out is a dangerously realistic scenario, given the constantly evolving situation, leaders will have to take stock of the very latest developments and decide how best to proceed. so, thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to our discussions.
president of the commission. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i shall be brief because we have come to the point rather late this afternoon and the president-in-office has said the main points on the european council's agenda, so there is no point in us going into unnecessary repetition here. when i took office here five years ago, i made a promise, and that promise was that the commission would try to present concrete results in the interests of the european citizens until the last moment. i stand by that promise and hope that the european council and the council of ministers will do the same, because they have both made a similar, if not the same, promise, and much of what is on the table in this house, in the council, and in some parts of parliament, needs to be tackled. we must now lay the foundations for a stable and capable europe in the years ahead, and this requires that we urgently move forward with or complete the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. this requires that we demonstrate our resolve in the fight against climate change, and this requires that we commit ourselves to the stability of our region and beyond. it is very important to agree on the multiannual financial framework. the summit next week must make real progress on this because the people of europe must be able to rely on the political leadership of the european union. i am displeased to see this row between member states, between member states and the commission, between member states, the commission and parliament. we're not up to the task. we should talk less now and finally reach conclusions, because it is very important that we ensure that european researchers can continue their projects, that young people can start their erasmus year on time, and that the planned infrastructure projects are carried out. that is why we must adopt the budget - the budgetary framework - quickly. the commission presented its proposals for multiannual financial planning relatively early, as i recall, in march, april, may 2018. a year and a half of debate with no discernible progress! we don't have another year and a half. if we do not reach agreement before the end of this year, at the latest at the beginning of next year, it will not be possible to put into practice the projects, programmes, intentions and initiatives that are planned. let us not make the same mistake as we did in the last multiannual financial planning, where we agreed only one month before the financial framework came into force, with the consequence that we lost two precious years - from 2014 to 2016 - to do what we had promised the people. that's enough! we must hurry, because it is not about us, it is not about the institutions, it is about the people of europe. the same applies to the challenges directly related to migration. here too, the commission had submitted proposals in spring 2015. they were adopted by qualified majority in the council but they are not being implemented. i would like the european council to return to this subject and to make sure that progress is made. migration is important, the budgetary framework is important. i will say here what i said yesterday and what i will say again the day after tomorrow - so long as i can still be here - whoever thinks that the european tasks of the future can be accomplished within a budget of 1% of the collective wealth of the european union is fundamentally mistaken! i say this to parliament, i say this to the council presidency and i will also make it clear to the european council once again. mr president, it is clear that climate change is one of the major challenges facing us. we were the first major economy in the world to be committed to the paris agreement, which would not have been possible without the european union. it is now necessary to put in place a legislative framework, of rules and not just words, in order to achieve all the objectives of this agreement, stimulating investment and social justice, which is not the least of the problems in the sectors in transition. it is clear that climate neutrality must be achieved by 2050 at the latest. it is no less obvious that the global transition to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement must accelerate. it is in this spirit that the many trade agreements of the european union which we have concluded in recent years and which are legally binding will continue to contain specific commitments on the implementation of the paris agreement, such as our agreement with japan and also the initial agreement with mercosur, which does not betray the objectives of the paris agreement. and even if one can doubt the good will of those who are supposed to implement it, it remains that, for the first time in the history of the european union, and therefore for the first time in the history of trade agreements, we have insisted on environmental and social standards. we therefore have an instrument which we can use to bring the most recalcitrant, the most reluctant to do what they have promised to do. i will say, mr president, one or two words about enlargement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. some of you were saddened and this has also provoked outrage in the western balkans region. but it is clear that to be responsible, one must be sincere. it was absolutely evident that there would be no enlargement between 2014 and 2019. but if it is just and justified to be sincere, it must also be sincere towards those who want to join. the situation in north macedonia and albania is progressing substantially. this is why president sassoli, president tusk, the president-elect of the council and myself have written a letter to the member states calling on them to keep the promises made to the countries of the western balkans, including north macedonia and albania. when europe is strong-willed, there is always a way to achieve the commonly agreed objectives. i take as an example the prespa agreement between north macedonia and greece. the european framework and the european perspective have helped to settle a conflict that has lasted for decades. the reforms undertaken by albania with courage will allow us to envisage, in a not generous but favourable way, the opening of negotiations with albania and north macedonia. the enlargement of the community is not a matter of course. it's not enough to be rich. it's not enough to be a big girl. it is also a question of deepening european integration by building on the values we share and which must not be abandoned when we join the european union. i would like to add a few words on turkey, which is characterised by relations with the european union which are as complex and as important as ever. turkey is, of course, a key partner for the european union, not least when it comes to cooperation on migration. my full commitment, and that of the commission and, hopefully, that of our union to the implementation of the eu-turkey statements of 2016 remains clear. the facility for refugees in turkey continues to deliver concrete results on the ground, and this should not be forgotten. there are other issues on which i cannot be so complimentary when it comes to turkey's illegal drilling operations in the eastern mediterranean. i have to repeat that in this respect (in others too, but mainly in this respect), i am a cypriot, and i will remain in full solidarity with cyprus. turkey has security concerns at its border with syria. however, i call on turkey, as well as on the other actors, to act with restraint and to stop operations already, as we are speaking, on their way. this military action is not leading to a good result, and we have to bring this to the attention of our turkish friends. and i have to say, if the turkish plan involves the creation of a so-called safe zone, don't expect the european union to pay for any of it. a sustainable solution to the syrian conflict and only be reached through a genuine political transition. president, dear members, as the european union moves forward, we must also deal with the departure of a member state. that was the choice of the british people, not a choice of a few european union members, although we are respecting that choice. as it stands, we remain in discussions with the united kingdom on the terms of its departure. and personally, i don't exclude a deal. michel and myself are working on a deal, and we are not accepting this blame game which started in london. we should not be blamed. but we'll see in the coming days how things will develop. my friend michel barnier wants to elaborate on this. i would like to repeat, for the attention of our british friends, that there is not only a parliament in westminster which has to agree; there is a parliament here. without the agreement of the european parliament, nothing will be possible. i promised to be brief. as always, i didn't keep my promises.
chief negotiator. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, mr president, i would like to add a few words to what president juncker has just said. so the british negotiators have told us their proposals and with their own team, which is a competent and professional team - i mean - they are trying to explain, to clarify - ourselves, we are asking a lot of questions in all the technical meetings that have been held in the last few days. and to put it simply and frankly, objectively, at the moment i am speaking to you, we are not at the point of considering and reaching an agreement, as you yourself, mr president sassoli, have reminded prime minister johnson very clearly, very strongly - and i thank you on behalf of parliament for that yesterday. and yet time is running out, ladies and gentlemen. we are now one week away from the european council and a few days from the date of 31 october, which was agreed with the previous government for the united kingdom's exit from the european union in an orderly fashion which is much better, as you said, than a disorderly exit. why aren't we there? because the british proposals raise three major problems. firstly, on the question of the border and control of property on the island of ireland. prime minister johnson rejected on arrival - we know that - the backstop, which is the kind of insurance or safety net that we had agreed with the theresa may government. that's a fact. at the same time, prime minister johnson recognises that regulatory alignment for goods is essential between northern ireland and the european union and we obviously agree on this. on the other hand, to solve the problem of customs controls, the united kingdom is simply proposing that we take a legal commitment together, in the international treaty that will bind us, to avoid, under any circumstances, customs or regulatory controls and any physical infrastructure at the border between ireland and northern ireland. of course, we share this objective, which is one of the objectives of the backstop: that there should be no border, no infrastructure. but what we are really being asked to do is to accept a system which is not developed, which is not tested, of controls scattered over the island of ireland and that would be largely based on exemptions, derogations from the european customs code, technologies which remain to be developed, changes to international law which are provided for by the common transit convention and finally a new compliance system but without the guarantees which are provided for by the protocol. ladies and gentlemen, we need customs controls, serious and rigorous regulatory controls everywhere, outside, at the external border of the single market and our customs union. in ireland, as elsewhere, we need operational controls, real controls, credible controls. it is the credibility of the single market that is at stake and therefore the credibility vis-à-vis consumers, businesses and also, we do not forget, third countries with which we are negotiating agreements. that's the first point of disagreement. the second point concerns the legitimate requirement to find legally operational solutions. with the protocol we have established a safety net which clarifies the regime applicable on the island of ireland and this safety net is legally operational as it would apply until and unless we find an alternative solution. by proposing to abolish this safety net, to abolish the backstop and to look for alternative solutions during the transition period, that is to say later, the british proposal does not give us the security of the protocol. one example: there is no real solution for small and mediumsized enterprises in these british proposals, except to propose a general derogation. second example: what would happen if the joint committee, to which the british want to refer all the questions that are not answered at the moment, could not reach an agreement during the transition? the uk projections suggest that the solution would then depend on unilateral measures to be taken by the uk or the eu. there would then, of course, be a significant risk to the integrity of the single market, since the uk proposals would also commit us to never having border controls between ireland and northern ireland, which would become two separate jurisdictions. the third point of disagreement, as i speak, is obviously the british proposal on consent. we have always regretted the absence of stormont for the last two and a half years to give a strong and strong northern irish voice in our negotiations. in the existing protocol, we have provided with the british mechanisms which allow northern ireland to be represented. we are ready to look again at new ideas for a greater role for the northern irish institutions in implementing the protocol in accordance with the good friday belfast agreement. but today the british proposal, as it is on the table, is simply to make the implementation of the protocol conditional on a unilateral decision by the institutions of northern ireland, which could then decide unilaterally, from the outset, the day after the ratification of the withdrawal agreement by your assembly and the house of commons, not to activate the proposed solution for northern ireland at all. and if it were still activated, the northern irish authorities could decide every four years to challenge it. ladies and gentlemen, the british government's proposal today, as it stands and which we cannot accept, would replace an operational, practical, legal solution with a hypothetical and provisional solution. finally, there is a fourth point which is really problematic, which is not the withdrawal agreement but the political declaration, which is next to the withdrawal agreement and is very important, because it describes what will happen after brexit, with an agreement, i hope, and even without an agreement, it is not a destination, it will have to be rebuilt with the united kingdom, everything that has been torn apart 44 years of integration and cooperation, it will have to be rebuilt a relationship in all areas: trade, security, universities, fisheries, aviation, police and judicial cooperation, defence and security. and we are outlining with the uk government the framework for this future relationship in this political declaration. today mr johnson is asking us to focus on the future of our economic relationship only on a basic free trade agreement and not on other options, which we left open in the political declaration. it also asks us to remove the references agreed with theresa may on a very important point, which is the level playing field, that is to say a basic rule of the game, a basis of fairness and rules of the game in taxation, state aid, social rights, environmental rights, consumer rights. so, we are faced with this demand. (applause) i would like to thank we are faced with this demand, which suggests the risk that we, with a basic free trade agreement, will have to face regulatory competition, or even a risk of fiscal, social or environmental dumping, which we will not accept. that is why i say, on this point, that the ambition and the level of our future free trade agreement with the united kingdom - because there will be a free trade agreement - will be commensurate with the level of commitments made by the british authorities in the long term to a common rule of the game. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, it should not surprise anyone in london or elsewhere that the european union is seeking, in this withdrawal agreement, to obtain legally sound and sustainable operational solutions. why would you do that? for a very simple reason, brexit, when it happens, will be sustainable. because brexit today creates - we know this well and i have been saying this for three years - concrete, specific, serious problems, particularly in ireland and in relation to the concrete, specific, serious, immediate problems that brexit creates, we need today and not tomorrow operational solutions that are legally binding on both sides and that are precise. in this grave and important moment, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will remain, as we have always been, calm, vigilant and constructive, while remaining respectful of the united kingdom and its leaders. it is in this attitude and with this attitude on both sides that we can have the ambition to reach an agreement that works for both sides. we will therefore remain with our team, which is your team, in permanent cooperation with the european parliament, with the brexit steering group - and i thank its members, and in particular guy verhofstadt - with all the member states, we will remain available 24 hours a day in the coming days to reach an agreement. it is in this spirit that i will meet again with british foreign secretary steve barclay tomorrow. i simply want to say that, in full respect of the mandate given to us by the european council, in full respect of the resolutions - you yourself spoke of your last resolution, mr president - and those of the european parliament, which are very important to me, we will continue to work. i think i can say today that, although it is very difficult for the reasons i have just indicated, if there is good will on both sides, an agreement with the british is still possible. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. president sassoli, president juncker, mr barnier, honourable members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a political union. i would like to begin by thanking you for the solidarity you have shown today with the victims of halle. mr president, there has been an attack on jewish life on german soil, and that is a shock to everyone, especially to me as a german. so thank you for that. this heinous crime that has taken place must be condemned. i'd also like to thank the police. anti-semites and all those who question the freedom of belief are not only our adversaries, they are our enemies. we are all called upon to stand up and say 'no' to anti-semitism. (applause from the centre) mr president, we are preparing for the european council, and i should like to begin by referring to the important messages of jean-claude juncker. the people now expect clear answers from us to the problems of our time. in these hours, in these days, many mayors, regional ministers are in brussels because the committee of the regions is meeting. and they want answers: what is the situation with the financing of regional aid, the mff? can we continue to fund our projects locally, yes or no? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. i would like to thank the finnish presidency for the progress made in this matter, but the heads of the commission must now take care of this too. i would like to make one thing clear to us, namely that the discussion on the mff is not a discussion about percentages, but about the political projects we want to implement. and if certain countries in the european union insist on having discussions only on percentages, then we must say that the percentages mentioned are not going to be enough to cope with the tasks that lie ahead of us. we will not be able to make a master plan for africa. we won't be able to reinforce frontex. we will not be able to tackle the research tasks in the fight against cancer and, ladies and gentlemen, we will also have to make sacrifices on the question of how to support our regions. with all these tasks, we need clarity now, and that is why i hope that the council will come to some conclusions here. the second thing i would like to do, of course, is to address the likely top issue of brexit. and i am less concerned about the content, because we fully support jean-claude juncker and michel barnier and we thank them for their work in keeping europe together, in defining clear lines of negotiation. it is well known that he can count on our support. what is more exciting to us, what is more exciting to me, is the style that has entered the debate. if yesterday there was a phone call between boris johnson and angela merkel and then this blame game is played, that we blame each other for not making progress in the talks, then we have to ask ourselves what happened. what is happening in the ground when, unfortunately, god's party politics are obviously more important than the interest of the country that these negotiations are supposed to be about? i think it is a sign that boris johnson's ideas were not presented in a plenary debate in the british house of commons, nor in talks with jean-claude juncker, but that boris johnson's initiatives on the future of the brexit negotiations were presented at the tory party congress. this shows very clearly that it is obviously not about reliable, reasonable negotiations, but about party politics, and this must also be branded, it must also be said that for a serious politician, for reasonable politics, the bringing together of interests is important and not the splitting of a country. ladies and gentlemen, the epp is still concerned about trade policy. i would just like to say that we have wto decisions now and i hope that we are now acting wisely between the united states and europe, namely finding a common path that does not lead to a trade war. a trade war would be a joy to others, but not to europe and not to america, and that is why we need the hand of the americans to resolve these conflicts now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the list is long now: illegal migration is on the rise again and it is obvious that the turkish authorities are not stopping it. we have the drilling in cypriot waters, obviously illegal activities. we have the fact that through the turkish occupied areas in cyprus a kind of backstop solution is now being practiced, products are entering the european market unregulated. we have the military activities, which are very worrying, where we know that the kurds were partners in the fight against isis and also helped us there, and the general question of the values of freedom of the press in turkey. and that is why i hope that turkey, as a partner, will continue to take the european union's partnership approach seriously. on the other hand, we should also ask whether the good economic relations between the european union and turkey can be maintained in this way for a long time, when unfortunately we have a partner in the world with turkey who is more aggressive than partners. we are ready to partner in all these areas, but turkey must also know that if the partnership is not put into practice, there will also be consequences.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming european council debate on 17 and 18 october is expected to discuss a set of key challenges for the future of the european union: the budgetary framework for 2021-2027, the union's priorities for the next five years, brexit and climate change. our aspiration for a europe of the peoples closely united will only be realised if we are able to agree on a solid budget. with the resolution that this house is going to vote on tomorrow, we reaffirm our firm commitment to the priorities and items included in the provisional report on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which we will approve in november 2019. additional financial support is essential to deliver on the commitments made by the president-elect of the european commission and, in particular, for a just ecological transition. we have been waiting since november to enter into negotiations with the council, which means that we have wasted almost a year. we therefore ask the council to start negotiations on the next budgetary framework and we also remind it that this budgetary framework is decided by codecision, that is to say that we will not tolerate any attempt by the council to undermine the prerogatives of this parliament. we will not approve the next multiannual budget unless we reach an agreement on the reform of the european union's own resources system. because only with an ambitious budget will the union be able to meet the priorities of the strategic agenda for 2019-2024. under the strategic agenda, heads of state and government have a responsibility to urgently deliver on the following priorities: the development of the european pillar of social rights, which is a top priority for moving towards a fairer europe; the reform of the dublin system on asylum and immigration; the integration of the sustainable development goals into the european semester, and the goal of a climate neutral europe by 2050; the combination of banking and tax union and the fight against tax fraud to ensure a fair contribution to the strengthening of the europe of well-being. only by addressing these priorities can we eradicate the populist discourse that is savagely ravaging our continent, a discourse that understands patriotism only as a weapon against the other and not as the defence of a common good. it is the same speech that is driving prime minister boris johnson into a corner and leading his country, which has been a beacon of democracy and enlightenment, into the darkness of ignorance and unreason. for this reason, we will not accept your government's proposal to replace the northern ireland protocol with a new protocol which does not include the so-called backstop. let us be clear: the social democrats will only support a proposal which prevents a border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. any solution must avoid jeopardizing the peace process and protect the integrity of our single market, in defence of consumers and businesses. our political family is standing firm, as we did in the last plenary session when we adopted the resolution. we are prepared to support an extension of article 50 to avoid a no-deal brexit because it would harm us all - let's be clear - all, europe, the united kingdom, the citizens as a whole. and we also talked about issues that are now at the heart of the agenda: the fight against climate change. in this context, the recent climate action summit in new york has shown that only the european union can provide the leadership needed in this area. the fight against climate change and the achievement of the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals are of vital importance for the european union and developing countries to address the devastating economic, social and environmental consequences of human activity. a coherent implementation of the different external and internal policies of the union and a robust financial framework for the implementation of adaptation and mitigation measures are key to reducing the impact of global warming. on 17 and 18 october, the leaders of the european council will have a window of opportunity to solve the problems of citizenship. this parliament is ready. it's in your hands.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the council will have the brexit issue on the agenda again. i welcome the fact that the uk government finally produced some proposals last week, but i am also very concerned about their content. we have always been open to workable and legally operable solutions, but let’s be clear: as they currently stand, they cannot be the basis of an agreement. as they currently stand, we will not and cannot support them. any new uk proposals need to respect the good friday agreement, protect our citizens and the integrity of the single market. we have grave concerns about the uk proposal, not least fuelled by the latest recriminations arriving from london. this is not and should never be a blame game. we still have time to avoid a no-deal situation that would be catastrophic. en parlant maintenant du budget, qui est lui aussi aussi au programme des débats du conseil, nous devons avoir des perspectives claires sur la direction que nous voulons donner à l’europe. le budget européen est lié à la direction politique que nous donnons à l’europe, ce ne sont pas seulement des chiffres. n’oublions pas que nos électeurs et nos citoyens attendent de nous que nous mettions en œuvre le programme sur lequel nous nous sommes engagés en juillet. nous avons besoin de perspectives politiques, mais aussi de perspectives budgétaires. le budget européen, ce ne sont pas que des chiffres, c’est aussi une vision politique, une vision de la valeur ajoutée de l’europe. c’est le moment de prouver que nous assumons, de fait, ce projet européen. un vrai budget européen devrait disposer de ressources propres. nous devons avoir le courage d’aborder ce sujet, de ne pas l’éviter, et de trouver comment faire pour partager la charge de ce budget entre la contribution des états membres et les ressources propres, pour avoir une vision claire sur ces perspectives budgétaires. monsieur le président sassoli, devant le conseil, vous aurez à porter, en notre nom, une ambition forte pour le budget, car le parlement a une ambition forte pour l’europe et l’europe a besoin du budget.
mr. president, i want to say that this brexit is not about the left, the right or the politicians. it's about people first, and i come from iasi, romania, where many of my colleagues at the er work in the uk, and i know how hard life can be when the rules are imposed from elsewhere. i believe that we are democratically elected here in the european parliament to protect the citizens who sent us here. that's why i ask everyone here today to find solutions to extend this article 50 so that it's good for everyone. beyond political demands, i believe that unity in diversity must remain the guiding principle in europe, and if we are talking about the multiannual financial framework, let me say with great reservations that it is the solution needed for europe at this time. there are many inequalities, there are many disparities, i wish that in my country too there were highways and regional hospitals, there were funds for infrastructure, and i think that the current budget does not solve this problem. but precisely because the european citizens sent us here, i am convinced that together we can find solutions here too, because unity in diversity must remain the healthy solution for all. thank you. thank you.
mr president, obviously by investing in green we are investing in the future, but let's not be hypocrites to make this happen we need clear criteria, we cannot ignore the reality that 250 000 european citizens live off this industry and that additional funds must be allocated precisely to find the necessary solutions. i work in iasi in an emergency hospital where i see the effects of pollution, of a poor infrastructure, and i think that clear criteria must be set, perhaps by the european parliament, so that these ecological goals, which we all want, have a chance of being completed. i ask the european parliament today, we are many people who want green energy and green transport to be the healthy solution for the future, to come up with clear criteria and with additional investments, especially in those areas of europe that really need to make these transformations in the poor areas that will more easily accept to align with these european requirements. let us give europe a green light and come up with clear criteria. thank you. thank you.
mr. president, the discussions tonight have terrified me. i have seen that there are subjective criteria, political criteria in assessing the integrity of those who should be in certain public offices, and i, as a european citizen, want the same criteria to exist for everyone, regardless of the public office or the european institution in which that individual is. if three of the members of the legal affairs committee have raised question marks, i want to tell you tonight that we need very clear rules and an independent body to assess these things, because if there are political conflicts in a state, they could translate into the assessment from some committee and there will always be a question mark whether the assessments were correct or were shadowed by a political interest. i want integrity for every european politician, and that is why i am asking you today to find that solution, that an independent body assesses every time, for all european institutions, for all categories of officials, the integrity of those who are there. otherwise, we're just saying, this is hypocrisy. three of the members of the judiciary committee raised big question marks tonight and obviously i'm asking myself the same questions. thank you. thank you.
mr. president, although the minorities in ukraine have put their hopes in the election promises of president zelensky, according to the new minister of education, i quote, schools of national minorities speaking in a language of the european union, from september 2023, will switch to teaching in the ukrainian language. kiev needs to understand that the minorities on the territory of ukraine, whether they are ethnic romanians, hungarians or russians, have the right to preserve their language, customs and culture, thereby contributing to the enrichment of the cultural heritage of ukraine. i would like to point out that in chernivtsi, odessa and transcarpathia there are more than half a million romanian speakers. the solution to end this social strife between minorities on the territory of ukraine... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr. president, primum non nocere, first do no harm, is an old medical saying, and i'm a doctor, an emergency physician, so as long as we're dealing with a product that is unverified and raises big question marks in terms of efficacy and food safety, things are beyond any kind of doubt. and it seems hypocritical to me to compare vaccines, medicinal solutions that have been used for decades and have proven their effectiveness in the context of pre-existing epidemics, with something new that's been introduced to the market that nobody knows about, nobody has verified, and that's not preventing any catastrophe at this point. or maybe you tell me, is there an insecticide-related epidemic? under these circumstances, i think we need to be very careful about what we want to do. the ethical criteria, the medical criteria, tell us to look very carefully so that the green deal is not just a word and a green europe is not just history. i ask you to consider this very carefully and to ensure that such solutions are never adopted, because as long as there is a risk to the lives of european citizens, we who are democratically sent here must oppose it. thank you. thank you.
mr president, i have been working at the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital in iasi for 25 years and i have seen that most cancers are diagnosed late, when there is little that can be done. so in my view, there are two barriers to early detection and proper treatment, and i'm not just talking about cancer, i'm talking about any disease that affects a european citizen. the first is education, because we should be learning in school about the knowledge, the skills, the skills, the rules of healthy living, so that we can adopt a healthy lifestyle and have the first signs that can guide us to a diagnosis. but the biggest barrier is the economic barrier, and we're talking about the money we're spending on health, because many times many people don't have access to these innovative techniques, to screening methods, to early diagnosis, much less to treatment. we are talking about money, which is why i told you that i am also dissatisfied with this year's budget, the multiannual budget, allocated to these regional hospitals, for methods of treatment and early diagnosis. maybe we should work here, and not necessarily set up new committees. and last but not least, think about the fact that unity in diversity means the same european standard of quality in health, to be treated the same: in iasi, in brussels, in vienna, in budapest, in berlin. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – with more than 3.7 million new cancer cases and 1.9 million deaths each year, europe accounts for 23.4% of cancer cases and 20.3% of cancer deaths globally. cancer will remain one of the main challenges european citizens will face and it is important for both national and eu policymakers to act towards the implementation of stronger cancer control. we can speak of eu action, but at national level the reality is very different. in some countries, cancer patients do not even get any screening, while in others people die from cancer without even knowing they have the disease. however, this is difficult to achieve when we only spending around 3% of health system resources on prevention. this is not enough! if we want to succeed, we need to increase this amount and spend it effectively. even more, we should not forget those cancer survivors who are left unchecked and not followed up on properly after the end of the acute treatment phase. it is important to develop national plans to ensure that the healthcare system can fully support cancer survivors’ needs. the survivors can be reintegrated into the workforce and be supported to have a proper working environment according to their needs.
mr. president, at this hour, 11:00 p.m., i want to talk about the swine flu. there have been a lot of outbreaks in my area, and i want you to understand that we can't wait for national intervention to solve a problem like this. a swine flu outbreak is not a fire that a firefighter needs to come to, it's a high-risk outbreak for an area much larger than a county or a country. that is why we should work together, the commission with the member states, so that where there is an outbreak, where we are affecting smallholders as well as large farms, we can have very rapid action. thank you. thank you.
mr. president, if i have stayed healthy, i will continue with health, because, to paraphrase a great romanian writer, if there is no love, there is nothing. i say to you today that if health is not, nothing is, so our financial efforts in the future framework of the european union should focus on this. i come from a city, iasi, on the border of the european union, in romania. six million people in moldova need emergency regional hospital, and i came to the european parliament to ask for this, to be properly funded health, because we have reached unthinkable situations where a patient is walking between hospitals or across the skies of europe because he does not have the appropriate medical solution. i ask you today in the european parliament to think about this unity in diversity and to do everything possible so that the european standard of quality in healthcare is also implemented in these countries and that we have regional emergency hospitals and, of course, i will say, first of all in iasi. thank you. thank you.
mr president, the mediterranean has become a graveyard for thousands of people. it is unacceptable that the european union does not take measures to protect people's lives, content to make statistics on the thousands of children, women and men who are swallowed up by the waters of the mediterranean every year. we need to gain knowledge and disrupt the smuggling networks in the countries of origin and in the countries of embarkation of the illegal migrants. we must use the naval means available to the member states of the union to return vessels carrying illegal migrants from the territorial waters of the countries of embarkation. i ask the european commission to draw up and submit to parliament, as a matter of urgency, an action plan and a proposal for legislation on illegal immigration from third countries, which should be adopted and be applicable throughout the union.
madam president, my name is tudor ciuhodaru, i'm from iasi, romania. i think there are two (unheard words) that are in question, especially if we really want to meet the expectations of the citizens. firstly, there is the quantitative part of this budget, and yes, indeed, it must be done in such a way as to cover as many things as are necessary for all european citizens, not to make those who are weaker at the moment pay for the others. but the second problem is how we distribute this budget. the romanians sent me to the european parliament because they want regional hospitals, highways and healthcare, or equal subsidies for agriculture. because you can talk about a lot of things, about development, about organic farming, about what it means to invest in research, but if we don't address the basic needs of every citizen, those things can't be done. i want you to negotiate with the european parliament, because remember, we are the ones that the citizens of europe have sent to parliament, and frankly, i will vote for a budget that is responsive to those at home and what all european citizens want. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – the new multiannual financial framework 2021-2017 should give an answer to the big challenges ahead of us in europe. it puts facts and numbers on the vision and priorities the eu wants to deliver and achieve. when people see the numbers, they realise what is deliverable and achievable, and what’s not. i welcome the fact that the commission is proposing significant increases in funding for research, development and innovation. these are indeed positive investments for the future. but i deeply regret the drastic cuts to the common agriculture policy (-15%) and cohesion policy (-10%). for the most recent members of the eu that haven’t yet reached the pace of the others, funding to the agriculture sector is and will be an essential element in my final assessment of the mff. if we want to have an ambitious, green, sustainable pac and if we want our farmers to survive further competition coming with the mercosur deal, for example, we need to support this core backbone of our societies. if we fail to do so, we might face the big risk of euroscepticism arising in rural areas of europe, which might feel abandoned by the institutions they look up to today.
madam president, in my previous reply i gave my opinion on genetically modified organisms, on food. in my opinion, the rules we have in the european area are working, they are strict, they are scientifically based. that is why i voted against this soya matter. what i think is worth considering is the question of how these products are grown in certain third countries, for example in brazil, where the consumption and hunger for these products in the european area is to some extent forcing farmers there to burn down the forest, and we then, of course, criticize this in the european area. i would personally like to support a policy that keeps both the issue of genetically modified food within reasonable limits and, of course, the sustainability of forestry and agriculture worldwide. so we should proceed with great caution in this matter.
madam president, the number of disinformation cases attributed to russian hackers and identified by east stratcom has practically doubled this year from 2018, reaching 1,000. the kremlin's disinformation factory is hitting the mark. this month, for example, journalists in romania discovered that a national news outlet had no less than five cloned facebook pages with a lot of russian likes. commissioner king himself warned last month that the number of fake facebook accounts had reached 20 million. moscow spends about a billion euros a year on disinformation and propaganda. we have to do much more. the future high representative must now take up as a priority the transformation of east stratcom into a permanent and properly funded structure, and the future commission must have a very clear agenda for combating disinformation, but also for educating the european public.
madam president, i voted against this resolution. we just need to strengthen the democratic processes, but not by the means proposed. for example, to upgrade the eu east stratcom task force to a permanent structure entails significantly higher financing. in the very same resolution we find the justification – the doubled number of disinformation cases in 2019 when compared with the previous year. but the reason for that phenomenon is the doubling of the stratcomm budget for this year, not vice versa. demand creates supply. as a subscriber of stratcomm mailing, i see hundreds of fake disclosures. for example, the story on russian tv telling us that it is immoral to dissect an animal in front of children was mentioned as a case of disinformation. but it was a real case in a danish zoo. in such a way, any criticism can be qualified as disinformation. is this what we will spend millions of euros on?
i have supported the motion for a resolution on foreign interference in elections and disinformation in national and european democratic processes. in recent years, we have certainly seen many such cases of interference both in the european union and in the united states. however, i cannot help mentioning that there are also cases where the intervention is not external to the union. i'm talking about these circles of ngos, funded by no clear source, trying to change the will of nations, of countries that want to decide their own internal political processes. we have seen such trials in hungary, in poland, in bulgaria even. we're seeing groups of ngos meddling in the elections in bulgaria right now. leftists, greens are uniting to protect organizations like the helsinki committee, which openly defend criminals and proven convicted murderers. and this is happening right now and these organizations are inadmissible interfering in the electoral process and trying to influence the will of the bulgarian citizens, which i do not allow and object to.
madam president, i have unambiguously supported this motion for a resolution, even though some of the measures envisaged in this resolution are indeed controversial. in my view, what is not in dispute is the fact that there are attempts by third countries, third powers, to influence elections at national or transnational, european level. i think this is a fact. i would like to acknowledge the work of the finnish journalist jessikka aro, who documented the existence of a troll farm in st. petersburg. so if anyone doubts that, as i've said here, i think the evidence is very clear and it's the facts. look at the way the united states is very vigorously investigating these attacks on its free elections. it's a very serious investigation, and i think the european space deserves a very serious investigation. i support this to the fullest extent, and we should of course support both public and commercial media, share information and, of course, expose these networks. this is very important.
madam president, i was stunned – as i’m sure many of you here were – to learn about the existence of the fake website of the european parliament vulgarly named ‘ep today’. according to the eu’s east stratcom task force which exposed the website, the majority of its content is republished from the kremlin-based propaganda channel russia today, and this is clear evidence and a fact for those who still do not see and miss the propaganda all around. we need to increase our citizens’ resilience and their capacity to distinguish fact from fake. in order to achieve this, we must boost our support to such actors as the team of the eu’s east stratcom task force, which tirelessly work to expose foreign interference and disinformation. moreover, we must improve civic education and media literacy programmes and enable civil society organisations. with these resolutions we rightly call for greater national and european attention, accompanied by the increased financial support for the activities i just mentioned. we also task the next high representative of the union to make the fight against disinformation a central foreign policy objective.
(start of speech off mic) ... this resolution because we need to send this strong signal to the council ahead of next week’s discussion, and yet i was extremely surprised to see that, although it was supported by the four main political groups of this house, there is not a single word in the resolution about the new financial instrument for supporting civil society, the rights and values instrument, and there’s not a single word in it about civil society. traditionally speaking, this house – parliament –has always been a supporter of civil society. they need a proper instrument, finally, to be able to follow their agenda. it is not acceptable for us not to mention and not to ask for more action in this area as a push ahead of next week’s discussion when the space for civil society is shrinking in countries like hungary, poland or bulgaria, and even in my country, romania.
mr president, i didn't think we could come to think of such an initiative in this century. i'm an emergency physician, and i've always argued that health education is the best way to keep us from getting sick. and if we're talking about sexually transmitted diseases, if we're talking about underage mothers -- a real european phenomenon -- i think the solution is education. an old romanian proverb says that if education is not, health is not. i hope that, for once, what's important to our lives -- that is, education, the things that can make a difference in the world, what's good for our children -- is not left out there somewhere. let us not talk about pomp and hypocrisy, but let us come up with concrete measures. i think any such initiative that condemns, practically, and takes away our right to health should be put aside, and i hope that every country will think differently at the european level, because unity in diversity means also access to education of any kind.
mr president, i find that this european solidarity fund is like a bandage that has been slowly applied to a serious wound. i ask the european commission to find a solution so that this solidarity fund becomes what it should be: an emergency treatment for those people who need emergency assistance at european level, because yes, indeed, these things happen and, unfortunately, we see that we cannot live under a glass bell that protects us all the time. but we can prevent such things. i remind you that the cutting of forests in europe has led to real dramas and that i have submitted to the parliament of romania the ciuhodaru law which provides for the prohibition of cutting of forests and their use for export, and only to have the possibility of being in the form of processed wood. on the other hand, there are human casualties, and the european commission must play a major role in this. that european civil protection mechanism, that european emcdda, should be operational because in such a collective accident situation, in an emergency situation, we should have the resources to treat our european citizens where they are needed, when they are needed, and to call for solidarity, which is extremely important. thirdly, also in the idea of prevention, think about this: we get into bad situations because we didn't prevent and yes, these things could be prevented if the agricultural subsidy, (the president interrupted the speaker)... remember, the agricultural subsidy would be the same at european level, including for farmers in romania.
mr. president, i have to go. in romania, after the adoption of the motion of no confidence and the dismissal of the left-wing government coalition, the best chance is for a transitional government formed by the right. the new government will be tasked with pursuing a strict budgetary policy until the parliamentary elections, ensuring the functioning of local governments, redirecting available eu funds, launching major investments and preparing for fair elections. the budget for next year cannot be delayed. the commission considers that the restructuring plan is in line with the principles of sound financial management and sound public finances. in a rational, beneficial for the whole country governance, the representative of the romanian hungarians, the rmdsz, will be a partner. after next year's parliamentary elections, the top issues of paramount importance, education, environmental protection, health, healthy lifestyles, must be addressed. we need to build trust between the romanian majority and the hungarian minority, and start a dialogue on interethnic relations. we need to work on a project of a country that is viable and developing for all. thank you, sir.
mr president, last week the british court ruled against emma desouza’s good friday agreement right to irish citizenship. emma and her husband, jake, were dragged through the british court by the british government, which failed to legislate on irish citizenship 21 years after the good friday agreement. britain is a country which you cannot trust, a country that never keeps its word, perfidious albion. so, until meps see brexit legislation enacted, we must not give our consent to the withdrawal agreement because the british establishment will be working to undercut it piece by piece. last week, it wasn’t just emma who lost her case. we all lost. as an irish and eu citizen, emma has the right to love and to sponsor her husband, jake, and she has the right to defend irish citizenship. britain needs to upgrade its archaic 1981 citizenship legislation to fulfil its good friday agreement obligations. otherwise, british citizens could lose their british citizenship in a united ireland just as our irish citizenship is denied to us now, and we don’t want to see that happen.
mr president, in 2015 greece took on the brunt of the migration problem. the 2016 eu-turkey statement worked, but for several months now, hundreds of refugees and migrants have been arriving daily on the islands of the northeastern aegean, and the situation is explosive. a huge rally was held tonight in samos by desperate citizens. president erdoğan is also extorting new uncontrolled flows. in this very difficult situation, greece is unable to manage the problem on its own, despite the immigration policy of the new government which respects international law and human rights. we cannot go on like this, colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the countries which have closed their borders must urgently take in their share of refugees. the solution and the management of the matter must be immediate, proportionate, solidarity-based, but above all fair.
mr president, in 2016, after the so-called coup, i would call it a fake coup in turkey, i stressed here, with anxiety, the following: every day that passes with erdogan in power, the human cost that will be paid inside and outside turkey to rid us of this beast accumulates. since then, many terrible things have happened in turkey and now we are faced with a new crime against the kurds. it's not just a matter of betraying our allies against the scourge of the islamic state, it's not just a matter of security or credibility. the problem is that we are faced with the neo-ottoman expansionist policy that erdogan is committing with crimes against humanity. we have a criminal who is proclaiming a national cleansing and illegal population movement, just as turkey imposed in 1974 on cyprus, and the crime continues. it is time to bring this criminal before the international criminal court in the hague.
mr president, i have heard the european union described in britain as an empire, a malevolent force out to control and constraint. after 15 years in this parliament, i know that the european union has many faults, but a malevolent empire it is not. it is a partnership that allows governments to address issues that no one country can tackle alone. it is a champion of freedom and democracy. it is proof, in a world where superpowers can impose their will on small nations, that we are better together. in a continent that has seen centuries of conflict, it embodies the conviction that this must never happen again. a brexit deal has been agreed between the european council and boris johnson. but my voters don’t want this deal. they don’t want any deal. they want to remain european citizens and for britain to be a leader in europe, not a leaver. we should do all we can to resist brexit. but if we win or if we lose, whatever, we call upon our colleagues here to build upon the strength of this european union and live up to its aspirations to be a force for good in the world.
mr president, this morning in riga, in front of the lithuanian embassy, we demonstrated our solidarity with the political prisoner algirdas paleckis, one of the most outstanding anti—fascist activists in lithuania and a former member of parliament, who has been in prison for one year. algirdas is being persecuted for his opinion dissenting from the official one on some events in the modern history of lithuania, namely in january 1991. political prisoners in the european union include: in the baltic sea, algirdas paleckis, as well as a number of other lithuanian and latvian people; in the mediterranean, my former colleagues, meps oriol junqueras and raul romeva, as well as a number of other catalan people. political prisoners in the european union – in the european union, which is teaching the whole world how to respect human rights. liberating algirdas, oriol, raul and all the other political prisoners would be a good start for the european union towards respect for political freedoms.
mr. president, liviu pop, a forest ranger from romania, was killed the other day while defending the forest from timber thieves. in recent years, five other foresters have died: he was the first to be arrested in the country. the european commission released a report this year saying that romania is making progress in the fight against illegal logging. on paper, the situation seems under control, of course, but the reality is quite different. a recorder report reveals how a pyramid scheme of politicians, regulators, and private individuals makes 33 percent of romania's tree felling illegal. the question is therefore: what is the european commission missing? romania's forests are protected in the acts, but they are defended with blood, the blood of some people, in practice. as for those who are no longer with us, i want to tell their families, from this tribune, that they are the heroes of a bitter struggle between money and our right to nature and life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will be addressing the issue of the turkish army's invasion of syrian territory in a special item. but i wanted to take this moment to remind you that this year marks exactly 70 years since we commemorated the signing of the washington treaty and the end of the transatlantic relationship. this partnership has always meant a great deal of security and alliance between europe and the us. and what we're seeing today is very worrying to me. the unpredictability of the administration, and specifically president trump, meant that the kurds on the syrian side were left virtually unprotected, and the european union was not informed of this. it's clear that the new trump administration doesn't care much about good relations with europe. i think that's very short-sighted. strengthening euro-atlantic relations is in the interests of both partners.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 17 and 18 october 2019 (2019/2721 ((rsp)). before we start the debate, i would like to inform you that, in order to apply for the 'catch-the-eye' and 'blue card' procedure, it is possible to use both the 'standard registration' and the new system which allows members to register electronically. i therefore urge you to carry your ballot paper with you at all times. if you want to register for the 'catch-the-eye', i urge you to do so now, without waiting for the end of the debate.
president of the european council. – mr president, allow me to present my last report from the european council. let us focus on three matters. firstly, the european council condemned turkey’s unilateral military action in north east syria. no one is fooled by the so‑called ceasefire. turkey needs to end its military action permanently, withdraw its forces and respect international humanitarian law. any other course means unacceptable human suffering, a victory for daesh and a serious threat to european security. the european council also reconfirmed its full solidarity with cyprus, faced with turkey’s illegal drillings off its coast. when it comes to brexit, the european council endorsed the deal reached by our negotiator and prime minister johnson’s government. as you know, it is based on the deal that we agreed with the previous government. the changes concern the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, formerly known as the backstop. prime minister johnson’s acceptance to have customs checks at the points of entry into northern ireland will allow us to avoid border checks between ireland and northern ireland, and will ensure the integrity of the single market. the revised deal was possible and acceptable to the eu because: firstly, it had the support of ireland; secondly, it had the support of the commission, ensuring that all our negotiating objectives were met; and, thirdly, because it avoids a chaotic no-deal brexit. on the council side, we have just finalised the necessary steps for the eu’s approval, and the legal texts are now with you. the european parliament has a role to play, and it is an important one. the situation is quite complex following events over the weekend in the uk and the british request for an extension of the article 50 process. i am consulting the leaders on how to react, and will decide in the coming days. it is obvious that the result of these consultations will very much depend on what the british parliament decides, or doesn’t decide. we should be ready for every scenario. but one thing must be clear: as i said to prime minister johnson on saturday, a no-deal brexit will never be our decision. (applause) finally, the leaders held a difficult debate on enlargement. following the clear recommendation by the commission, an overwhelming majority of member states wanted to open accession talks with north macedonia and albania. despite this, the required unanimity was not possible last week. in my opinion, this was a mistake, as i have said to the leaders ... (applause)and i was a bit more direct then. now i can only hope that the leaders draw the right conclusions when they discuss the accession process before the zagreb summit in may 2020. together with commission president-elect von der leyen, the leaders also discussed the future of the european union in terms of its strategic agenda, the future eu budget and the incoming commission’s priorities. we are determined that the eu leads the way in fighting the climate crisis. a socially just transition to a green economy is not only a necessity but also an opportunity to improve our environment, while creating jobs. as this is my last appearance here with jean-claude juncker, i would like to express my greatest appreciation of him and his work. these were a difficult five years for the union, but we have always cooperated in good faith. our respective roles and different perspectives sometimes meant political disagreements. but i can say without hesitation that jean-claude has always been devoted to europe and served europe well. and i am honoured to call you my friend, jean-claude. thank you. (applause)i also want to thank the european parliament for five years of good cooperation. that does not mean that we have always agreed. quite the contrary. but i have always respected you, honourable members, knowing that we share the same goal: to protect our union and our people. thank you very much. (applause)
president of the commission. – mr president, it was an emotional moment for me last week when i attended my last european council together with my good friend donald tusk. we are today debating the 147th european council of my political career – the147th or 148th, i don’t know exactly. today is the 105th time that i have addressed you in this plenary, the beating heart of european democracy. in many of these 105 debates, i have had to discuss the uk’s departure from the european union with you. in truth, it has pained me to spend so much of this term of office dealing with brexit, when i have been thinking of nothing else than how this union could do better for its citizens. a waste of time and a waste of energy! the commission has worked tirelessly to negotiate and renegotiate an agreement with the united kingdom to respect the uk’s decision to leave the european union. we now have a new agreement, which again creates the legal certainty for an orderly withdrawal of the uk from the european union. it took a huge amount of work to arrive at this point. i listened to prime minister johnson in the same way as i listened to prime minister may. our negotiators, mainly michel barnier, have once again worked around the clock and once again they have shown creativity and determination. the agreement we have reached with the united kingdom government addresses this parliament’s demands – all parliament’s demands. i will always regret the united kingdom’s decision to leave the union, but at least we can look ourselves in the eye and say that we have done all in our power to make sure that this departure is orderly. in this same spirit, we have done everything in our power to prepare the european union for all eventualities, irrespective of what is happening on the other side of the channel. we need now to watch events in westminster very closely, but it’s not possible – not imaginable – that this parliament would ratify the agreement before westminster has ratified it. first london, then brussels and strasbourg. (applause) wir haben uns, herr präsident, anlässlich des europäischen rates auch ausführlich mit dem finanziellen rahmen für die nächste siebenjahresperiode beschäftigt. ich möchte hier noch einmal zu protokoll geben, dass ich der auffassung bin, dass die zeit abläuft, die gebraucht werden wird, um zu einer einigung im rat und später anderswo zu kommen. wenn wir weiter zeit verlieren, werden wir in den ersten zwei jahren des finanziellen rahmens in finanzielle engpässe kommen. wichtig ist aber, dass die mitgliedstaaten und andere akteure wissen, welcher finanzrahmen für die nächste siebenjahresperiode gilt. das brauchen junge erasmus-studenten, das brauchen forscher, das brauchen viele andere, und wir haben eigentlich nicht das recht, diese für das gelingen des europäischen projekts wichtigen partner vor den kopf zu stoßen, nur weil wir unfähig sind, uns zu einigen. aber ich möchte ganz klar sagen: das von der kommission vorgeschlagene haushaltsvolumen ist ein minimum – ein minimum! die vorschläge, die jetzt auf dem tisch liegen – auch die jüngsten vorschläge des finnischen ratsvorsitzes –, sind nicht akzeptabel! man kann europa und seine zukunft nicht mit einem prozent des bruttosozialprodukts gestalten. dies wird nicht möglich sein. (beifall)et puis, monsieur le président, nous avons parlé de l’élargissement. je suis très déçu de la décision ou de la non-décision du conseil européen. la macédoine du nord et l’albanie étaient en droit d’attendre qu’on ouvre les négociations avec ces pays qui ont fait de grands efforts. c’est une lourde erreur de ne pas avoir ouvert les négociations avec ces deux pays. c’est une lourde erreur parce qu’elle frappe deux pays au cœur. c’est une lourde erreur parce que, si l’union européenne donne l’impression de faire des promesses et de ne pas les respecter, personne ne nous respectera à travers le monde.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking donald tusk for his five years of work for the common european home. it has held the difficult european council together, it has contributed to progress being made at this difficult level too. you said we all stand for the same idea. i think it is fair to say that it is easier to defend this common idea here in this house than in your body, the european council. so, thank you for your work, and on behalf of the whole epp group. the last european council, unfortunately, did not take the decisions we wanted on turkey. we are dealing with an illegal invasion of syria. the kurds were our partners in the fight against islamist terror. over 11,000 kurds were killed in this battle. there are 12,000 isis fighters in the camps there, and we don't know if they're going to be released or not. it is therefore a pity that the european council has not been able to push through with further measures. the list of events in turkey is long. we have the illegal drilling in cyprus, we have the restriction of press freedom, the threats of refugees and now the invasion of syria, which is against international law. the question is therefore: where is the clear signal from europe? where is the signal that we should condemn this? we are talking about the need to protect the environment and the environment is a matter of concern to us. there are plenty of possibilities. we in the epp believe that as long as turkey continues to display this aggressive behaviour, we must also talk about the consequences, including the economic consequences. it is not possible for turkey to benefit permanently from the customs union and economic access to the european single market and at the same time behave aggressively. the second thing that moves us is, of course, the mff and the financial questions. the finnish proposal is simply a provocation to the european parliament. jean-claude juncker has said that this is not enough to answer the questions of the future. and i would like to make it clear that the european parliament has a role to play in the mff in the end. the council should not risk the proposals for the future ultimately failing in the european parliament. that is why i am campaigning for the european union to be properly equipped. new tasks also mean new funds to be made available. the 2020 budget, which will be tabled in a few days, is already a prelude to this. we cannot cut back on the future, on research, on youth, on erasmus. we in the epp group will not stand for this. and then, ladies and gentlemen, we have the historic mistake of last week's council: the prospect of accession for north macedonia and albania is being denied. we are faced with the question of whether we are exporting stability to the balkans or whether we are importing instability from the balkans to europe. that is the question we are faced with. the european council last week therefore failed seriously on this historic issue. we have asked a lot of the countries: north macedonia even had to change the name of the country to get a prospect of accession. they have tried, they have struggled, and now the door is being slammed shut. it is a serious loss of credibility that we are experiencing and that the heads of state and government are responsible for. (applause from the centre) i'm very much in favor of looking at structures. the debate is now whether we will manage enlargement processes differently in the future. that's what you hear from paris. i'm all for that. but have they said north macedonia before, have they said albania before? no, they didn't. and that's why we can't mix up topics that weren't directly related. i would like to comment on one aspect of party politics. the epp representatives in the european council have all unanimously supported the accession prospects of north macedonia and albania. it was mainly two renew representatives, emmanuel macron and mark rutte, who massively opposed the two countries. i am campaigning for us to work together as parties to give these countries a perspective. a last word on brexit for this week. we can simply say: let's wait and let's have a cup of coffee for what will happen in the next hours in london a coffee, yes, a tea, you're right. sorry about this. it was a more european perspective. it is positive that we have a compromise - that michel and the negotiator in london, and finally johnson and jean-claude juncker, have found a compromise: no hard border, but on the other hand, no backstop. so i think for both sides it's a good compromise. now the procedure is in our hands. the house of commons, the upper house (the lords) will decide, and then we have finally to see the outcome whether the amendments will be accepted or not. so we are still in the hands of london. we are waiting for london, and for us as the european parliament, i would say we have the same right to do a proper assessment about the text which is on our table. there's no need to rush. there's no need to hurry up. we have the same rights to discuss it at the level of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), and then finally here in the plenary, after the discussions at group level. but that's why i don't see any chance that this week we'll have any kind of decision. so the european parliament is the last (let me say) institution who has to make the final assessment, and that is not just a technical assessment we do a political assessment on the treaty. but the last few days have given us the opportunity that we have finally managed a good development on brexit in this negative case of the brexit, and a good chance that we keep the friendship between europe and great britain, to look for a good development also in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
i would also like to take this opportunity to convey a message of appreciation on behalf of my group. it is true that there have been many moments of disagreement between the council and this european parliament, but it is also important to recognize the effort that you have made on many occasions, at a personal level, to ensure that there are common objectives to work towards. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european council is of particular relevance at the moment in which we find ourselves: on the one hand, pending brexit and, on the other, the beginning of the legislature, which will be crucial and for which we do not yet have a budget. brexit is being a difficult and painful process for everyone. the social democrats have always wanted the united kingdom to remain in the union, and in this process every step is important. so was the step taken by the uk parliament on saturday, adopting an amendment to avoid the precipice of a no-deal brexit. it is now up to the house of commons to continue the procedure and to take a decision on the agreement. only then, as soon as we know what the decision of that parliament is, will this 'european parliament' assume its responsibility and act accordingly. i would like to thank michel barnier for his work and efforts and for the unity shown by the twenty-seven, because we know that unity makes strength. the same determination and consistency that the council has shown during the brexit negotiations should be shown now in setting the course we need in the european union for the next five years. if we want to be credible, it's time to move from words to action. in the last elections, citizens asked us for a new europe that is greener, more firm in defending the rule of law, more committed to social rights and equality, and more transparent in its decision-making. we therefore expect the european council to show more leadership and commitment to the challenges that are facing us right now. in spring, the european commission committed to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. unfortunately, this proposal does not yet have the unanimous support of the heads of government, and yet the social democrats have managed to make the so-called 'new green deal' a top priority for the future commission. but it will only succeed if we put all the necessary resources into it. we will not accept that workers, small businesses or families pay the bill for the ecological transition. we must agree on an investment plan that will finance this transition fairly, and that can only be achieved with an ambitious financial framework. the european parliament set its budget targets in november 2018, and we have been waiting for the council since then. our position remains firm: we will only support a budget with new own resources reflecting the union's priorities and thus be able to promote new instruments without reducing the funding of policies which are fundamental to the european union: agriculture, cohesion, fisheries... we must ensure sufficient resources to address new challenges such as migration, external action and defence, and we must also respond to the economic hardship faced by many citizens. we have managed to include as priorities for the next commission a european unemployment insurance, measures to combat child poverty and the youth guarantee. in short, we will only support an ambitious budget for europe to grow. that is the aim: to make europe grow. for that reason, we will not accept anything below 1.3% of gross national income. without adequate funding, which european government will take responsibility when the commission is unable to implement its programme? the european union also loses credibility when it asks its neighbours for reforms and then leaves them waiting at the door once they have complied. we will therefore continue to support the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. of course there is still a lot to be done and the negotiations are a long way off, but their completion must be a lifeline for the european union. completing the accession of the western balkans not only contributes to the stability of the region but also ensures the security of the union as a whole. and we also expect more ambition in the international sphere. we support the council's condemnation of turkey for its military intervention, although we regret the lack of concrete measures. and at this point i do not want to miss the opportunity to convey a message of solidarity and support to cyprus: we will not allow turkey to continue its illegal drilling in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and we ask that its sovereignty be respected. fellas, there's a lot of work to be done. ambition is necessary and the commitment to work shared by all is fundamental. this european parliament will be up to the task. i hope that the council is also aware of the great responsibility it has in its hands at this time.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, first of all, i will address donald: you are nearing the end of your mandate, i have had the opportunity to work with you, on the commission side, on the council side and now on the parliament side. i want to tell you that i have always appreciated your candor, your sense of europe and your contribution to european unity, as the first president of the council from eastern europe. so, i thank you for what you've done for europe. as regards the council's conclusions on brexit, we are now beginning to get used to it: we think we have seen the end of the tunnel and then, finally, systematically, our british friends show a lot of imagination to prolong and delay a final decision. the british press has always criticized our european institutions for being too creative. now we see that they are capable of doing the same. but it's better if it's for a good cause. in any case, we in parliament are glad that we now have an agreement. i would like to thank michel barnier and his team once again for their work. it was essential for us that the uk's exit should be with an agreement. we are now waiting for the british parliament to do its job to the end and, very clearly, we cannot take a decision in the european parliament until we have a final decision, a final ratification of this agreement in the british parliament. we will take our responsibilities, but as manfred said, it is not the european parliament that should be rushed into doing its job. it may not be possible this week. as regards the other points raised in the council, i shall dwell on two points, namely the budget and the enlargement process. as far as the budget is concerned, our group took part in drafting the resolution of parliament which clearly calls for the ambition for europe to be reflected in the budget. parliament will assume its responsibility not only to ask for a strong budget but also to show that europe is not built with negotiations of figures alone but also with ambition. the budget cannot be limited to sharing the financial contributions of the member states. if we have a genuine european ambition, we must now work seriously on own resources and show that europe can build a truly european budget. as regards the question of enlargement, i can tell you that as a romanian citizen, and therefore from a country which has benefited so much from this enlargement process, i am deeply convinced that enlargement policy must remain at the heart of european policy. we cannot imagine a strong europe without remaining open to our neighbours, and especially to those who still believe in europe, perhaps even stronger than some countries within the european union. so the doors of the european union must remain open and europe must always remain an extraordinary engine of democratic reform. we cannot ask these countries to carry out reforms without giving them a clear ambition and a clear idea of the european perspective. i also fully understand the concerns and the desire to deepen the european project in its current scope, to reform the european institutions, and that is why we strongly support the conference on the future of europe, but this must not affect europe's ambition to continue the enlargement process. so our doors must be kept wide open.
dear president, thank you very much, mr. tusk, for your voice of reason, which you have represented for the past five years. i thank mr juncker for his pro-european stance and mr barnier for his resolute work on brexit. i want to speak about a subject that has, in my opinion, deeply affected us. this is because the council has rejected accession negotiations for north macedonia and for albania. we come from a region where we know that peace is not just something that is self-evident, we come from a region where these countries have a lot to do in the area of the rule of law, in the area of reforms within the countries, and such signals, such irresponsibility as the council has shown, is very frightening, and therefore those of us who go to this part of europe with the aim of bringing it closer to the european union are in big trouble. i am very grateful to mr hahn for the great work he has done in the balkans, but i am afraid that after such decisions the balance in the balkans will be shifted in the other direction and the balkans will be decided by others rather than the european union.
madam president, president tusk, president juncker, i join in the acknowledgement, if only because under your presidency the european union has been in the worst crisis in its history, of which brexit is the most emblematic episode and the most symbolic breakthrough. the only good news, mr barnier, is that the european union's negotiating unity and reciprocity, which is never stressed enough, have been maintained. that is, the guarantee that the european union will treat british people in the european union the way the united kingdom treats european citizens on its territory. but the hourglass has become a time bomb. the successive postponements of the final decision leave us in the dark about a no-deal brexit and its economic, social and, above all, political effects. there is a political battle against reactionary nationalism which is based on bullying, misinformation and intoxication, which claims that local and regional identities are incompatible with state identities and that national identities are incompatible with european ones. europe has to fight that battle, but that requires resources, and with a budget of 1% of gdp it will not succeed. there is something worse than the contradiction between what is said and what is done and that is not being willing to put the necessary energy and resources so that there is no contradiction between what is promised and what is fulfilled.
chief negotiator. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, mr president, and with that of president juncker, i would like to say a word in response to all those many who have spoken on this difficult brexit issue, and to thank in particular president weber for their confidence but also mrs garcía pérez, dacian ciolos, philippe lamberts and martin schwanirde for their support and confidence throughout the last months and years. as president tusk and president juncker have said, we have great respect for your parliament. this parliament must be respected at this critical and important moment in the brexit process. we have always respected it and it is your parliament that will have the last word. it is therefore only right that the british parliament should now take up its responsibilities and be the first to commit itself on the basis of the agreement we negotiated with the british government and not against it or without it to achieve what we all want, if it is brexit, an orderly withdrawal. i repeat and i repeat that if the united kingdom wants an orderly withdrawal which is much better than an unorderly withdrawal, then this agreement is the only one possible. we think it is legitimate for your parliament, when it gives its consent, to know unambiguously what the united kingdom wants, what it wishes, what it decides for its own future. we are at a critical and important stage in this long process. i would like to take this opportunity to thank president donald tusk and his team, president juncker, all the commissioners, president verhofstadt and the members of the brexit group for their confidence. the task that jean-claude juncker gave me at the very beginning was to work on a treaty for an orderly withdrawal, and nothing else. that's what we've accomplished. but this difficult, complex task - and i was not surprised by its complexity - remains a task for a negotiation that is negative. no one, not even mr farage, has been able to demonstrate to me or provide me with any evidence of the added value of brexit. we therefore conducted this negative negotiation very seriously in order to respect the british vote, even though we regretted it. throughout these three years, we have worked objectively, persistently, patiently, to find workable, legally valid solutions to each of the problems that brexit has posed for many people everywhere. we have worked with respect for our british partners because, ladies and gentlemen, we definitely have respect and even admiration for the united kingdom. we have also worked without being influenced by the turbulence and internal political discussions in the uk. i have always said that we are working without emotion, without passion on this issue, on the facts, the legal bases and the problems created by brexit to find solutions. we have finally worked to put this negotiation in perspective. brexit is not the end of the story. it's not a destination. we have therefore put this negotiation in perspective, first of all by taking account of the peace in ireland. every day, every day, we have been asked to do everything we can to preserve the fragile peace on the island of ireland. we also put into perspective what we were doing in relation to our foundation, our foundation, the internal market, which is much more than a free trade area, it is an area of economic and social coexistence which must be consolidated and strengthened. we have put this negotiation in perspective, taking into account what has always been the priority of the european parliament and our priority, the security of citizens' rights. four and a half million people, including one and a half million british citizens living here and at least three and a half million european citizens living and working in the united kingdom. mr verhofstadt, mrs hübner, mrs fritzson and many others, i have heard your concern. i would remind you that if this agreement is voted by the british parliament and by you, the four and a half million people i am talking about will see their rights secured in a lasting way for themselves and their families. this is the best guarantee for citizens. the united kingdom has committed itself to implementing this agreement in a practical way and we need to verify that this will be the case. that is why the concerns you express are important and the pressure must be maintained with the member states to ensure that the commitments made by the united kingdom are respected. secondly, we have always put this negotiation in perspective since brexit is not the end of the story of what we have to rebuild with the uk. here we are recounting 44 years of integration and cooperation. the british are going to leave over 600 international agreements. we're not stopping here. the united kingdom remains where it is, our friend, our ally, our partner and so we have to rebuild. mr farage is sadly no longer here, but i was surprised by what he said earlier, when he explained that this agreement opened the way to three more years of negotiations. but of course we'll have to negotiate! beyond brexit and separation or divorce, it will take a year, two years, three years, maybe more, in some areas, to renegotiate everything that has been torn apart by the will of those who supported brexit. we must rebuild a balanced trade agreement with the so-called rules of the game to avoid the risks of fiscal, social, environmental or consumer dumping. we will have to rebuild a relationship in terms of academic cooperation, erasmus, research, police and judicial cooperation, security, defence, foreign policy - all those areas where we need to work with the uk on a lasting basis in a new context and in a new political framework. this is what we are facing and what the european commission, as president juncker and the president-elect, mrs von der leyen, wanted, is preparing for by organising its own services. i would like to conclude by quoting a statement made earlier by mr van orden, who said: 'there are lessons to be learned from brexit'. of course, we are talking about the consequences of brexit. there are countless, often underestimated, problems, particularly in the united kingdom, and we are facing them. but there are lessons from brexit. why did 52% of the british vote against europe? as a politician, i have always recommended that we take some time to think about this issue because it concerns us in the 27 countries of the european union. in these lessons, there is a lesson that mr. farage and his friends have sometimes forgotten. it's about telling the truth to the citizens before they vote. it is our responsibility to tell the truth to the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank but behind the brexit vote, there was also a social anger that was expressed, the feeling sometimes that europe was not protecting enough, the rejection of this deindustrialization, the need for protection and reforms. this is the positive agenda, which is much more important than brexit. what i mean, because i can attest to it, is that it is exactly the wish and commitment of mrs von der leyen and her new team to focus on this new positive agenda now. but i also want to say - for having had the privilege and honour of being at his side for these three years and of course remaining his friend for the long term - that this is the commitment of president juncker and his team of commissioners. today, as i say goodbye, i must say that it was and remains a great privilege to have been at his side, and i want to thank him for his trust. i know that he and his team have started to focus on what is most important, beyond brexit, namely the commitment to a positive agenda for europe and for european citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the european council. – mr president, thank you for all your warm words about me. it was worth waiting five years for such a moment! i would also like to thank the house for its responsible position on brexit and the extension. through this, you have shown common sense and a sense of dignity. after what i have heard today in this chamber, i have no doubt that we should treat the british request for an extension in all seriousness. thank you. goodbye. (applause)
i would like to thank you, mr president, and i join my colleagues in thanking you for your continued availability to parliament for the debates we have had over the years. the debate is closed. we're gonna stop for a very short time and then we're gonna go back to the drawing board. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the second agreement approved by the european council for the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu corresponds in substance to the agreement reached in 2018, with amendments to aspects related to customs controls, taxation and movement and control of goods, relating to northern ireland. in a context of still uncertain outcome, we reaffirm four central premises of our analysis and positioning. more than three years have passed since the referendum which dictated the sovereign decision of the british people to leave the eu, and it has yet to be implemented. the fundamental question is respect for the will of the british people. the uk's withdrawal from the eu should not be used to call into question labour and social rights, either in the uk or in eu member states, in the name of alleged future adjustments or impacts. the rights of migrant workers, which are not ensured by the mere application of the eu acquis (as demonstrated by the agreement reached with david cameron in 2016), must be strongly defended and ensured, including through negotiations on a bilateral plan of relations between states. measures should be taken to develop a framework of mutually beneficial bilateral relations with the united kingdom, respecting the sovereignty of states and the rights of peoples.
in writing. here we are at a final report from the council and the commission. i have to say that although i have often been critical of the two leaders, mr tusk and mr juncker, looking at the situation in perspective, i have to thank them. and i thank them for the frankness of their speech today: mr tusk speaks of the mistake in the council: two states who, through their leaders - france and the netherlands - blocked the decision to enlarge. two countries, france and the netherlands, who pose as pro-european, but are damaging the future of europe by blocking the council. mr juncker told us that the eu makes promises it does not keep. exactly what i've been saying for five years in parliament. but what awaits us? i'm afraid we're reaching the sad conclusion that changing bosses isn't always a joy. we do not yet have a european commission, we do not yet have the final shape of the budget and the mff and we are faced with the arrogance of mr macron and mr rutte. president-elect ursula von der leyen is extending the team's training without any explanation! what can be the future of the eu? it is a natural question after the council's decisions to block the accession of north macedonia and albania and after the unjustified delay in finalising the team of the new european commission.
in writing. the last european council discussed turkey, brexit, eu enlargement and the future of the eu. condemning erdogan and blocking the sale of arms is not enough, we need stronger and more concrete actions: it is time to stop the flow of billions that we have been pouring into turkey for years. as regards the brexit agreement, we must not forget that the eu has shown its usual aversion to democracy in the course of the long and complex negotiations. on enlargement to other western balkan countries, i think that the postponement of the decision on the entry of albania and north macedonia is good news, as the cultural and economic differences between the two countries would make integration difficult. finally, there are concerns about the future of the eu, with proposals to raise taxes for the umpteenth time in the name of fighting the climate crisis. the possible cut in cap funds will also have the effect of harming our farmers, who are already suffering from the crisis. we recall that italy is one of the main net contributors to the eu budget and that our citizens do not have to bear any additional taxes and sacrifices.
in writing. it is in times of turbulence, with many fronts of debate and difficult decision-making, that leadership is asserted and significant qualitative leaps can be made in the european project. the european institutions have done a good job with the brexit process. i particularly welcome the excellent work done by michel barnier. we have seen today once again a strong majority convergence in this house on the european union's negotiating strategy with the united kingdom. this convergence creates positive expectations among european citizens. they hope that the spirit which animates it will spread and contaminate other key options for the union. they expect less tactics and indecision and more courage and ambition in the management of the other dossiers which were also discussed at the european council. this is the moment when the future relevance or irrelevance of the european union on a global scale is decided. so while remaining calm and strong in managing brexit, we must be ambitious and swift in defining the next multiannual financial framework and have the courage to continue to engage in constructive dialogue with those who want to join the european project.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the juncker commission review (2019/2831(rsp)). we are here today to discuss the budget of your commission. i thank the commissioners who are in the chamber. before i leave you the floor, i would like to thank you for your commitment to the service of europe. this commitment did not begin when he was elected president of the european commission as a spitzenkandidat, but has accompanied him throughout his political life. during your presidency you have shown that europe should not isolate but unite: the commission's communication on the future of the european union is based on the following three pillars: the negotiations on brexit with the united kingdom; the search for a european response in the context of migration policy and the reception of refugees; the fight against populism; the juncker plan and the deepening of economic and monetary union and the retention of greece in the euro area. the challenges have been great and, despite our differences of opinion, the polemics, the debates, which are also a sign of the vitality of democracy, the european parliament has always been able to count on a europe that is fairer, more united, more sustainable and closer to the citizens. i also thank you for your cooperation and the attention you have always shown to our parliament.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly five years since your parliament placed its trust in my commission, and you have never denied it. we have had, it is true, difficult relationships, sometimes, but always polite, tumultuous but orderly. i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart because to have the confidence of this house, to be able to rely on the confidence of the elected representatives of europe, reflecting european democracy, is a lasting honour for everyone. i see many familiar faces here, many of whom have become friends, not only from an interinstitutional point of view but also for life, and i therefore wanted to thank you from the bottom of my heart, as i would like to thank president tusk. we were twin brothers. even twin brothers can have disagreements sometimes, but we were smart enough to keep it a secret. and so, it's probably surprising to you to hear that we've had disagreements. so i wanted to thank donald for his unfailing complicity, for a friendship that will endure and that honors me. friendships - the word is used incorrectly and through - are rare in politics, and even more so within the same political family. without donald i could not have done what i have done, and i would also like to wish mrs von der leyen good luck as this is my last address to this house. he is the person we need to lead the commission and he needs our encouragement and our wishes. good for you, ursula! and i also wanted to thank my supervisors because without them, i couldn't have done anything. these are men and women who, individually and collectively, have served europe well. i want to thank them for that. thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much. when i took office in 2014, europe was actually fragile. there were many cracks and ruptures of solidarity. europe in 2014 was unpopular, which led me to speak of the commission as the last chance. but i did not want to talk about the commission, but about a commission at the service of europe that was broken, since we were approaching a crucial moment in the future of europe in 2014 and therefore, we were all in charge of bringing to life the last chance that was at the doorstep of europe. i had decided with my colleagues to set up a political committee. i wanted the commissioners to be elected. apart from the british commissioner - i have had two british commissioners, one more excellent than the other - all the commissioners were elected officials, either at national or european level. i wanted the commissioners to be well-known faces, in their own countries or in europe. i had invited them not to lock themselves up in brussels, not to gather in the berlaymont, but to circulate, to explain, to dialogue with other elected officials and with public opinion and therefore the citizens. we have organised 1 815 citizens' dialogues over the last five years. and the commissioners have attended and visited national and regional parliaments 911 times. at the beginning of my mandate i promised you that the commission would concentrate on the essentials, 'to be big on big', and i wanted, we wanted, to put an end to the legislative inflation which, up to that point, had characterised the commission's work. we did so because we tabled 84% fewer legislative initiatives than previous commissions. we have withdrawn 142 legislative proposals and we have modernised 162 existing laws. who does it better? we have done everything we could to achieve what we promised, but that does not prevent some of us from continuing to play the game of accusing the commission of being too big, of taking care of everything. prejudice is a fact of life in europe. everything's changed, but we act like nothing has. when i came to you, i had three words of order that i wanted to dictate the commission's conduct: growth, employment and investment. we are in the midst of the 25th consecutive quarter of growth. we have had seven years of growth in the european union. we created 14 million jobs. unemployment is at its lowest level since the year 2000. 241 million europeans are in work, an employment rate of 73.9%. the juncker plan has generated investments of around €432 billion. at first, when it was thought that the plan would fail, there was talk of the juncker plan. now that it has been successful, we are talking about the european fund for strategic investments. that's the story! a million jobs have been created thanks to this plan. we have also given the stability and growth pact a new interpretation by making some of its provisions more flexible. we did so against the wishes of many member states, which have never formally approved the flexibility lines with which we have enriched the stability pact. nevertheless, the result is there: deficits have fallen from 6.6% to 0.7%. this wise, thoughtful and intelligent flexibilization of the stability pact has enabled us to respond in person when spain, portugal, italy and greece asked us to act in their favour. i have known, my dear friends, in my mandate, disappointments and successes. disappointment because, despite our efforts, we have not succeeded in advancing the cause of cypriot reunification. again, time was wasted. we have not been able to conclude a treaty with switzerland, despite our many and intensive efforts. we have not succeeded in perfecting the banking union. not because of the commission's proposals, but because of the member states' failure to make an effort. but if we do not complete banking union properly, by making economic and monetary union into a banking union which is characteristic of monetary unions all over the world, we will not be ready to react to the next shock, whether it is internal or external. among the things that need to be done is the urgent obligation that should be ours to put in place a deposit guarantee system. without deposit guarantees, no banking union and no perfect banking union, no economic and monetary union. we must know how to respond to these challenges. but we have also had some successes, despite the multi-stage crisis we have experienced in the last five years. i don't dare speak of success because i don't want to indulge in self-satisfaction, although i feel like it. but we've had some successes. i would like to start by mentioning the social dimension of the european union. the european parliament has been a little unloved over the past decades, but we have been able to adopt the european pillar of social rights. i remember that when i first appeared before this parliament as a young labour minister during the luxembourg presidency of the council of the union, i had already made that speech. even before we approved the european pillar of social rights, we had put the directive on the posting of workers back into practice. and contrary to expectations, we have managed to get parliament and the council to agree. i think it is a success of this commission to have established the principle that the same job should have the same pay. the dignity of the workers was at that price. and if we think we can build europe, make it prosper, without the consent of the working people, we are very much mistaken. europe must also be the europe of the workers. another success, i think, is greece. i'm talking about it because it's been a lot of work and a lot of worry. we have restored to greece the dignity it deserves. too often and too long has the dignity of the greek people been trampled upon, and i have tried to restore order by restoring to this people all the nobility it deserves. the commission was prevented from acting in favour of greece. i remember the long nights with the governments of samaras, tsipras and now mitsotakis - he was not yet in office - where we tried to solve the greek problem. many governments did not want the commission to deal with it. i will always remember the phone calls from several prime ministers who told me: "mind your own business. it is up to the states to deal with the greek problem. i had this naive but fair idea that we should respect the treaty. and the treaty says that the commission is in charge of the general interest of europe. it was in the public interest to avoid the break-up of the euro zone and so we were right to do what we did. africa, yeah. as europeans, we cannot forget our first neighbours: they are africans. it is a continent that needs our solidarity. but not just our charity. charity is an ancient reflex of europeans, whereas today it is a question of establishing a true partnership of equals between africa and europe. investing in africa, creating jobs in africa, must be the 'leitmotiv' of our action, and we must not see africa through the prism of the refugee crisis alone. it is a disservice to the honour of africans to consider relations with africa only with refugees in mind. but let's do what we have to do so that the poor people don't jump into the ocean. refugees - success or failure? the balance sheet is better than one might think, but it could be even better if the council, like parliament, had followed all the proposals which the commission had submitted to the co-legislator for consideration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the dublin ii regulation and the implementation of the dublin ii regulation. but let us not forget that thanks to europe we have been able to save 760,000 lives in the mediterranean. 760 000 fewer deaths thanks to the action taken by europe. i said in march 2015 what we were going to do about refugees. and the house applauded me from their seats. i said, "you're applauding me today, are you sure you'll still be applauding me in two years?" the applause was less enthusiastic in the years that followed, because in many countries domestic politics took precedence over the elementary solidarity that should have been ours. i was very busy, although i did not think about it when i became head of the commission on international trade. this is a difficult subject, highly controversial in all our countries, with often good arguments against hasty trade agreements. but we changed that. we have concluded 15 international trade agreements. we now have trade agreements with 60 countries, representing 40 percent of global wealth. trade agreements help us to be present on the international stage at a time when the united states is turning its back on multilateralism and thus on organized solidarity with others. we must also talk about europe's role in the world. the greatest european success, the greatest achievement, remains the fact that we have been able to maintain peace in europe. that sounds so self-evident, but it's not. there are today, as i speak, 60 kriege weltweit. the european union is not the scene of the bloodiest war in the last century, not even in the last century. peace is not self-evident, and we should be proud of it! (beifall) now i am aware that young people cannot be content with the present, that europe can have peace in our minds. the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union. the european union's immediate neighbourhood alone needs to be seen to see how dangerous the international situation is, and therefore also how fragile the situation of the european union is. young people must tell about war and peace. in 20 years there will be no more europeans whose grandfathers or great-grandfathers knew the war. also muss man darüber reden, sonst gerät in vergessenheit, was krieg bedeutet. the german word for war is "war is not forgotten". and that is why i also talk to young people again and again about the topic of war and peace. but it's not enough to explain. young people must also explain europe in perspective, in terms of its future. what is the future of europe? we are the smallest continent. most europeans know that at all. we are very small on the european continent. politics is the stuff, demography and geography have to be brought together. there is no politics, geography and demography in the eye of the beholder. we die, we will not disappear, but we will become less and less. at the beginning of the 20th century, 20% of the world's population was european, but by the end of this century, only 4% of the world's 10 billion people will be european. we are becoming economically and economically powerful. in some years not a single eu member state will be a member of the g7 group, which should disappear anyway, because the g20 is more important than the g7. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. europe means peace, but also strength in the face of the sinking influence we have in the world. therefore we must also in questions of foreign policy to taxbareren regelungen und entscheidungsfindungswegen come. i would once again ask that we also in matters of foreign policy not decide by a qualified majority in the council on all questions, but that wherever it comes to that, europe bears witness. i have an experience of special art in washington. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. why is it frozen? trump has seen in einer langen einführung das mag er geschildert, wer alles schon in diesem büro saß und was er denen gesagt hat: chancellor es gibt mehrere davon , prime minister, präsidenten, und er hat gesagt, dass er denen doch bereits alles erklärt habe. he has seen in a long introduction das mag er geschildert, wer alles schon in diesem büro saß und was er denen gesagt hat: chancellor es gibt mehrere davon , prime minister, präsidenten, und er hat gesagt, dass er denen doch bereits alles erklärt habe. he has seen in a long introduction das mag er geschildert, wer alles schon in diesem büro saß und was er denen gesagt hat: chancellor es gibt mehrere davon , prime minister, präsidenten, und er hat gesagt, dass er denen doch bereits alles erklärt habe. i say, the kingdom is not, and europe must also explain. and then he says: warum? i say because the commission alone is responsible for trade matters. everything, was the others say, so tüchtig sie auch sein mögen, zählt nicht. es zählt yesterday, was der präsident der kommission im namen der europäischen union was the president of the commission, mr von der vring, who was present at the meeting. that has impressed him very much and me even more. because when a man as luxembourgish in washington sits and says: "i am the man" it's like nothing you've ever seen. i am not sad, nor overly happy, but in the feeling, i am happy to have been relieved. and if all the redlich would be better, would be a lot better. i was proud that for a long time, especially in the last five years, a small part of a larger whole was more important than we were. take care of europe and fight stupid and narrow nationalisms with all your might. the european union is a great example of this. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european union is a global community of citizens. politics is about change, democracy is about change. today is the day to say goodbye. a great european will be leaving the european stage in the coming weeks. it is jean-claude juncker. we christian democrats bow to you. we want to thank you, dear jean-claude, for your life's work. and when i talk about lifetime achievement, it's not just these five years. as 36-year-old finance minister, you had already taken part in the discussions on the foundations of monetary union. you negotiated the dublin compromise between germany and france. i do not know how many times you, as a luxembourg, have had to negotiate compromises between germany and france, and you were the one who brought the treaty of lisbon to life, especially the democratization of europe. no matter what happens to democratic europe, you and martin schulz will remain the founders of this democratic europe. you should be proud of that, too. your key talent is finding compromises. you've settled thousands of disputes in your political career and reconciled countless people. and you described it: even donald trump couldn't get away from your compromise-making style. you called your commission the commission of the last chance. five years ago, you faced many crises, and during your tenure, god's grace, more came along: brexit, migration crisis you have touched on some. we cannot choose the tasks we have to perform, unfortunately, god himself, we can only take them courageously. and you, along with the entire college, took that chance and you took it. your commission was faced with tasks that could have easily filled five terms, and you have answered them together. the last chance commission has seized this opportunity. europe is better off than it was five years ago: 12 million unemployed, trade agreements, we have achieved a lot in the fight against terrorism, we have made significant progress in the migration crisis, we have reached out to africa, we have now put brexit on the line. thanks to you, europe is a safer, more prosperous and fairer continent than it was five years ago. i would like to make three points which have remained in my mind: first, texts and laws are one thing, but people's lives and reality are another. for example, when we talk about the application of the stability pact, you mentioned greece, you mentioned italy and other countries: here, in the last few years, we have learned from your way of applying the texts that behind every text there are people, there is life achievement. respect that, take it seriously, take it up, you've set it on the road. (applause from the centre) the second thing that sticks in my mind is that europe is still described by many people today as the europe of money, the euro, the market and so on. you have always pointed out that we europeans are not in favour of the market, but of the social market economy. you're the child of a miner. you can probably sing the ladder song as flawlessly as you can talk to business leaders about the future in davos, and putting that together is your success. you've been putting socialism on the agenda for the last five years. thank you so much for this. and thirdly, you have not compromised on the fundamental values of europe. europe, the continent of democracy, of the rule of law. europe, the continent of equal rights for men and women, of the protection of minorities - quite simply, a europe of freedom. you have fought for this europe, you have stood up for it, and you have not made any compromises, either internally or externally. thanks for the accent, too. you have given new life to the idea of europe and you have firmly opposed populists on the left and the right. the enormous increase in voter turnout, the growing enthusiasm for europe in europe is also your merit. the 'last chance' committee has used it, the whole college has used it, and we as the epp would like to thank them for that. finally, dear jean-claude, your epp group is proud of your tenure. you have saved europe from great damage in stormy times and made our continent a better place. we are happy to have you in our ranks. the great christian democrats like helmut kohl and wilfried martens have greatly appreciated you. they knew: you are standing with alcide de gasperi, robert schuman and konrad adenauer in the ranks of the great christian democrats who have shaped europe. in many of your speeches you once said that europe is a love affair, that's how you described it. i might want to take it a step further: it is not just a love affair, because an affair is only very brief, but a real bond for life has now grown between you and europe. you have a major part to play in the success of the european union, in the success of the idea for which you fight and for which you are passionate. as a christian democrat, i would like to thank you very much on behalf of your group. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to know where we want to go, it is important to know where we are and how we got here. it has not been an easy road and you know it well, mr juncker. five years ago you proposed a new agenda: it was called 'a new start for europe', but that 'new start' was only halfway done. we are aware that you have tried to distance yourself from the policy of austerity and rigor imposed on us by mr barroso, and that attempt has always had the support of our political family. the effects of the crisis have been very heavy and today we have to admit that we have not been able to take the radical decisions we needed to set a new course. i hope that now, in the new legislature, we will be able to do so. when you came to the commission, you proposed a series of measures. he succeeded in submitting more than 90% of them, but only half have been approved. the others are left in the ink, and some were crucial. in many cases, the failure is not due to the commission but to the lack of cooperation and ambition on the part of governments in the council. he promised us a new agenda to create jobs, growth, equality, social justice. true, the task was ambitious and not easy. you have inherited the effects of the most severe economic crisis europe has experienced since the war, and to that we add an unprecedented migration crisis, which the member states have managed with a profound lack of solidarity. and the nasty surprise of brexit... is no small thing. but now the important thing is to know what you've failed so you don't make the same mistakes. it will recognise that we have always stood by it in defence of the union's values and interests. we social democrats have acted responsibly, defending at all times the european project, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the tireless work of frans timmermans for common values and principles, his fight against populism and extremism, has certainly contributed to the strength of this commission, and we will continue to demand the same commitment for the next one. it has also had us at its side in the search for a solution to the grave migration crisis. we thank him for his efforts to find a proposal based on solidarity and the responsibility of the member states. it is a pity that we have not succeeded in getting the council to move, but we will continue to work to get the dublin regulation unblocked. we have stood by them in resisting calls for multilateralism, in defending greater international cooperation, fairer trade and for europe to speak with one voice. you have also had an extraordinary ally on the international scene, high representative federica mogherini. it has not only cemented a much-needed new alliance between africa and the european union, but it has also deepened a historic agreement with iran. what we have not managed to do is to make sufficient progress in the reform of the euro area and the economic transformation of the union. as we demanded five years ago, you launched the european investment plan which has been the seed of the european green deal and the sustainable investment plan which the next commission will have to put forward. and we are trying to do that, if possible, with more energy. the work of pierre moscovici has been instrumental in introducing flexibility into the stability and growth pact, in response to the irrational austerity and absolute rigidity imposed by the right. mr moscovici, thank you for your efforts to combat tax evasion and money laundering. it is unacceptable that the council has rejected so many proposals to improve tax justice, to make large companies pay their taxes, and not just families, workers and small businesses. your commission, mr juncker, has responded to our demands for a european social pillar, but this is only a starting point: we want this pillar to be translated into concrete measures. we want universal access to social protection, strengthened collective bargaining, decent wages, eradicated child poverty and reconciled personal and working life. it is true that improvements have been made in the area of equality and today, following the announcement that your commission has achieved the objective of 40 per cent women in management positions within the european commission, which is excellent news, i think that your commission could not have said its goodbyes in a better way, because europe will not be if it is not with its women, with equal opportunities between men and women. this is a very important issue for our political group and for me personally, and we have to acknowledge and appreciate the work that has been done on this. unfortunately, the conservative forces in parliament and the council have blocked further progress. we do not blame you, mr juncker; we praise your european enthusiasm, we thank you for your dedication and your good humour. i would like to take up the last sentence of his speech: europe must fight nationalism, because europe is a project of coexistence, europe is a project of peace. and today we have to thank you for your efforts; you have our full respect and admiration.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president of the commission, dear jean-claude, i would like to take this important opportunity to thank you not only for your work as president of the commission, but also for your career as a committed european. you have given many lessons on what it means to be a true european and i want to thank you for that. under your leadership, we have had to put the financial crisis behind us, deal with brexit and the migrant crisis. you have managed to preserve european unity and i believe that everyone here unanimously thanks you for this unity, which is the most precious common good. some people have called your commission the commission of the last chance. another commission is now in place and the anti-europeans have not got the score they hoped for. the desire to build a europe that is useful to our citizens remains at the heart of this parliament. i hope that we will now have a commission of the new chance. of course, not everything has been achieved, but much has been achieved during the years you have been at the head of the commission. i could give many concrete examples, but i will focus in particular on the juncker plan, which i do not think we have discussed enough. initially it was reviled and criticised, but it has had a real impact and has shown many small and medium-sized enterprises the face of a useful and efficient europe, which makes innovative projects possible. you also want a more political commission, as you said in your speech. i believe that you have paved the way for the next steps, which will have to be even more political, because it is through politics that we will find european solutions to the concrete problems of europeans. we must continue along this path of strengthened dialogue between the institutions and between pro-european forces to build step by step the europe that is at the heart of your commitment. thank you, mr juncker, and thank you to your whole commission for showing and proving what europe means and what it means to work for europe.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not be talking today about the figures behind the 2020 budget. i will speak about the policy that every european budget must defend. i have heard too often in brussels that the budget is interpreted in terms of contributor and beneficiary. too often we reduce all budgetary discussions to who pays and who gets. it is an approach that lacks economic reality and, above all, the objective for which a european budget was created. we are committed to building a continent that is united, prosperous, with converging economies and that respects the environment. the eastern countries are indeed favoured for some investments from european public money, but the common market offers many other advantages to net contributors. let's look at trade balances, capital flows. these advantages are far more important than budget lines. it's not just unfair to talk about contributors and beneficiaries all the time, but it's actually dangerous for our future. take the example of great britain. its leaders have been talking for decades in terms of gains and losses in relation to the european budget. they didn't send a strong message that they were highlighting the economic benefits of being in the common market, the volume of private financial flows. they didn't want to look at the full economic picture. it's sad when a part of the population only knows what they give and not what they get. i want the 2020 budget to send a clear message. yes, we want a more ambitious budget. yes, we want to meet our environmental commitments, to strengthen (words that are not mutually intelligible) technical assistance and not leave, for example, a newly created institution like the european public prosecutor's office without sufficient funds. i hope to find the same ambition in all european decision-makers. the citizens who voted for us need to know that we have clearly defined goals. we cannot have a strong europe and always argue about the budget.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak and i can tell you frankly, as a new member of parliament, that i was a little afraid to be alone in this great hall because i see that everyone talks and then leaves. i think the democratic exercise is to sit here and listen to each other; maybe that's how we learn what hurts each other, because we talk about solidarity, we talk about europe. i don't want to argue with anyone, but the power to stand here and listen to others i think has to be part of who we are. i want to tell you that i am not in favor of any cut and i will never vote for any cut in funding, especially for the harmonious development of what local communities mean. we can't ask for more action and results, but we can ask for less money. we want europe to be a world leader in fighting climate change. we want the young people to be better prepared. we want europe's regions to be leaders in competitive development. we want smart and digital cities. we want more inclusion and social balance. that's why we need a responsible budget, that's why... (the president interrupts the speaker)... we need first of all to sit down and listen and be able to negotiate.
madam president, this is tudor ciuhodaru, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital - a collective, a city, a hospital where european neurosurgery is done on time. so i'm extremely surprised that there's been so little talk today about health, especially since so many lives will be saved by now. the new rescue programme which i have supported both as a doctor and as a member of parliament, which will receive 156.2 million euros from tomorrow, is designed precisely to intervene effectively at european level in emergency situations, and i am talking about fires, floods, natural disasters. i ask that you support this motion tomorrow. i also note that effective measures are needed in terms of intervention and prevention. that is why i am calling on the european parliament today, on behalf of all european patients or potential patients, the commission and the european council to consider developing the european civil protection mechanism, which will facilitate, through medical, logistical and information capacities, therapeutic intervention in critical patients - here i am talking about burns and polytrauma - especially as this needs to be developed in all member states. in addition, i ask you today that the emergency hospital in iasi, which will be built with european funds, be included in this initiative. in addition, i am talking about budget allocations for the budget needed to develop and draft a european-wide cancer programme and there is a need for... (the president interrupts the speaker)... health education. thank you, i'll talk more about health, and i'm sure you all want to do that because unity in diversity is health, and i ask you to support this initiative.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. i will not speak about numbers, i am addressing the commissioner. i have heard his call for projects on turkey which have added value for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this method has been tested; what did we have ? the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of the palestinian people. this is 2019. i ask you directly, explain to us how the same method will produce a different result with regard to turkey.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have listened carefully with my staff to all their suggestions, concerns, critical arguments and suggestions and expectations and will look at them again in the next few hours and days in the course of a comprehensive evaluation. this will be the basis for a letter of intent which we will be submitting to you in a few days' time, which will then, as i said, include and assess both the amendments proposed by parliament after your decision here in the house tomorrow and the amendments proposed by the council which we have already received. we will also be sending you the information parliament has requested on reserves, on the conditions attached to these reserves, and we hope that this will enable the 2020 budget to be implemented without reserves, if possible. i was very interested in the speech by mr mick wallace and will now briefly comment on it. the question is: is economic growth per se bad for climate change and environmental protection? i deny that. i can imagine a growth of the european economy that can be achieved not against climate change but for climate change or at least climate neutral. i have only two thoughts on this: the whole service sector, where we care for people; if we increase education and training, if we increase childcare and childcare, that can create growth, but it has nothing to do with emissions, with chimneys, with co2 greenhouse gases. that is why it is always important to ask where the economy and the world of work should grow. secondly, if we take the energy issue and advocate more wind power - also in ireland - we already have and want more: wind turbines need steel, aluminium, copper and concrete. now the question is how steel, copper, aluminium and concrete are produced: in modern steelworks, highly efficient, environmentally friendly or by importing from overseas from old steelworks, with price dumping and more emissions. so i ask you to accept that economic growth, gdp growth, is not one-to-one with increases in co2 emissions. may i remind you: the european union has grown significantly in recent decades, and yet co2 emissions have fallen significantly not strongly enough, but they have fallen significantly. the decoupling of emissions and economic growth is possible. we can prove that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wish the regions in rural bulgaria and eastern croatia the same social prosperity as the citizens of dublin or stuttgart. anything else would be unsolidarity. that is why growth policy remains part of our cohesion, infrastructure and research policies. the decoupling of climate-damaging emissions is nevertheless linked to and possible.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i listened carefully to the arguments raised during this lively debate and took note of our differing views. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, their shadows, the chairs of the committees and group speakers for your clear argumentation. the debate has certainly helped to clarify the european parliament’s position and your priorities, and i will inform my colleagues in the council accordingly. as someone mentioned here during the debate, it takes two to agree. that’s very true; the council will do its utmost to engage in constructive dialogue, allowing us to come to an agreement on the budget for 2020 within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i would like to comment on the words of mr krah, who has so much emphasized national competence that europe is not doing anything and that there is an alienation from the citizen. have you looked at the budget headings we are increasing? have you considered that this is actual cancer research of an interdisciplinary nature with cross-border work by universities and corresponding higher education institutions? have you ever considered the fuel cell research? have you dealt with the interoperability of energy systems, with the steel industry, which the commissioner mentioned, where research is now being done to ensure that the co2 emitted by the steel industry is used for the production of basic materials within the chemical industry, so that there can be a carbon neutral steel industry? all of this is concrete, and if you think that the climate impact is zero, then i can only tell you this: if we do this kind of research, then it will benefit others and then it will have an impact on the whole world, not just europe. that's our goal, to be modern, to be competitive, to be climate-sensitive, to be environmentally friendly, to do research that makes us globally competitive. that's the goal that we're working towards together, that we're putting things together in a meaningful way. and, dear finnish presidency, i would like to see a less stoic response, a more even response, a common commitment. of course, as a parliament we know that we must also be willing to compromise, but somehow the council's move must be a little more in the direction of at least a millimetre of progress. and i hope that we will be able to talk to each other before 15 november, because i believe that the objectives that parliament has chosen are really worth discussing and that we should try to send a strong signal together to those gentlemen who, as british people, have been particularly negative. i can only say to my british colleagues that the european court of auditors is also targeting the united kingdom, where there are national audit authorities where there are openly serious concerns, for example in wales, that you do not meet the standards. i don't want us to treat each other that way. if we have mistakes, we want to correct them, whether in the uk or elsewhere, including here in germany, but we want to have a reasonable budget and respect each other and have a budget that takes us forward. that's what matters to me.
the rapporteur. madam president, mrs hohlmeier has made a good conclusion of this debate. i would also like to stress that if there is any institution that is flexible when it comes to negotiating the european budget, it is certainly parliament, and we will continue to show that flexibility. so, just a few seconds, because we are also very late in the debate, to thank mrs hohlmeier for her work on the general budget and to thank also all the alternative rapporteurs who have taken part in the elaboration of our position. and above all, and almost as a farewell - although we do not yet know whether we will negotiate this budget with him or with his successor, mr hahn - a very special thank you to commissioner oettinger, because we have shared many very long nights of negotiations, he has always had a very constructive spirit and, above all, he has insisted on defending the european budget and explaining it with very concrete data; sometimes we have to go much further in specifying the damage that budget cuts can cause for programmes that we consider fundamental. so, thank you very much and i hope to see you very soon.
in writing. in the process of preparing the general budget for the financial year 2020, parliament has played and must continue to play a decisive role in ensuring that the european union is able to meet increasingly complex challenges. among these, i would particularly stress the need to provide the gai agencies and the european public prosecutor's office with the appropriate resources, staff and training to enable them to carry out their assigned tasks effectively. the year 2020, like previous years, is expected to be particularly challenging in terms of security, migration, protection of fundamental rights and respect for the rule of law. the gis agencies have been at the forefront of responding to these crises so far, demonstrating a high capacity to adapt to the changing european context. europol and eurojust also make an important contribution to the fight against organised and transnational crime, drug trafficking and financial crime. the european public prosecutor's office will also need to have the necessary means to conduct thorough investigations and prosecute cross-border criminal activities. the guarantee of rights, legality, security and the protection of the financial interests of the union are objectives which we must ensure in the adoption of the budget.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to a number of problems that i have identified in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2020. the first concerns the under-spending of youth programmes and this should be changed in the future. it is the young who will be responsible for our countries and our union in the future. the priority of every budget should be to increase the funding for good education for young people and the creation of new jobs. it's a pity that it's not always like that. for example, the 'erasmus+' programme continues to be highly regarded and very popular, with applications far exceeding the available funds. this should be replaced by more funding to enable more people to benefit from the scheme. another very important issue is the need to increase funding for the european labour authority (ela). this should become a priority for the union as the youth unemployment rate, which stood at 14,2% in april 2019, remains unacceptably high and is particularly serious in most of the new eu member states. clearly, more eu funding is needed to increase the employment opportunities of young people and to strengthen their entrepreneurship, as well as to combat unemployment. these clearly defined priorities are missing from the general budget for the following year.
rapporteur. – madam president, first i would like also to thank the court of auditors, the commission, the agencies network and parliament’s staff for their valuable work during the 2017 discharge procedure. we are today discussing the last discharges from that year. the decentralised agencies are highly visible in the member states and have a direct impact on the daily lives of the union’s citizens. this is especially the case for the european asylum support office (easo). the refugee crisis has shaken europe from 2015 and even though, in the light of statistics, the crisis seems to be under control we still have to ensure the durability of our asylum system to avoid new crises from being born in the future. that is exactly why the money spent from the eu budget has to be used efficiently and any fraud in the use of public money has to be prevented. unfortunately, in the case of easo, this was not the fact for the financial year 2017. the european court of auditors issued an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the legality and regularity of the revenue and the payments underlying the accounts for all agencies in 2017 except for the payments of easo. we do regret that the court issued an adverse opinion for easo’s payments. the matters which led the court to issue this opinion were mainly related to non-compliance of payments on public procurement and recruitment procedures. therefore, in march 2019, the european parliament decided to postpone granting discharge to the executive director of easo for the financial year in question and to postpone the closure of the accounts for that year. as the discharge authority, the committee on budgetary control proposes, after an almost unanimous vote, to finally refuse the discharge of easo for the financial year 2017. the following issues were taken into consideration: first, the findings of olaf regarding irregularities surrounding the breach of procurement procedures, misappropriation of union funds, mismanagement, abuse of position in human resources issues, breaches of data protection rules, harassment and inappropriate behaviour towards staff; second, the systematic nature of non—compliance has demonstrated an inadequate internal control system; and third, the combined error from non—compliant payments amounted to at least eur 7.7 million, corresponding to 10.3% of the total payments made by easo in 2017. in addition, we must highlight that the budget for the financial year 2017 was implemented under the supervision of the office’s previous management and that this report concerns the discharge procedure for that year. however, we do acknowledge easo’s new management’s commitment to ambitious reforms. we recognise the progress made on the implementation of internal control systems. all in all, we cannot compromise good governance and sound financial management of the eu budget. i hope that this parliament will not do that. with such grave findings as the case of easo in 2017, refusing to grant discharge is the only way forward.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to begin by thanking mr sarvamaa, who was rapporteur, for his valuable work. i believe that he has thoroughly studied and worked on the easo matter and the 2017 financial year. firstly, easo plays a key role in the field of our european migration policy and in the field of advising member states on their migration policy. easo is making a very valuable contribution to the establishment of a european asylum system. and we are in the middle of this and we want to take further steps where easo will play a more and more important role. and that requires building on trust and solidarity on the ground. easo is a partner of the member states, supporting their asylum systems, which are faced with a high number of asylum applications. easo is also an important service provider for the rapid resettlement of migrants who are voluntarily admitted by member states. in order to ensure convergence of national asylum systems, easo has developed standards for reception conditions that are intended to apply throughout europe. member states have the right and undertake to use the expertise of easo, for example in relation to the situation in the countries of origin, where easo can provide comprehensive information. the importance of the work of this agency is one of the reasons why the commission takes the issue of easo's governance and past problems very seriously. it is about the authority of easo, which is necessary. the commission has been closely monitoring the situation of easo since 2016 and has supported efforts to improve the governance and functioning of the agency, to learn from and to rectify errors, with particular emphasis on recruitment, procurement, budgetary and audit procedures and internal governance. the commission has also provided the easo with a number of documents, including the easo's annual report on the implementation of the schengen acquis, the annual report on the implementation of the schengen acquis and the annual report on the implementation of the schengen acquis. we will continue to do so. but we must all be clear about one thing: we have two types of agencies in the european union. the first type are executive agencies which are ultimately part of the commission's mission, where the oversight is clarified. and we have decentralized agencies, which are exactly what we want because of secondary european law. the legal structure is exactly what we wanted, and the commission has very, very limited co-responsibility here. the main responsibility lies with the management board, which includes representatives of all member states the commission has only two seats and the main responsibility lies with the management itself. in fact, these decentralised agencies are somewhere in the triangle between the council, parliament and the commission, and there is no clear technical supervision, no clear in-house supervision, no clear supervisory function, no clear legal supervision. i would also like to make the following proposal to the council, after my experience of the last ten years and just before i leave the house: i think we should learn from this case of a misdevelopment in these decentralised agencies - especially as they have gained enormous importance in recent years - and come to a clear technical supervision, a clear service supervision, a clear legal supervision. it is not clear whether this will be the commission. but if you are in doubt, you need an authority that is operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and that takes care of this task and therefore also ensures that the rules are followed and that the guarantee is given. if it is primarily the responsibility of the agency itself to remedy deficiencies, then there is a certain bias at the bottom. i think that, ladies and gentlemen, our common task should be to reflect on this - apart from the individual case - as a lesson to be drawn from this case. back to the case: we welcome the considerable progress made in working with the management board and the interim director. 48 of the 61 actions provided for in the action plan have already been completed to address the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors. it is about strengthening procurement procedures, it is about internal controls, and it is also about speeding up recruitment. progress was made in recruitment in 2019, with 100 out of 175 recruitments made that year and nine management positions filled, with only six remaining vacant. we trust that the new executive director, nina gregori, who took office a few months ago, will consolidate the work and ensure that all recommendations are fully implemented, thus fully restoring easo's credibility. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of all measures. following the report of olaf, our anti-fraud authority, the commission will support the implementation of the recommendations concerning the responsibilities of the management board as the appointing authority in relation to the agency in this capacity. our common objective must be to put in place measures to prevent incidents of this kind from ever happening again. the commission relies in particular on the management of easo to ensure the proper functioning of the agency. we are prepared to continue to provide our expertise here. in order to help tackle the challenges of asylum, we proposed three years ago to transform easo into a fully-fledged european asylum agency to better fulfil its mandate. we therefore call on parliament and the member states to give priority to our proposals for change, so that we can adopt this legislation quickly.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, let me also thank the rapporteur, mr sarvamaa, for his work, because indeed today's presentation was excellent and it was precisely there that he described the problems of easo. i visit the easo agency in valletta, malta, every year. i was there in 2017. i remember in 2017, i had a presentation of this agency, showing me how it should grow, how it should fulfill new tasks, and how it should really step up to be one of the most important agencies in the european union. and this scandal what did he do? he trampled this agency to the ground. what happened at the agency is a scandal and it needs to be said, it needs to be said here in this chamber that we will never accept anything like that. and i would like to thank the european court of auditors and olaf for their cooperation in investigating the whole case. unfortunately, it wasn't fully investigated because of the capacity of the people who worked on it. however, from what has transpired, i can say that i was shocked and that i firmly believe that this meeting will be a memento mori for all agency directors, so that similar things that happened there will not be repeated.
on behalf of the renew group. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, factually and as a minimum that we owe to european citizens, the european asylum support office cannot receive the discharge from parliament for the financial year 2017. in short, at least eur 7.7 million from the pockets of european citizens was spent without respecting the legal procedures for budget implementation. the biggest problems identified by the olaf investigation also relate to the organisation of public tenders, irresponsible spending of european money, abusive behaviour of the former management towards the office's employees, cases of harassment and non-compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. commissioner, decentralised or not, the union institutions must be a model of good practice and manage responsibly the money that comes from the more than 500 million citizens of the union. with these facts and figures on the table, the former easo executive director was removed from office last year, but at the same time it is a direct and personal plea that this man should never again be a european official and not hold a position of responsibility in the european union. the new ceo of the bank presented an ambitious restructuring plan with concrete actions. i assure her of my full support for the work she is doing with her colleagues, given the major importance easo has in implementing asylum policy. that is why i think we need to monitor this plan closely and make sure it is implemented to the end. discharge is not a formality, it is a major responsibility for this parliament. irresponsible management policies, abuse and disregard for public money cannot be acceptable nor repeatable practices, both at easo and elsewhere in the institutions of the european union.
mr president, it is once again clear that a fantastic idea, a good idea, in the people's interest, can be hijacked. unfortunately, these frauds call into question the very meaning of european intervention in emergencies. you should know that in the parliament of romania i have proposed an extremely drastic law by which all those guilty of such acts of corruption must pay and can never again occupy the public office in which they were put or to which they had access, because it is abnormal to give the key and the lock to the one who put the money in everyone's pocket, the money of romanians or european citizens. that is why i ask you to take firm measures so that such things do not happen again and an agency similar to the national anti-corruption directorate in romania - as the european prosecutor is doing today - is in charge of this case and we also have results in this area. i look forward to the outcome of this investigation and hope that once again confidence in the european institutions will be restored by the conviction of those responsible.
mr president, from my point of view, the things we have heard today are extremely serious and i think it is time we had a different democratic approach, including what control of european union funds means. there should be a law on transparency, and it seems incredible to me that in front of a parliament elected by the citizens of europe, there can be and there can be things that are still hidden, whether it is the budget or other procedures. secondly, i think it is time that there is an institution that independently verifies these budgetary discharges, to be above suspicion, but these clear rules must be made by european citizens and i remind you that the democratically elected body at this moment is the european parliament. so i ask my colleagues, maybe we can get together in parliamentary groups and find a single procedure that really addresses some very important requirements.
mr. president, this is just a rhetorical question: 11 years? and the great pyramids were built faster. meanwhile, the world has changed. and you see, along with the barriers that discriminate, such as age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, disability, new things have emerged. and what i think is terrible is that there are two very serious barriers: educational and economic. here we should be very careful and ensure the necessary measures, because access to health, access to education make europe different from today to tomorrow. indeed, human rights, the issue of human rights remains the issue of the 21st century. i ask the commissioner, and i hope that the finnish presidency will cooperate with all of us, with the european parliament, with the suggestions coming from our countries, because i remind you that in romania the minority problem has largely been solved and that we have a guide of good practice, taking place in schools, universities, in the national parliament, not just because this right is specified in legislation. we need to come up with clear legislative solutions, which are universal, which apply to all european countries and, of course, which also include sanctions for those who do not respect these rights.
in writing. i welcome the debate launched to promote the horizontal directive on non-discrimination. the proposal for such eu legislation was put to the table by the institutions more than 10 years ago, before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it's time to move on. this is precisely why it is worth talking about it again, and at the same time about other groups of eu citizens who still cannot feel that they are equal citizens of the eu, for example because they cannot use their mother tongue without restrictions, or because they are discriminated against in a hidden, indirect way because they belong to an indigenous national minority. these eu citizens need different conditions to enjoy equality, and we now know that simply prohibiting discrimination is not enough. the work that the eu legislators started in 2000 to guarantee non-discrimination must be developed and completed today, with a view to listening to groups that have been marginalised but have been present in europe for centuries. the union needs to pay greater attention to minorities, whether they fall under the scope of the horizontal directive or are fully protected by the union's values as enshrined in the treaties.
madam president, the turkish invasion of northeast syria has two components: a security component, which is driven by ankara's belief that it is dealing with kurdish militias as terrorist structures, and a migration and humanitarian component. the effects of this invasion are extremely severe. among them, we see that the syrian army is, for the first time in many years, in northern syria, which has also prevented turkey from getting all 440 km of border control, having to settle for 120 km. on the other hand, the invasion has caused the displacement of 170,000 syrians and 200 deaths in just five days. last but not least, the turkish invasion gave putin the opportunity to pose as the guarantor of syria's future independence, syria's territorial integrity and, in other words, full influence in syria. our position... (president interrupts speaker)... has been limited to announcing that... (president interrupts speaker)... we no longer export weapons. very well, we no longer export new weapons, europeans, take the weapons from putin. the solution is... (president interrupts speaker)... supporting the un representatives to guarantee... (president interrupts speaker)... a security zone on the turkish-syrian border.
madam president, what are our futile protests worth today? we extol the heroic struggle of the kurds against the islamic state, we emphasize on all sides the common destiny that binds us to them. but the truth, the sad truth, is that we europeans have abandoned them, and we are doing very little. the turkish aggression two weeks ago was made possible by american inconsistency and impetuosity. today we are spectators and we see mr. erdogan and mr. putin deciding the fate of the region and consolidating, it is really the cruelest irony, mr. bashar al-assad. for the kurds, it is a tragedy, a human disaster, but for the europeans, it is a doubly humiliating defeat. we have been unable to respond to unilateral illegal aggression and we have been unable to defend our allies. we must learn the consequences! today we are subjected to nato in a totally absurd way. nato is pointless. you talk incessantly about independent europe and europe-power, but we do not follow that path because we are stupidly in the wake of the americans who are making totally absurd decisions. frankly, we have to react, we have to stop shedding crocodile tears. and if you really want a europe worthy of the name, let us make wise decisions!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the erdogan government has exceeded all bounds of human decency. the middle east is witnessing an unacceptable slaughter, a senseless act of destabilization, a tragic humanitarian crisis. the highest price is paid by the kurdish people, to whom the international community should be grateful for their contribution to the fight against isis, a fight now compromised. we are talking about hundreds of thousands of displaced persons and hundreds of terrorists who have escaped from kurdish prisons. we have violations of international law and bombings of civilians, which have been carried out by a country which claims to be a member of the european union and which receives european funding and which is our commercial and political partner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the italian government has announced that it will immediately stop arms sales to turkey and it is important that all other countries of the european union do the same. we must stop all funding and abolish the process of accession to the european union for those who prove to be the deniers of a prospect of peace and of the values on which the european union is founded.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. freezing funds is not enough, we can only punish civil society, turkey does not need that, funds. turkey needs a strong moral warning that what it is doing is wrong. what he's doing is not morally right. erdoğan has to answer to the international criminal court. all those who commit the massacre, all those who ethnically displace the population after the same thing was done in srebrenica and vukovar and was about to be done in bihac, must be held accountable before those who will judge them. so, the international criminal court must be established for the crimes they commit.
i have to say, madam president, the war being waged by the erdoğan government in northern syria is a violation of international law and is destabilising the entire region. the united states has opened the way for the turkish government by withdrawing its troops. erdoğan's geopolitical strategy is to destroy the kurdish self-governing region of rojava and expand his own state territory. for years, the kurds have been fighting successfully against is, including for the safety of citizens in europe. of the kurdish fighters, 11 000 have already fallen against is. we in europe are deeply indebted to them. i welcome yesterday's extension of the ceasefire, but the kurds are paying a heavy price for not taking their interests into account. the region is far from a sustainable peace order. the inhumane resettlement plans of erdoğan must be removed from the table, and the kurds must be given a perspective for a life of dignity and self-determination. the european union and the international community must finally live up to their responsibilities here.
madam president, i join my colleagues who have condemned in the strongest terms the unilateral aggression of turkey, not russia. as the european union, we must act on three levels. the first is humanitarian. we are witnessing a tragic new phase of a humanitarian crisis that had long since reached historic proportions. the millions of syrian refugees already displaced in and around syria have now been joined by a few hundred thousand. the second plan is security. we risk a regrouping and resurgence of the islamic state, taking advantage of the chaos created in northern syria and the release of many isis fighters from the camps guarded by kurdish troops. finally, we need to act diplomatically and geostrategically. erdogan needs to feel the european pressure, and not us feeling indebted to erdogan for holding the refugees' tap. a turkey that acts as it wishes in the region, that systematically violates the rights of its own citizens and the values of the rule of law, a turkey that only engages in political dialogue with russia is a turkey to which we, as the european union, must give clear messages: an effective arms embargo, targeted and serious sanctions, encouraging turkish civil society by all means and supporting a process of restoring stability in syria, out of the russia-turkey-iran trio.
madam president, i think we’re a bit despondent here and we’re forgetting that, in the real world, things are happening. for example, my own local authority, county meath, today had an action training course on climate change for its staff and its local councillors. the neighbouring county, louth, have a very strong dunleer sustainable energy group and they work at ground level and help vulnerable communities refurbish their homes with support from government. so don’t be despondent. the real world is taking action. but we need to do much more. i want to talk in particular about how we’re going about this. there’s a lot of finger pointing about what you’re not doing and what you need to do and i think we need less of that. we are dividing sectors and we are fragmenting within sectors, particularly on agriculture. i want to say very clearly that farmers know that they need to take action, but if you push them into a corner and blame as being the problem, they cannot be part of the solution. so we need to be very careful about our language. farmers themselves are in dire straits. they’re protesting, they’re fragmenting and they really are directionless, so we need to give them direction. we have smart farming and we have conservation agriculture. i do agree that we need a more environmental common agricultural policy, but we need to give strong signals and reward people who do deliver. more importantly, the food supply chain is broken. competition law has resulted in the following statistics, and i’ll give them to you: 70% of global agricultural industry controlled by three companies, 90% of the grain trade by four companies, and the five largest food retailers in 13 member states have a combined turnover of 60% of the marketplace. it’s broken. we need to fix that before we can really fix climate change issues. (applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are facing a climate and ecological emergency today is a fact that must be taken very seriously, no matter what anyone says in this chamber. temperature records show that the last fifty years have seen an unprecedented upward trend. every european citizen now has near-direct experience of extraordinary and often catastrophic weather events. on the other hand, population pressure is increasing on the planet, we were about two billion in 1927, now we are seven billion with 30-year projections showing that by 2050 we will reach 10 billion. so if we want to preserve the planet and the quality of life for future generations, we need a paradigm shift in our development model. today, acting on climate change means implementing policies in all sectors, without exception. first of all, we must protect what we still have, by defending the environment and biodiversity. but then i think of the challenge of cleaner energy and more sustainable agriculture, the great theme of mobility, with less polluting means of transport and more efficient and integrated infrastructure, making the most of new models of shared mobility as well. equally important is vocational training to create the new skills required by innovations in production processes and consumption patterns. let us think about the circular economy and the possibility of employing new workers in the transformation of waste into new raw materials. because that is how we are protecting a subject which is dear to us, work, by adapting it to the new professions. but if we are not to fool ourselves, to wash our consciences with good intentions and then go on as if nothing had happened, we need adequate resources and far-sighted decisions. the commitments made by president ursula von der leyen simply need to be financed from a more ambitious and climate-friendly multiannual union budget. i'll close by paraphrasing nobel prize winner michel mayor, who recently, when asked about possible plan bs for new habitable planets, said: "let's think about taking care of our planet, which is still beautiful and above all, habitable". so let's take care of our planet now, not because greta asks us to, but because it's about our future.
madam president, commissioner oettinger, every time we discuss climate change in this house i look over there at the gallery at the young people because actually that’s what we’re discussing about. i want to give you a message today: the european union is a climate mitigation giant but the european union is also a climate adaptation dwarf. climate change is here and is happening now, but we are doing so little to adapt to it. we must adapt to climate change by changing the way we build houses, by preventing climate migration, by building dykes to prevent floods, by managing forests to prevent wildfires, by greening the roofs in our cities. there is no contradiction between mitigation and adaptation. in france, insulating homes to reduce greenhouse emissions is also an adaptation measure preparing the homes for climate change. but in the current mff, only 3% of our eu structural and investment funds on climate are related to adaptation. in the next mff, mr oettinger, let’s put our money where our mouth is.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to the fact that a key element should not be missing from this debate: our most powerful weapon to combat climate change - the european union's forests. they cover almost half the union's territory, they are europe's lungs, they sequester most of its carbon dioxide emissions and they are at the heart of all the environmental commitments we have made: the strategic forest plan, the un sustainable development goals, the paris agreement. however, almost 77% of the european union's forests are left to decay, they are not subject to binding common legislation, as the commission itself acknowledges in a reply that we have just received from the european commission. there is an hourly, life-and-death, multi-million-euro fight with the illegal logging mafia. i therefore believe it is very important that in the future european green deal the commission and the commissioner responsible for this portfolio should think of an effective, rigorous and applicable strategy for all member states for the forests of the european union, to which both the attention and the time and money necessary to accelerate the fight against climate change should be devoted.
madam president, we appreciate this consistent effort by the court of auditors and, to be honest, we see great changes in what it means to evaluate the european institutions. obviously, some things are correctable, and i can say today that only god's laws are perfect. on the other hand, i ask you to insist on prevention work, because many procedures can be simplified and i would not like to see necessarily guilty and thieves in places where there are errors because perhaps we have not directed certain activities properly, especially on agricultural activities, where things can be simplified. maybe we come up with some standard operating schemes, so that those involved in such activities don't make mistakes. thank you, and i am confident that as we look more closely at the work of these institutions, we will make a difference for the better throughout the european union.
mr president, i am very pleased that the majority of colleagues here have made it clear that the council's decision is wrong. we have debated many times on the floor of this parliament the need to integrate the countries of the western balkans. any other decision is bad, because it will lead to russia strengthening its influence in this area. that's what the guys said. the european union will weaken in this region. what can one say to the citizens of these two countries today, when the european union has thrown them overboard? that's an objective fact. commissioner, we have discussed here many times that it is in the interests of the european union, not just those countries, to continue the accession talks. to those colleagues who are expressing scepticism that these countries are not ready to join the eu, i say: this is about opening accession talks, not about joining. these talks may take years, but they give these countries a clear hope and a chance to join the european union one day. so i say, please, let's re-evaluate this, we press the council, we press france, we press macron. this decision is prejudicial to the european union.
mr president, as a friend of the western balkans, i have no doubt that albania and north macedonia will eventually join the eu. you have indeed taken important and successful steps so far to become a member, and the recent act of sabotage in the council by france, denmark and the netherlands is regrettable. in many ways, albania and north macedonia are ahead of some eu member states. for example, both countries have ratified the istanbul convention, whilst my own country, the uk, is dragging its heels and bulgaria prevaricates. i call on all leaders of the european council to put this back on their agenda and grant agreement for the opening of the accession talks. the image of the eu will be affected in the whole of the western balkans region and across the eu if we don’t demonstrate political integrity and openness. i am convinced that the future of the western balkans lies in europe and the future of europe lies in unity with the western balkans.
mr president, are we giving up the promise of europe whole, free and at peace? enlargement proved to be the best available instrument to assist and to encourage neighbouring countries to pursue democratic reforms, to develop market economies, to improve the well-being of citizens and, most importantly, to achieve regional cooperation and stability. via action plans and partnership agreements we are raising tough criteria for our neighbours, but somehow we forget to uphold our end of the deal. this is unjustifiable. the candidate countries might not be ready for membership today, but we must take a long-term perspective. we need to counterbalance the efforts of such countries as russia. their luxurious proposals offer only short—term gains, while the eu enlargement perspective is about the highest available quality of life, fundamental freedoms and peace. to achieve this, bureaucratic arguments must be replaced by a visionary policy of eu enlargement.
mr president, i am glad that the council has blocked the negotiations for albania's accession to the european union. albania is a well-known state with an endemic corruption that is suffocating its own society. one in three young people in the country is unemployed, according to world bank figures. although judicial reform has been under way in the country for some years, the results are very worrying. an independent commission, composed of international experts, eliminated the corrupt judges. as a result, of the seventeen judges who sat on the supreme court, only two remain and of the nine judges of the constitutional court, only one remains. these figures show the extent of corruption. it is obvious that albania does not deserve to be part of the union. it is, even today, as the belgian newspaper le soir headlined on 28 june 2019, a narco-state under the influence of traffickers.
mr president, in a few hours' time the european parliament's plenary will vote by an overwhelming majority, i believe, of almost all the political groups, a resolution calling on the council to immediately correct this historic mistake. we welcome the historic prespa agreement and we in the european parliament send a message to the people of north macedonia and albania that the european union is neither dishonest nor unreliable. we also send a message to president emmanuel macron that his 'no', which he must quickly correct, is not playing the game of stability and democracy and does not serve european interests - it serves the interests of nationalists, erdoğan, putin and increases instability in europe and the balkans and that is why the far right in the room applaud him.
member of the commission. the commission is not i would like to thank everyone in this chamber for their overwhelming support for a credible accession process and in particular for giving the green light to the two countries, north macedonia and albania, to start accession negotiations. we are not talking about them joining tomorrow or the day after, but we are talking about a process that will take several years. it can take years to build credibility, and it can take minutes or hours to destroy it. this has happened to some extent in the western balkans, but i'm telling you, not just in the western balkans. with this decision we have lost a great deal of the credibility, the reliability, the predictability that we stand for, that we advocate and fight for worldwide, as the european union. i say this in the light of the fact that a whole series of problems are reappearing in our immediate neighbourhood. the european union has a duty to help the people of the middle east, and to help the people of the middle east. i can only hope that those responsible for this current situation did not realise, in taking this decision, what it means for the european union's standing on a global scale and particularly in the neighbourhood, to have lost its capacity to find solutions, its influence and its power of enforcement. it's not gonna be easy to get that back. i am inclined - because i am a member of the party of the glass half full - to believe that things will turn out well again, and i am also prepared to take seriously the various arguments put forward in recent months to justify why the negotiations should not be opened now. i also admit that i sometimes felt that arguments were being put forward here which were really an excuse to avoid having to say clearly and unequivocally: i am against enlargement. one of the arguments we heard from france, but also from one or another country, was that we need to deepen, improve our form of cooperation, decision-making and so on before the next enlargement. i personally say: yes, i understand a lot about this, but i do not understand that these processes take place one after the other, but it is quite possible, sensible, realistic and pragmatic to run these processes in parallel, because both will take years. the only thing is that if we talk first about deepening and then about further accessions, then these countries have an accession perspective that is set in the 1930s, and i think we can agree that there is no perspective in this context. i can also assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that my services - myself, and, i assume, my successor - will be very keen to look at the methodology of the accession process. nobody is perfect. there are always possibilities for improvement, but much of what i have heard so far already exists, it already exists: the emphasis on the rule of law, the possibility of suspending negotiations, and no negotiation leads to 'necessarily' accession, but also this process is reversible. so that's what we're going to do, and i hope you'll participate in this issue with the commitment that you've brought to this issue. and so i'm going to end with a little story that's much shorter than it sounds: in 2013, as a regional commissioner in brussels, i organised a small seminar with civil society representatives from northern ireland, who presented their various examples, projects, case studies, how they organised, operated and promoted reconciliation in northern ireland. i can tell you that 90% of the participants in 2013 were representatives of the countries of the former yugoslavia. and they'll know exactly why they've been involved. because they are fully aware that peace, stability and prosperity in the western balkans region can only be achieved by integrating it into a larger whole, namely the european union. i would like to thank you again for this strong signal of hope, which you will send tomorrow with the relevant resolution, and i wish the president of the parliament of north macedonia all the best and thank him personally for the many initiatives he has taken in recent months to open up the country to europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, president of the assembly of north macedonia, honourable members of parliament, i would like to thank you for this discussion. i would also like to take the opportunity to thank commissioner hahn for his enduring commitment to the enlargement process. this discussion has further convinced me that our support for the western balkans, our support for their european perspective, is solid and enduring. in the light of the european council statement, they will revert to the issue of enlargement before the western balkans summit in zagreb in may 2020. it means that the work in the council continues, so we shall not give up the work. let me also recall that an agreement to open accession negotiations is only the first step in a very long process and, no matter how disappointed and frustrated i am personally, i would like to state that now is not the time to dwell on what happened last week. no matter how tempting it is, it is useless to point fingers and name and shame anyone, because now we must move forward. we must take further steps. we must now carefully consider the next steps in order to succeed in a process, which, in any case, is going to be long and require a lot of hard work from everyone. we, as the presidency, are now carefully taking stock of the situation, and then we will move forward. i would like to remain optimistic and hopeful, yet of course realistic as to the prospect in the next couple of months. i have full respect for the work accomplished by the two candidate countries, north macedonia and albania, so far. i would like to encourage them to continue in the same spirit and to deliver on reforms for the sake of their citizens. what is good for them, will be good – and is good – for europe. thank you very much for this discussion and for your attention.
in writing. it is regrettable that the european council last week, despite the support expressed by the majority of eu member states, did not vote to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, despite the fact that both countries have demonstrated their readiness to open negotiations. by doing so, the three blocking members in the council have undermined the prestige of the european union and its credibility in the eyes of the two balkan countries and many eu member states that support the accession process. this step threatens the stability of the western balkans, may lead to conflicts and at the same time affects the security of the european union, which also has an interest in enlargement. i hope that soon the leaders of the member states will be able to establish a common position on the opening of negotiations, as this is also in the interest of the european union.
the european union is founded on the principles of peace, stability and, above all, international cooperation, which we should continue to promote. for this reason, the refusal to negotiate with north macedonia and albania is a great disappointment both for us and, above all, for the countries themselves, especially after the considerable efforts made by both sides to move closer to the european union. the council's decision undermines the international credibility of the european union and causes a loss of confidence among the citizens of these countries. both countries have shown their willingness to integrate into the european union and meet our criteria, and therefore we are harming them and ourselves by refusing to negotiate further.
in writing. unfortunately, the eu member states have not been able to reach an agreement on the opening of accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. these are countries with unstable situations and with high expectations for the european union. it is important that we do not lose the trust of the peoples of the region in the union. they have fulfilled their obligations, the union must fulfil its promises and the green light for the opening of accession negotiations with skopje and tirana must be given as soon as possible. this delay calls into question the union's credibility in the western balkans and will have long-term negative consequences.
in writing. the suitability of north macedonia and albania for the opening of accession negotiations is beyond dispute. i therefore regard the european council's decision to postpone the process as a major strategic error. this step risks the credibility of the union, the political stability of the region and sends a negative message to the other candidate countries. moreover, there is a risk that the decision will lead to an increase in the activity of other geopolitically significant players in the region. i would like to stress that the western balkans region is of paramount importance to the european union. therefore, instead of procrastinating, there is a need to accelerate accession negotiations for both north macedonia and albania and serbia and montenegro. the eu is not a victim of enlargement, but a stakeholder in it. the union is therefore damaging itself by delaying the decision, which is unacceptable to me as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. – adhering to the idea of the european project, the western balkans are continuously making efforts to get closer to the eu. throughout the years, albania and north macedonia have achieved a significant progress with reforms which eventually led to a positive outcome by the european commission, calling member states to agree to start pre-accession negotiations. the council had the key role in moving on to the next step – to greenlight the opening of the pre-accession talks with the two countries from the western balkan region. nevertheless, the lack of unanimity in the council led to a decision, which can be considered as a mistake for the eu. the refusal of opening the negotiations, also discouraged the pro-european society in the western balkans, by showing that such serious decisions can be blocked easily. the economic, social and geopolitical consequences of closing the door to the western balkans are too high. for that reason we must show publicly and vocally that we continue to support and work towards a european future for the region.
in writing. – the decision of the european council to postpone, once more, the opening of the negotiations with north macedonia and albania is deeply disappointing. first and foremost for these countries. they have made considerable efforts to comply with the conditions we set, and yet they are again left waiting. it is equally disappointing for pro-european reformists, in the western balkans and beyond. for instance in the republic of moldova, where the new government is conducting ambitious reforms that will make more tangible the country’s european perspective. yes, we need clear criteria for enlargement and we need mechanisms to ensure they are fulfilled. but, for some member states, the accession process was a cornerstone of democratisation and of a strong reform of the justice system, in full compliance with the rule of law. it was also an open gateway to building citizens’ trust in the european union and adherence to its values. therefore, we must not shut doors. the dilemma ‘deepening of the union versus its enlargement’ is not new. but it should not be a pretext not to deliver on our promises, and it should not be used in a way that stifles the efforts of pro-european forces in our neighbourhood.
mr. president, i must admit that i am outraged and horrified. i was horrified and outraged, because i could not imagine that in the 21st century such barbaric forms of violence could be used. i'm a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, and when i see so much violence unleashed against people who have nothing to protect themselves, i think what evil mind could do this. secondly, i am still outraged and horrified, because the right to freedom of expression, a fundamental right of every citizen of this world, is being knowingly violated in the 21st century, a century that we want differently. but let's look to the left and to the right, and inside and outside the european union -- because i see these kinds of situations repeated in many places around the world, and maybe we can all get together, the council of europe, the european commission, the elected european representatives, to do a reactive situation simulation in such a circumstance, so that such abominable acts do not happen again. i am outraged and horrified and i ask all of you who have stood up to this hour in the hall to find a common attitude so that such things do not happen again.
mr president, i will try to be brief, but when i talk about health, especially as a doctor, an emergency doctor, i have already told you, in iasi, at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, where a hospital, a collective, a city do emergency and neurosurgery at european level, it is very difficult to do this. but on the other hand, yes, let's talk about health as a fundamental right, and then there are two barriers that stand in the way of this desire: the educational one and the economic one. and in my view, health education should be taught in schools so that each of us knows what we need to do to promote a healthy lifestyle, and i don't just mean the environment. on the other hand, the economic barrier is a big problem for us and perhaps we should consider today, together with the european commission, with the council of europe, to introduce that european standard of quality in health care so that they can be treated in iasi as in brussels, strasbourg, paris and rome. at least as regards a european women's health programme for the early diagnosis and treatment of the most common cancers, such as cervical and breast cancer, a european programme for reproductive health and free provision of tests for mothers and newborns, a european programme to combat cancer and the european civil protection mechanism. i'll talk more, but remember, there are only ten people in this room, and we're talking about health.
mr president, the issue of the 21st century is respect for human rights, because if they are not respected, this century will not exist at all. i note with concern that some countries are going back to the middle ages and that fundamental rights, such as the right to life, to education, to health, to freedom of expression, are being violated, as in a dark ages. i am asking the future european commission, the current parliament and the council today to find a set of common measures and clear criteria so that such things do not happen again and to have a united attitude when these rights are violated, whether in the european or extra-european space, because, as you know, sometimes we see more of the speck in another's eye than the beam in our own. it is time to take a firm stand so that this european parliament, the newly elected ones, together with the new commission, make this 21st century a century in which human rights are truly respected.
mr. president, it is enough for good men to do nothing for evil to triumph, warns edmund burke. what the situation in egypt warns us about is that the line between democracy and dictatorship is extremely thin. but what worries me today in the european parliament is that for years certain things have been known and they have not been resolved. we can complain about human rights violations, we can come up with beautiful resolutions, but without concrete action, things are not going to change for the better. that is why i am asking you today for some strong points that the future commission will take into account: the release of political prisoners and the abolition of the death penalty, which has no place in the 21st century.
mr president, there are three things that are of great concern to us at this moment in relation to the situation in indonesia. i'm talking about the blasphemy law first of all - it's unbelievable that in the 21st century someone can be convicted for religious belief; those abusive laws against women years of heavy jail time and curtailing of fundamental rights in terms of the destination of the body and what everyone should do in terms of health issues. and the long list of those on the podium of those who are sentenced to death is another issue to consider. i think that firm measures are needed: the first two points (blasphemy law and law against women) must be suspended, and at least a moratorium on the death penalty in this country must be introduced at this time. and i hope that the next european commission will do something about it, and the european parliament, through all its members, must support this.
mr president, the european union has had a partnership and cooperation agreement with indonesia in place since 2014, and now we have this situation on the table: a new criminal code to replace the current one, with articles that flagrantly violate the rights of women, religious minorities, sexual minorities, freedom of expression and association. we also have legislation that greatly weakens indonesia's anti-corruption framework. and i ask you in all honesty: is it not time to adopt magnitsky legislation at european level? and does not the fact that we turn a blind eye make us complicit in the flagrant and repeated abuses of these third countries with which we continue to have partnerships and economic agreements, does not make us complicit with the dictators whose money continues to pour into the european union? and i would like to ask my colleagues something else: in the renew resolution there was a paragraph that referred to freedom of the press and the importance of journalists not being physically abused. the joint resolution no longer contains this paragraph. where is our honesty, dear colleagues?
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this important debate under this oral question. the commission considers that its high ethical standards would be best enforced in the european banking authority (eba) and more generally across all the agencies by putting in place a harmonised legal framework. this commission, and i might also speak on behalf of the incoming european commission, will also be taking into account the debate and the outcome of this debate here in parliament when looking at and reviewing the post-employment ethical regulations. under the existing legal framework, it is the responsibility of the eba board of supervisors to implement this legal framework by independently taking decisions on post-employment restrictions in accordance with its founding regulations. it is also the responsibility of the eba board of supervisors and of the eba to check and enforce these restrictions.
the debate is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 october 2019.
- good afternoon. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to greet the presidents of parliament who have preceded me and who are here with us today, in particular president enrique barón crespo, who was in office on the day the berlin wall fell. thirty years ago, germany and europe were living through one of the most important and significant pages in their recent history. after decades of suffering, the lacerating wound of the division of germany and europe was finding its composition through the fall of its most obvious and odious symbol. finally, the wall fell under the pressure of thousands of women and men, eager to regain their freedom and dignity after years of oppression and deprivation of their basic rights. i would like to remind you that the success of that night was the result of the determination of millions of eastern european citizens who peacefully, without any violence, but only through the force of their own reason, were able to free themselves from the yoke to which they had been subjected for decades. it is also to the courage of those european citizens that i wish to pay tribute today. the witness of those moments was the amazement and joy of hundreds of thousands of german citizens on both sides and, alongside them, thousands of young people who had come from all over europe to share the overwhelming enthusiasm of those hours. i was among those young people in those days, along with many of you, and i remember the unstoppable happiness, the hugs, the tears, the incredulous gaze of the vopos as they watched their world crumble at the same speed as the wall fell apart under the blows of the picks. i also remember well the awareness, deeply rooted in all of us, that we were living a unique and unrepeatable moment in history which was finally closing a dark page, made of oppression, of mourning, of the cancellation of freedom and of personality, and opening another one full of optimism, of hope. today, 30 years after the fall of the wall, we can say that that enthusiasm and that hope have not been betrayed: if the europe we live in today is a better place, we owe it to the european union and the achievements it has been able to achieve. i want to make this clear: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the european union. that is why we must all be committed and determined to defend them. this is a fight we must wage every day, without stopping. as a witness to those extraordinary days in berlin, i cannot help but look with great concern at the return to europe of ghosts we thought were dead, buried under the weight of history. it is with disbelief, but also with immense anger, that we find ourselves witnessing the demon of anti-semitism reappearing in our europe today. the unfortunately very numerous episodes of recent history come to mind, and i think, and we think, of what happened in halle just a few weeks ago, the desecration of the jewish cemetery in randers in denmark, the threats made to senator liliana segre in italy. the resurgence of anti-semitism is the result of the resurgence of nationalism, xenophobia, racism, the rejection of everything that is different from us. these phenomena are also the breeding ground for terrorism, which threatens europe and the whole world with acts of violence. today marks the anniversary of the tragic events at the bataclan, a story that belongs to us, a story that we have lived together, and our heartfelt remembrance goes out to the 130 victims who lost their lives that night and to their families. the threat to our values also comes from outside. we are forced to confront daily interference which seeks to undermine in various ways our achievements and the security of european citizens. we need to stick together. we stand united to respond to these attacks, to strengthen our union, to secure our borders. it is against these threats that we must fight with great determination and firmness if we are to fulfil the promises made that night in berlin when the wall came down. i am convinced that this is a battle that we can only win if we stand together. and we must do this by opposing with all our strength those who falsify the facts of history, who give simple answers to complex problems, who confuse the legitimate pride that each of us feels for our country, for our country and our culture, with hatred and contempt for others. it's not an easy battle. we often wonder how it is possible for a european citizen today to forget the lessons of the history of our continent and of our forefathers. a story full of glorious pages, but also of suffering and horror, like the ones i was recalling earlier. the answer i find is that of the need to insist on knowledge and memory and i refer, in particular, to the younger ones who have not experienced that story, but have learned it perhaps from books or on the net or on the internet. it is to them that i wish to address myself at this moment with particular affection, because it is in them that we place our hopes. today i want to, we want to make our contribution to this challenge. we do so in the presence of the president of the bundestag, wolfgang schäuble, whom we have the honour of having here today to commemorate what happened in berlin 30 years ago. i call you, mr president. i'll speak to you after listening to a piece of music that will be the introduction to this ceremony. we will be joined by a young belgian musician, liav kerbel, who will play a saraband by johann sebastian bach. the cellist entering. a video projected on the screens shows mstislav rostropovich playing johann sebastian's sarabande at the berlin wall on 11 november 1989. the video ends when the musician starts playing. sarabande, suite no. 2 for cello in d minor by johann sebastian bach (4 minutes)
president of the german bundestag. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. nothing has to stay the way it is. on november 9, 1989, i realized what that meant. the will of my countrymen for freedom in the gdr was stronger than the berlin wall. thirty years ago, citizens throughout central and eastern europe took their destiny into their own hands. the transformative force that unfolded reached what for decades seemed inevitable: the fall of the berlin wall, the tearing down of the iron curtain across europe. anyone who has ever lived through this moment will never forget it. and those who see the images of that time still feel the power of the emotions that are associated with it, this moment of happiness, a historical moment that stands alone. "we are flying into history" that's what the pilot of an american plane said to his passengers before landing in berlin on the evening of november 9th. he couldn't keep the incredible news of the open battleships to himself, and he had a sense of their scale. the germans in the gdr, the people throughout central and eastern europe are liberating themselves from communist rule, from the soviet union's claim to power. nations found themselves back to being really people's republics because in them the citizens really did decide. democracy and the rule of law prevailed, human and civil rights were enshrined, the market economy replaced the planned economy and, although there was no master plan for this, the process of european unification brought together 500 million people in the east and west in a peaceful development for the good. this is unprecedented in history. so we're keeping in mind what's possible when people come together to stand for something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am honoured by your invitation and have gladly followed it to speak to you about the fall of the wall and the happy historical turn for all europe about the courage of those who demonstrated in many places in the gdr, who exerted pressure on the rigid state and party leadership at great personal risk, who demanded reforms and freedom rights or who left everything for their freedom and fled to the west in thousands and not least achieved that this revolution in germany remained peaceful, as well as those in most other neighboring states, whether we remember them as samten or as singing revolution. it's amazing how it happened. and it is indeed cause for celebration! in the cold war, on the western side of the iron curtain, sympathy had been extended to dissidents and oppositionists charter 77, solidarność and other civil rights movements, in which the brave few had initially gathered. their example encouraged others until it became the mass protests that swept away the old regimes in 1989/90. the west had a direct hand in this success - not least because of the double decision of nato, which pushed the weakened soviet union to divert and negotiate. the courage of the people in the east and the firmness of the west, both of which helped to bring the cold war to an end 30 years ago. the opening of the wall came as a surprise, but it was not without its precursors: the election of a pole as pope and his powerful visit to his homeland, the powerful polish trade union movement, the candlelight demonstration in bratislava, the 650-kilometre human chain across the baltic and, not least, the great humanitarian gesture of the hungarians at sopron in the summer of 1989 when they arbitrarily opened the border these and other signs pointed to change. father imre kozma of the hungarian malteser aid service, who was caring for refugees from the gdr at the time, summed up the change in people's attitudes during these eventful months: those who had learned to fear suddenly no longer feared. not even in the gdr. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the legal affairs committee - the body responsible for civil rights in your parliament - met in berlin from 8 to 10 november 1989 in the reichstag building, directly opposite the wall. the european parliament's resolution on the future of the european union and the european union's role in the world is a welcome step towards a new era of peace and stability. they were as unprepared as any of us for an event that would change the world. the parliamentary committee reacted as parliamentary committees do: it adopted an opinion. the declaration states that the events in berlin are to be welcomed. what a contrast to the euphoria of the people! during the night and the following days, hundreds of thousands of people marched, cheering and marveling, through the berlin border crossings, the checkpoints between the gdr and the federal republic. wild strangers were lying in arms 28 years after the wall was built, which was in fact a death strip. at least 140 people lost their lives here. we won't forget them! we do not forget the suffering of their families and the many other victims of the decades of dictatorship in eastern europe. the fact that the members of the european parliament's committee were visibly restraining their joy may also have had something to do with the fact that at the time no one knew whether the wall would finally be history. in our minds - our minds - there were images of the violent repression of the protests: 1953 in the gdr, 1956 in hungary and 1968 in czechoslovakia. the tanks that went off when martial law was imposed in poland in 1981 were still fresh in the minds of the people, and the violent end to the student protests in tiananmen square in beijing in the summer of 1989 was still fresh in the minds of the people. the european events are once again shining in a particularly bright light against this background. the courage of the people, their loud demand for reform, for a voice or for a change of power, had shaken the communist regimes to their foundations. they knew full well the consequences of showing weakness. some continued to believe that they had to prove their strength by being particularly tough. others were no longer able to do so. as different as the citizens' movements were within and between themselves, their criticism of the ruling party, their many voices demanding and expecting political change, all of them were united by the goal of overcoming the lack of freedom: to shake off permanent control, to get rid of arbitrariness, to break down the boundaries, to leave behind the prospects of the imprisoned. who among the young people of europe today can even imagine that for generations real freedom was a dream that seemed impossible to achieve? today, as citizens of the european union, we can freely decide in a large democratic legal area how we live, where we live, study, work and trade. everyone is free to express his opinion, however deviant. the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia in the european union. a dream that has come true. we germans know that without european unity, without the desire of europeans to grow together in east and west, there would be no german unity. the one was the prerequisite for the other, both are two sides of the same coin. the four victorious powers made the state unity of germany possible by giving us what we could not claim: their trust. the european community, like our immediate neighbours, has also been able to do so, despite the wounds inflicted on the continent by the second world war unleashed by germany. we germans will never forget this proof of reconciliation! the political change of 1989-90 gave a considerable boost to the process of european unification over the past 30 years. the long-planned single market and economic and monetary union were pushed further, leading to the enlargement of the european union to include the re-established democracies of central and eastern europe. we share the same values that we have long hoped would lead to unchallenged victory. that turned out to be an illusion. instead, our democracies are facing global competition from authoritarian systems that advertise themselves with a high level of efficiency and prosperity, but without giving their citizens what we take for granted in the west: freedom and social justice, progress and sustainability, democracy, the rule of law, universal human rights - all of which make europe worth living in and a place of longing for many people around the world, which by the way still makes authoritarian rulers around the world nervous, because it is obviously still highly attractive. sometimes it seems that we are the ones who doubt it the most. many people - especially those who once took to the streets to demand freedom and expression - are not satisfied, not because they do not value freedom or democracy, but rather because the transitions from dictatorship to democratic compromise are always chaotic, as british historian timothy garton ash once observed. there's pain associated with seizures. what does the west have to offer? this is the question that the polish poet czesław miłosz asked long before the fall of the iron curtain. "freedom from something is a lot, but it is too little, it is much less than freedom to something", he wrote back then. what is freedom to something? we must constantly renegotiate the answer to this question, especially since freedom is not a value in itself. since the french revolution, we have known the triple bottom line: freedom requires equality and fraternity. this too is part of europe's heritage! it meets the needs of the people of europe. they do not live in a single space, but form a community with many different historical traits and national identities. in the west, few people have any idea what it means to have been subjected to dictatorship and foreign rule, sometimes twice. what is known here of the convulsions in which people in all the states of the former eastern bloc had to prove themselves in the years of upheaval that followed? for most people, the freedom gained in the change of system was accompanied by a deep cut, including pretences. while we are talking intensively about immigration issues throughout europe for good reason, people in the eastern parts of our continent are often much more moved by the experience of emigration and its far-reaching consequences. on the other hand, many people sometimes fail to understand the diversity of the original core of europe and the countries that have come together around it. the west is more than just rich and saturated, accustomed to peace and to democracy as a matter of course. the transition to a common europe in east and west remains a major challenge for all of us, especially in the face of the simultaneous rapid changes brought about by globalisation and digitalisation, by global migration and climate change, and by dissolving international obligations. all of this is creating new insecurities and fears in many people. the freedom which prevails in europe today after a century of terrible wars and the loss of humanity in dictatorships is not a mere illusion! it's the side effects, at best, it's actually the freedom of others that causes discomfort and rejection. the liberal europe is enormously diverse. but we still lack a common public, and we lack platforms to share across borders about what is common or what is dividing. it is only through exchanges that we can achieve a genuine pan-european perspective. we can all learn from each other, especially since east germans and eastern europeans are a little ahead of people in the west, because they have 30 years of experience in change processes. this is a valuable experience, especially since we realize that the advances of globalization and digitalization are not stopping anyone. at the political level, we can only really move forward if we perceive and acknowledge each other's perspectives more than before, not to adopt them uncritically, but to understand each other better and to be able to take joint decisions. we always tend to think that our own attitude is the only one that is right. this is the cause of many conflicts in europe. not only that, but sometimes it seems that the gap between east and west is widening. let us not, therefore, jeopardize the greatest achievement of the epochal change of 1989 - that is, the overcoming of the division of our continent! we will all play a role in this rapidly changing world only if we act together, if we defend common positions shared or at least supported by the people of the member states. we will only be able to set the tone and defend our values if we live up to them ourselves. and we will only be taken seriously if we substantially increase our joint efforts to bring stability to the conflict-affected regions within europe and in our neighbourhood. freedom can only be defended by those who know it and live it for themselves and who do not invoke it only on holidays. democracy is as important to the stability of society as wealth and prosperity. our values are the key to curbing the fragmentation of processes and creating a level playing field in global competition. but they are by no means self-evident, and certainly not unchallenged, even in our 21st century. jacques delors has left a warning legacy. he feared that the violent 20th century would bring a new nationalism and a rising individualism. both, he said, threatened the solidarity and social cohesion of the member states of the union, but above all the 'open universalism' and the capacity for tolerance which characterised our shared values and which were europe's heritage. we should remember the words of jacques delors: if the eu fails, this heritage is at risk of being lost. i think the warning is still valid! (applause from the centre) what delors could not have imagined, certainly not wanted: the eu is losing one of its biggest members in a painful process. and our continent is experiencing the return of war and violent border displacement on its eastern border. and even security partners within nato are behaving in ways that even critics of the alliance never thought possible. the rules-based international order is under pressure and this in an increasingly interconnected world where truth no longer counts and national egos are indulged, but where the most pressing questions of world food, migration, climate change and security can only be answered globally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this applies to the eu's external relations, but it also applies to the internal european cooperation. europe can only act if the member states cooperate. cohesion is a prerequisite for europe to become 'world-policy-capable', as jean-claude juncker has said. we must overcome narrow-mindedness, narrow-mindedness and fear. the fall of the wall and the 30 years since have shown that nothing has to stay the same. the most massive walls can fall, change is possible if we take them in hand. it's up to us. then europe can learn from the great world change of 1989/90: we are free to act boldly. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
thank you, president schäuble. i welcome the presence of so many visitors in the chamber, the presence of the finnish presidency and also of the president-designate of the council, mr charles michel. i greet the commissioners in office and also the president-designate, mrs ursula von der leyen. let us begin with the chairmen of the political groups, and i would like to give the floor to mr manfred weber, on behalf of the people's party.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i was 17 years old. a young person who gets to experience a lot of new things every day. but when i saw the tears in the eyes of my parents, my acquaintances and my friends, and when i saw the images on the television shows, first of the prague embassy then of the fall of the wall, i felt, we felt: here we are experiencing history. it was wonderful when the first compatriots arrived with the so-called trabbies in my home in lower bavaria. we felt intuitively that this is where things come together. as a german, i was deeply impressed when i saw people taking to the streets in leipzig, dresden and east berlin. i am deeply grateful to them for their courage, for their desire for unity in freedom, for their sense of citizenship. they created values that shape us to this day. citizens are the heroes of unity. their voices were heard because strong allies did not let them down. one of my first key political experiences was when ronald reagan stood at the brandenburg gate two years before the fall of the iron curtain and asked gorbachev to tear down the wall. the european community, nato and all its members have always been united on one point: the division of europe must be overcome. the support given to the germans by the americans and the europeans 30 years ago was a real gift. this advance of confidence was far from natural after two devastating world wars. we should always remember this confidence of our allies when we today - also in germany - sometimes discuss the future of europe in detail and critically. the friends of germany did not paint failure on the wall. they saw the future, they trusted, they were true statesmen and stateswomen in many ways. i'm not going to tell you. the way you negotiated the german unification treaty was historically and, more importantly, successfully. my political generation owes a great deal to you, theo waigel and helmut kohl. there were many concerns back then. i read it in the newspapers, i heard it at the university, in the store, when i was shopping. not everyone was enthusiastic about the developments at the time. but you weren't impressed by that, you showed leadership. your actions, your vision, were formative. thank you for that. we may need that guidance today. no one doubts today: german and european unity are inseparable. helmut kohl was always a german patriot. but he never left any doubt that a united democratic europe is our common task. he was committed to the european project, literally, to the last gasp. the fact that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament, that we have a european parliament. the father of german unity died in the european parliament. helmut kohl knew that the fall of the berlin wall was not a national, singular event, nor a national feat. we germans owe our unity in freedom to the courage of thousands of friends in eastern europe. politicians like lech wałęsa, václav havel and józsef antall also fought not only for the freedom of their own country but for the freedom of all europe. we should keep the spirit of peaceful revolution, the spirit of peaceful uprising, alive in our generation. today, many small people dominate political life. but today, especially, we are facing great challenges. the fall of the berlin wall teaches us that we can only achieve great things if we stand together in europe. europe is the key to a better, more livable future, and to do that we need to work on european awareness today. i love my homeland bavaria, i like being german, and i am a european at heart. we must not allow nationalists and populists to destroy this unity of identities. i like being european. let us renew european cohesion today as we lived it 30 years ago.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the s&d group. it was a moment of illusion, the illusion of hope. what happened that night changed the lives of the people of europe forever; the images of the euphoric crowd on the wall, the queues of people and the cars crossing back and forth were an explosion of happiness. the bipolar world in which europe had lived for decades, which seemed eternal and immovable, had collapsed, already at a significant date, because it commemorated two of the darkest episodes in our history: on the one hand, the anniversary of the night of broken glass when, on 9 november 1938, the nazis committed the first great massacre against the jews; and, on the other hand, in 1989 the half-century of the beginning of the second world war was completed. the fall of the berlin wall was the triumph of liberal democracies over the soviet blockade, and it ushered in a period of hope in which europeans believed that nothing could stop the expansion of human rights, free elections and the rule of law. within weeks, romania, bulgaria, and czechoslovakia, among others, got rid of their dictatorships and adopted the western model of parliamentary democracy. but thirty years later new walls separate the europeans. now these walls are ideological between nationalists and europeanists, territorial between the big cities and the rural world or class between rich and poor workers. while support for democracy is widespread in much of the world and, of course, in europe, populists are gaining ground, and this forces us to make a deep reflection to avoid returning to dark stages of our history. 1989 was a moment of hope and victory for the west and for the values we stand for. getting it wasn't easy. our biggest mistake is forgetting what it means to defend freedom. thirty years later, it is easy to forget that german reunification was fraught with uncertainties and misgivings. some thought that it would be such an immense economic and social effort for germany that it would put an end to the european locomotive and, consequently, to the european community. others warned of the danger of resurrecting an old enemy buried since world war ii. no one like helmut kohl was able to capture the feeling of the european partners. in his memoirs, he recalled the lack of support and confessed the following: 'among our european allies, there was only one who supported us resolutely from the first moment: the spanish president, felipe gonzález, who did not hesitate for a moment about what position he should take.' if it was possible in 1989, we must now also be able to respond to the uncertainties that threaten our model of coexistence. the european union is first and foremost peace, freedom and progress. let us walk with these values and make our union the most advanced model of integration and social justice, and may this anniversary serve to restore hope. in 1989 i was also a young woman, a little more than mr weber. i had just turned 15 - almost as young as my country's democracy - but i was beginning to build my political awareness and was aware that this was an important day in the history of europe. but i never imagined that today i would have the honour and the pride of representing the social democratic family in this european parliament. it is a great honor for me, but above all a great responsibility, to take the testimony of the men and women who built such an important moment for our political project and to guarantee peace, freedom and justice.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, in november 1989 i was 20 years old. i was a freshman in college and i was living under one of the most brutal communist regimes in central and eastern europe -- ceausescu's. we heard about the fall of the berlin wall only a few days after it happened, speaking on radio free europe, the radio that allowed us to illegally connect, at that time, to the rest of the world. on 9 november 1989, a wall dividing europe in two was torn down, and with it began, at least in europe, the end of a regime that had survived only by limiting the freedoms and rights of citizens by the state. the fall of the berlin wall had a domino effect. only a month and a half later, ceausescu's national communist regime was over. like other young people of my age, like other romanians, like other central europeans, we were thirsty for freedom, for democracy and for europe, because on the streets of timisoara, where the movements started in romania, or in bucharest, the protesters were already calling for europe. the goal of the vast majority of those who were in the streets was to return to the values of democracy and european civilization, as the timisoara proclamation says. if thirty years ago a wave of democratization was felt in europe and other parts of the world, for more than a decade freedom and democracy have been losing ground worldwide. more than half the world's citizens live in political regimes deprived of or partially deprived of fundamental freedoms, and in europe the temptation to rebuild walls continues to threaten us. and those of my generation who have lived with and without walls. we can't help but see the similarity. brexit, for example, means new barriers to trade and freedom of movement. i hope the british people who have always fought for a free europe will think twice before building new borders. the reaction of some when it comes to europe's migration challenges is to call for new walls. walls have no place on this continent, we do not want to build a fortress europe. we must rather build bridges and close partnerships with europe's neighbouring countries. my fellow citizens, walls are not just physical, they are also fear-imposed barriers to political freedom and prosperity. the political parties and authoritarian-minded leaders in europe who want their country or europe to flirt again with the dictatorship of the past must be stopped. european democracy and freedom must be defended by those who today have no hesitation in enjoying the benefits of membership of the european union but who reject its values. thirty years after the fall of berlin, we have a responsibility to defend the ideals and values for which that wall was destroyed: freedom, democracy, prosperity and the european union. in the coming months we will have to launch a europe-wide conference on our common future, involving all citizens of the european union, in order to lay the foundations of a new european project that will inspire confidence for the years to come, because i, as a romanian, cannot conceive of being romanian without being european in the same sense, and i am convinced that we all, regardless of our ideologies, feel this. and so why not express these things naturally and convey this feeling, the european project that we support?
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very sorry. the un convention on the rights of the child recognises that children should have equal opportunities in terms of access to education. in my view, the only way to help children who are excluded from education is to make education the focus of development policy, following a strategic decision. it is a sad fact that despite international conventions, according to unesco, 30 million school-age children are still out of school in sub-saharan africa alone. that's 25 percent of the time. it's in our common interest to do what we can to make sure that these children can learn. without education, madam president, there is no chance, no chance at all, of reducing poverty, of overcoming it. quality education is the foundation of democracy, peace, economic growth. we have to recognize that without expanding access to education, we have no chance of achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030. we can only effectively advocate for children's rights if we help them in the family environment, strengthen the family environment. helping children to get an education also gives their families a chance to improve their circumstances. if we really want a sustainable development policy for the 21st century, we have to reduce the numbers i mentioned by developing a development policy around education. this is a strategic issue. this is our unfinished business in the developing world. without education, you cannot overcome poverty.
madam president, 30 years ago, world leaders gathered in the united nations general assembly and made a historic commitment to children everywhere by adopting the convention on the rights of the child. although the convention is the united nations document ratified by most countries, the reality is not so much cause for celebration: one in four children in the european union, and in romania almost half of the children, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. 250 000 children are reported missing every year in the european union, 30 000 migrant and refugee children across the continent are most often victims of human trafficking and social exploitation. these are numbers that should make us ask ourselves if, in three decades, we have done enough to identify vulnerability and prevent it, if we have given the right attention to those who do not have the voice to speak up for themselves, and if we should not invest more in guaranteeing and protecting the fundamental rights to health care, education, decent living conditions, adequate food. for this reason, i personally have very high expectations of the child guarantee and will work hard to ensure that it is implemented properly and produces sustainable results.
mr president, i am convinced that 30 years ago this convention on the rights of the child was an important thing and i can also understand the celebrations of this day. but beyond the festiveness of this situation, we have to look very carefully, and i ask you today to re-examine the policy on children's rights. twenty-five million children living below the poverty line, commissioner jourová, is a figure that worries us. and when we talk about children's rights, i'm going to remind you that there are four fundamental directions. lack of access to education, lack of access to health, violence of all kinds and exploitation of all kinds should be fundamental problems. i think we must, and i ask you today to reorient policies on children's rights, and in terms of health, i am a doctor, i am an emergency doctor in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblue emergency clinical hospital, i ask you today, honourable commissioner, to draw up a european standard of quality in health and to make sure that the health of children in europe is provided free of charge. i believe it is possible and if we really want to secure the future of europe, these things must happen and i assure you that you have my full support to make these things happen.
mr president, i remind you that beyond steel we are talking about people and the greatest loss of romania after 1989 was precisely this deindustrialization, because if before 1989 50,000 people worked in a single steel plant, now 12,000 work in the entire romanian steel industry. let's think about concrete things and stop being hypocritical, because the things you've said are just a haircut of the situation. on the one hand, we need european development funds for the whole european steel industry and a single policy at european level, and yes, i am in favour of reviewing that state aid legislation. and we cannot say that we are allowing a type of steel from other countries, which does not comply with any rules, to enter the european market and we are paying for this ecological price amounts that are destroying our industry and, above all, destroying our people. i'm asking for action.
madam president, and again we're talking about double standards. i wonder what infringement procedures would have been triggered, what voices would have been raised through the council of europe, who and how would have fought against the rule of law if these things or less serious things had happened in an eastern european state. and when we talk about flagrant violations of international law, are we talking only about sanctions on individuals or on legal entities? let me be clear: when it comes to some, the walls are still standing 30 years after the fall of berlin, and when it comes to accession procedures and violations of international law, things can go on without any problems. can i be more specific? north macedonia has been waiting for 15 years at the gates of the european union, and romania still wants to enter schengen, and for some it is possible, and for others not, only because there are economic conditions. and by the way, commissioner, we romanians meet all the conditions. i ask you to enter schengen.
madam president, there are three things that i could not imagine in the 21st century: election fraud, military intervention in the electoral process, which means a coup d'état and violence. i am a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, the nicolae oblu clinic emergency hospital and i believe that human rights must be respected, especially in this century when their issue is becoming more and more topical - from the right to health to the right to free choice and the right to be protected when expressing your political opinions. and i congratulate you, mrs mogherini, for trying, through dialogue, to defuse a situation that is difficult to imagine, and on the other hand i still wonder how such a situation can be handled when it comes to intervening at the level of another state. if things are to be resolved, the healthy solution seems to me independent observers for new democratic elections, and if we talk about violence i think the same attitude should be taken every time, condemn it, whether we are talking about the army or about intervention in the electoral process, whether it happens in bolivia, whether it happens in european countries and especially in the west and not only there.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statement on international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists (2019/2878(rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that, in order to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, it will be possible to use both the standard registration and the new system allowing members to register electronically. therefore, i invite you to always bring your voting cards. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye, i invite you to do so starting from now, without waiting for the end of the debate. having said this, i open the debate. i am happy to welcome the presidency and i would like to give the floor immediately to ms tuppurainen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists was established in memory of the death of ghislaine dupont and claude verlon, two french journalists killed while reporting in mali on 2 november 2013. media freedom is an indispensable pillar of our democratic societies. journalists are among the guardians of properly-functioning democracies. they act as public watchdogs, helping to inform and empower citizens. where there is no freedom of speech there is no democracy. for this reason, freedom of expression, media freedom and pluralism are guaranteed in the eu charter of fundamental rights. yet across the globe, journalists face risks and attacks simply for carrying out their work. too often investigations into violence or threats of violence against journalists and media outlets are slow, incomplete and fail to bring the offenders to justice. 31 journalists have been killed worldwide in 2019 alone; more than 800 in the last decade. in 9 out of 10 cases, the killers go unpunished. impunity is the key obstacle to ensuring journalists’ safety, resulting in self-censorship and a chilling effect on the exercise of freedom of expression. the investigations and judicial proceedings following the horrific and unacceptable killings of maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia and slovak journalist ján kuciak have to this day not been concluded. these crimes have shocked european public opinion. the european parliament has made clear in its resolutions on media pluralism and media freedom in the european union that we have a duty to guarantee the freedom of expression and of the press, including the safety and security of journalists. we note the call of this assembly on member state authorities to ensure the protection of investigative journalists from any form of intimidation, defamation charges, threats or physical attacks, as well as to create a permanent financial scheme in support of independent investigative journalism. on behalf of the council, i can say that we are aware of the responsibility our governments have to protect journalists and different media freedom. we will continue with all appropriate means possible to respect and protect freedom of expression. the council held a dialogue on media pluralism and the rule of law in the digital age in november 2017. the related presidency conclusions reflected the importance of the issue and repeated the commitment by the council and the member states to secure a safe working environment for journalists as part of their duty to uphold fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this is an important opportunity to recall and mark this day, to recall its origins that have just been set out, and to underline what it stands for. we believe freedom of expression is a fundamental human right that should apply for everyone, everywhere. an environment where journalists are free to report on any topic, on all platforms, without censoring themselves, is the key to media freedom. but today, journalists’ safety is not guaranteed, even – as we just heard – in europe, as far too often journalists and media workers find themselves attacked, persecuted, harassed or intimidated for carrying out their work. again, we’ve just heard some striking figures: in 2018 alone, 94 journalists and media staff were killed across the globe in work-related incidents, as reported by the international federation of journalists. hundreds more have been subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention without ever having been tried in court. according to unesco, only 10% of the 930 cases of killings of journalists from 2006 to 2016 worldwide have as yet been resolved. impunity for these crimes – getting away with these crimes – multiplies their impact. it erodes democratic societies by fuelling fear, mistrust and anxiety. so what are we trying to do about this? respect for freedom of expression is integrated in all our policies and our development programmes. the eu provides support and legal assistance via the mechanism for human rights defenders, a network that delivers fast response for human rights defenders under threat, including covering journalists. the eu also supports the european centre for press and media freedom and the media pluralism monitor. in 2019 a series of pilot projects will foster cooperation between journalists and self-regulatory bodies, fund cross-border investigative journalism and increase support for journalists who find themselves under threat. the commission has proposed to include a dedicated budget in the next mff as part of the creative europe programme. the commission has also spearheaded work to counter online incitement to violence and hatred by means of the code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech. on this too, the eu is currently transposing new legislative provisions in the directive on audiovisual media services. in these and other ways, we consistently stand up for the themes symbolised by this day, and we oppose, in bilateral contacts with third countries, as well as in multilateral and regional discussions, any legislation, regulation or political pressure that does not respect international human rights standards on freedom of expression. simply proclaiming the right to freedom of expression is not enough – it is not sufficient. states must also fulfil their obligation to protect freedom of expression and the safety of journalists by providing an enabling legal environment, by taking criminal threats against journalists seriously, and by vigorously prosecuting actual attacks. as has just been recalled, the recent assassinations of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, and indeed of the saudi national, jamal khashoggi, show, sadly, that no part of the world is immune to such crimes. the commission recently highlighted the fundamental role of journalists and free and pluralistic media in promoting and upholding the rule of law in its communication on strengthening the rule of law within the union of july this year. and again, on the actual international day, on 2 november, in her declaration, the high representative paid tribute to all those who lost their lives and suffered attacks in the exercise of their freedom of expression online and offline. the eu firmly condemns the increase in crimes against journalists, both offline and online in cyberspace. the commission, on the particular case that's already been raised, has called on the maltese authorities, in the case of mrs caruana galizia, to ensure that justice is done. after all, a functioning democracy cannot thrive without free, diverse and independent media. madam president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this very important theme today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the defence of a free media is not something that can or will lose significance today, or ever. without an unshackled media we would only have the illusion of a proper democracy, a mockery of how the rule of law should function. the media is the gatekeeper, the body that separates fact from fiction. so when shadowy multinationals, illicit banks and unscrupulous politicians implicated in serious money-laundering and corruption activities start to abuse the courts to go after our journalists, the attack is serious. when journalists are assassinated it is an attack on all of us. and it would be impossible, as we have just heard, to speak today without paying tribute to the courage and resolve of daphne caruana galizia. daphne was assassinated two years ago. the masterminds behind her assassination remain at large. the subjects of her investigations remain protected from investigation at the highest political levels. it is not acceptable. this is outrageous! and specifically, we need to protect journalists – not only from physical harm, but from vexatious lawsuits. we need an eu anti-slapp law and we need to make eu funds available to media houses so that they can fight their corner. media freedom is a cornerstone of our european societies and more than a fundamental right, it is a fundamental rule of the way we are governed. it is as important as an independent judiciary and should be seen as such. and this saturday, in valletta, malta and gozo will be out in the streets demanding better.
madam president, when journalists are targeted, the whole of society pays the price. it is not me who says this, it is antónio guterres, on the occasion of the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists, on 2 november. in the last 12 years, more than 1,000 journalists have been killed simply for doing their job. this represents an average of one death every four days. in 2018 alone, the international federation of journalists counted 94 murders of journalists or media workers. these people were murdered for exercising a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the universal declaration of human rights, article 19. while the european union has also seen journalists murdered on its own territory, it has been said that maltese, slovak and bulgarian journalists have been murdered. what is the european union's action plan to combat these crimes? europe must also defend its values more vigorously abroad: what response has europe given to saudi arabia following the murder of mr khashoggi? finally, how to fight against the media that become organs of propaganda, because we know that when these media that become organs of propaganda, are owned by the government or are owned by financial forces and powers, it is impossible for independent workers and independent journalists to carry out their work in complete freedom. again, what can the european union do to support and guarantee the independence of the media, both within and outside its territory?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, on 2 november we celebrated the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists. last year, indeed, 94 journalists lost their lives for having the courage to write about corruption and abuse of power. last february, slovak journalist ján kuciak was gangster-style murdered along with his partner, and last month we marked two years since the death of daphne caruana galizia, two years in which the judiciary has failed to identify those who ordered this assassination. these crimes took place in the european union, here, where we claim to guarantee the freedom and safety of journalists. i had daphne's son, matthew caruana galizia, with me at that memorial, right here in the european parliament, along with 40 other journalists from across europe, and i have to tell you that it was hard for me to look him in the eye as a politician, because all of us here have done very little to stop crimes against journalists. criminals still remain at large, and uncomfortable journalists are constantly harassed with long and expensive lawsuits built by professional law firms. daphne's family has inherited nearly 30 such defamation suits filed against her for daring to speak the truth. we need to do much more for journalists, we need to support them with anti-slapp legislation, with funding and mechanisms to respond quickly in case of threats or pressure. yes, journalists investigate politicians, but those who have no reason to worry about looking back on their past support freedom of the press and understand the importance of the right to information and the protection of those who tell the truth with dignity, courage and honesty, independent journalists. commissioner king, you mentioned those pilot projects about financing independent investigative journalists. as a technocrat, i wrote one of those projects myself and it got an a from the commission. it needs to become a permanent fund for investigative journalists and we need anti-slapp legislation.
madam president, whoever attacks a journalist attacks our right to freedom of expression and especially our right to information and will never succeed in doing so. i adopt today and have always adopted the words of voltaire: "i do not necessarily agree with everything you say, but i will always be the one who will defend to the death your right to say it". and indeed, investigative journalism is becoming increasingly difficult to do in europe, in europe, where we would not expect such abominable acts to be, and fallen journalists are a testament to what they say today. investigative journalists are being harassed economically, they're being harassed legally, and even physical assault is seen to be increasingly common. i'm, i told you, a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, and i'm always looking for concrete solutions. so on the one hand, i have tabled a bill in the romanian parliament that very clearly stipulates that two percent of the damages recovered from a journalistic investigation should go to the person who makes this investigation, because the economic pressure is extremely high and, often of an economic nature, they cannot resist. secondly, we need to look for legal solutions, for legal aid at the european level, and i think that creative program can be a solution to stop journalists being harassed legally. and if we talk about aggression, let's think about it, it's a project that i proposed in the romanian parliament, it was about emergency doctors who are often attacked, to frame, to give a new legal framework to the assault of the journalist on duty, the one of outrage, if you want similar to the policeman or the gendarme, so that any such acts do not go unpunished. i welcome your presence today and hope that we are not left with empty words, because unity in diversity means also the right to free expression.
madam president, as a former journalist, i very much cherish the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists around the world and i want to pay tribute to those who were killed while trying to find out the truth, and because of that. journalists and their work are essential for any healthy democratic society. i want to take this opportunity to stress that their vital mission is not only hampered when journalists are killed or imprisoned but that also, very often now, their daily lives and work are being made difficult in many ways. reporters without borders published their flagship annual world press freedom index in april this year, revealing that worldwide, authoritarian regimes continue to tighten their grip on the media. europe itself, according to the document, has its share of incidents, with the work of investigative reporters being obstructed more and more. european journalists are subject to many forms of pressure, intimidation and, increasingly, to judicial harassment. i myself, as a former journalist, as i said, know many cases and witnessed various obstacles, from threats to violence, in the daily work of my fellow colleagues from romania, with basically none of these incidents being punished or even investigated. therefore, we must never forget the importance of journalists, the increasingly dangerous environment they are working in and we must find an efficient way to protect them, because we need the truth.
madam president, this is tudor ciuhodaru, physician, emergency physician in iasi, romania, nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital, a city, a collective, a hospital where the exact time is given in emergency medicine. in 2015, i received the most beautiful gift of my birthday, my offer to volunteer for ebola was accepted, being shortlisted after a selection of thousands of applicants, being considered one of the most suitable and well-trained people to intervene in emergencies. it was a tragic situation at the time: 94 medical personnel had lost their lives, and there was only one doctor for every 100,000 inhabitants. i think that at this time we have to ensure two essential things: on the one hand health education, because without that knowledge, skills, abilities, and you know that ebola depends very much on compliance with hygiene rules and not only, things will not be able to develop favorably and that this health education should become a priority in schools in europe, and on the other hand, the economic barrier that you are making considerable efforts for. and also, human resources are not negligible, and that medical staff is a very important thing, because we don't live under a glass bell. and look, similar situations are happening in europe: recently there's an epidemic alert on the northern border of romania, in ukraine, related to diphtheria. so once again, commissioner, i offer once again, commission, and the willingness to volunteer in such situations, but think that that european standard of quality in healthcare has to become mandatory.
madam president, the other day the president of a founding country of nato and the european union declared that nato is a perishable organization. i would remind you that nato has guaranteed for 70 years collective security, and today nato is fully operational. and what role does the european army play? the european union will not create a new army but will diminish nato's military capabilities, reducing the credibility and deterrence of the organization. paradoxically, most nato and eu member states do not contribute two percent to the defense budget, but instead seem to be ready to build a new army at enormous expense. the truth is, there's a difference between security when you have the borders on the atlantic and you have the borders on the baltic and the black sea, where you have to deal with the unpredictable putin. personally, i believe that nato is the organization that guarantees our security, independence and freedom.
madam president, we talk more and more about fighting climate change, but we do not pay enough attention to the most important weapon we have in this fight, namely the european union's forests, which sequester most of the carbon dioxide emissions. at the moment, although almost half of the union's land is covered by forests, 77% of it is uncultivated and not yet subject to binding common legislation, as the european commission itself acknowledges in the question i recently put to it. and in these forests, there are sometimes literally life-and-death wars. in romania, for example, six foresters have been killed and 650 others injured in clashes with the timber mafia in recent years. so how can we think about winning the war on climate change? i think it is extremely important that in the future european green deal, the commission and the commissioner in charge of this portfolio should think about an effective funding regime, a tough strategy and drastic monitoring systems for our forests, a strategy that is mandatory in all the member states of the european union.
mr president, bihac and vucjak are two hot spots on the european map this winter, two time bombs that can explode at any time, especially when we talk about the humanitarian and medical side. the 50,000 refugees, the 8,000 people who are left there, a third of them children, are a big problem for this country, for the authorities in sarajevo who have limited resources, and i believe that at this point we should think about three essential things. firstly, cross-border monitoring needs to be improved, and secondly, the funds allocated by all of us should be much larger to improve the living conditions of these people. and if we talk about human resources, i don't think it's important to send the police, frontex, over to them, but that european medical body, honourable council, honourable commission, should do its job. i'm a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, the emergency clinical hospital, and i volunteer to go there to help those same people. and if we talk about double standards, while a country that breaks the law is allowed to join schengen, romania, my country, which meets all the conditions, is waiting at the doors of the european union. so, honourable commission, honourable council, we meet all the conditions, i ask you again to enter schengen.
madam president, the european union must step up from its hitherto unhonorable expectation and act vigorously to stop illegal migration and to put an end to the loss of thousands of lives in the mediterranean. we have the means to do this and i propose that the european commission and the council urgently put in place a three-dimensional action plan. first, identifying and disrupting criminal networks that organise and transport migrants from the southern and eastern mediterranean to europe. secondly, the involvement of the naval forces of the member states which are engaged in the operation of stopping vessels at the territorial waters of the port of embarkation. and finally, third point, a very good selection of migrants, because some are war refugees and they defend their conventions.
madam president, unity in diversity, the motto of the european union must always mean two essential things: health and solidarity. i see that there are many pressing issues, many of them concerning the reproaches to the council and the commission, and that these things, especially from a medical point of view, have not been resolved. i'm a doctor, an emergency physician in iasi, romania, the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital, and i think we need to come up with a common solution, to re-examine such situations. you cannot leave the burden of this on the shoulders of a few countries alone, and on the other hand i am asking you today to draw up a new european humanitarian aid action plan because yes, look at how many problems there are. we are the 751 directly elected members of the european parliament who should be saying loudly that these problems must be solved and remember that whoever saves a life saves the whole world.
mr. president, i want zero tolerance for any form of violence against women. i am an emergency doctor and not once i treated in iasi at the nicolae oblu emergency clinic women assaulted, beaten, raped and i tell you today that rape also means violence. a woman raped every four hours is already too much for any european country, and to be truly effective these measures of prevention, combating, supporting victims, punishing the perpetrators must be the same throughout the european union. i support this resolution, which calls for all the countries of the european union to adopt the same legislative and political measures to combat these forms of violence, and i hope that this resolution will be voted on thursday. i will personally vote for it with nine hands and i also ask the council and the european commission to consider any rape as a crime and to have the same punishment because there is far too little talk about these abominable acts. thank you and i hope you will support this initiative.
in writing. in romania, more than 60% of us consider, according to unicef, that domestic violence is a common thing, that it is part of everyday life. we live in a country where domestic violence is considered routine. romania ratified the istanbul convention in 2016, but we are far from being effective in preventing and combating domestic violence. in bucharest, according to romanian police statistics, between january and august 2019, 5 096 temporary protection orders were issued, 1 850 of which were converted into definitive orders. seventy-seven percent of the cases were domestic violence. according to the 2018 inscop study, in romania, every 30 seconds a woman is beaten, so every day, almost 3,000 women are assaulted. according to the inspectorate general of police, in 2018 there were 32,696 cases of domestic violence. the women we're talking about here are not just statistics. we need concrete action to prevent violence against women, to protect victims and to punish perpetrators. we need to work, both internally and at the european level, in a real and coordinated way, not hypocritical and populist, like the mayor of bucharest, probably the only social democratic mayor in the world who stopped funding the only accessible emergency shelter for victims of domestic violence.
mr president, it is wonderful that mr hogan has managed to make these rules applicable to everyone and i wish that these things for the protection of farmers and the european system will always apply. and while i am noting this flexibility, i take this opportunity, honourable member, to refer to the agricultural subsidy. i ask you when you will show the same flexibility towards romanian farmers who only get half of the european subsidy. thank you. thank you.
in writing. 30 years since the velvet revolution: the importance of the struggle for freedom and democracy in central and eastern europe for the historic unification of europe madam president! 1989 was a privileged year in central and eastern europe. the wall that unnaturally separated the two halves of the continent collapsed, and with it, communism. the free world and a united europe would not exist in its present form if tens of thousands of young people and adults had not taken to the streets of berlin, prague, bratislava, thames and bucharest. they demanded change: freedom of speech, free expression, free and fair elections. many gave their lives, others risked their own safety and that of their families. let us remember the brave. since then, a generation has grown up that has no direct experience of a divided world and hopefully never will. the 30th anniversary reminds us that our european life, our democracy, prosperity and peace are not something to be taken for granted. freedom won't last forever and rights won can be threatened. so let's take care of our democracy, our freedom. it's up to us, all of us!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today is about brexit. i think that's one of the biggest challenges for the european union since the union was founded, and from my point of view i think it's a clear demonstration that populist forces and irresponsible politicians in the european union remain a threat to us. but beyond the political, economic and commercial effects, the people who will be hit hardest by brexit will be the european citizens of the united kingdom. they need our support and protection. it is the duty of parliament and the commission to report in real time any misconduct, any breach of the labour rights of our citizens. i would point out that there are over three hundred thousand romanian citizens working in the uk. i also believe it is essential that we do not accept any compromise that affects the status of our citizens in the uk, but we should also not unfairly penalize britons who have chosen to work in one of the countries of the european union. our founding principles must triumph in the face of these challenges as well. it's the only way we can hope that britain will perhaps one day give up on the path of leaving the european union.
romania became a member of the european union in 2007. for 12 years we have been a full member of a union in which all countries are theoretically equal, and yet we are a second-rate country. the romanians and bulgarians are still held at the gates of europe. our citizens, european citizens, are standing in endless queues when they have to cross the border into europe. romanian and bulgarian companies keep their goods at the border for hours, sometimes even days, in order to enter what should be the common market, which adds additional costs to the products of our countries. we are talking about the free movement of european citizens, the free movement of goods, but this movement is not exactly free for romanians and bulgarians. it has been too many years since we were denied the right to be included in the schengen area. how long must we stay at the gates of europe? when will there be serious discussions about the truly free entry of romanians and bulgarians into the united territory of europe?
ladies and gentlemen, we are following the situation in hong kong with great interest these days and of course we support the student resistance to the creeping totalitarianism that is spreading from china into this still free zone. in czechoslovakia, 30 years ago, students were also the driving force. it is clear that education and freedom go together, and so does a sense of responsibility for what is happening around us. that's always been true everywhere. an educated person who is acquainted with certain values is a legitimate enemy of the totality. in europe and china. i therefore want the european parliament to make it clear that it stands behind the forces in hong kong that are defending democracy and freedom. i want both hong kong and china to know that the european parliament recognises the results of the local elections and that china must recognise them too.
madam president, last week in brussels the presidents of the nine outermost regions of the european union, belonging to three member states: france, portugal and spain (spain by the canary islands, the land where i was born and live) met. they're fragmented, remote areas. most of these are islands and therefore need specific measures in their maritime, fisheries, agricultural and accessibility neighbourhood policies. but above all, they need support in the multiannual financial framework. because it is essential that the cofinancing rate, currently set at 85% but threatened to be reduced to 70% in the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework, be maintained, which is seriously detrimental to the sustainability of the public accounts of the outermost regions. it is essential that the good intentions of the proposed commissioner for cohesion and reform, elisa ferreira, translate into a real budgetary commitment to support these regions, which are the only ones named in the treaties establishing the european union.
madam president, at its foundation, democracy is about freedom and with that should come equality for all men and women to use the franchise at the ballot box to change their lives. the stunning landslide victory for pro-democracy candidates in the hong kong local council elections at the weekend is testament to that. after months of unrest, violent clashes and unlawful actions by the police towards protesters, the electorate spoke and they do not want to be ruled by, or from, china. this is particularly true for young people, who often led the protests whilst coming under attack from the security forces, and with the siege at polyu being particularly worrying and, as yet, still unresolved. i believe we must safeguard the sino-british joint declaration, which is key to the prosperity and stability of hong kong. finally, i’d like to thank the 50 plus meps who signed my letter to federica mogherini on the issue. i look forward to the commission’s response, outlining their engagement with all sides to ensure that peace and fundamental freedoms are maintained.
i would remind you, honourable members, that on 24 october 2019 i decided, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to impose a sanction on mr ciocca for his aggressive and disrespectful behaviour towards his colleagues and this institution, in serious breach of a code of conduct, during the discussion on the turkish military operation in north-east syria held on 23 october. on 6 november mr ciocca lodged an appeal. at its meeting yesterday the bureau considered the appeal and confirmed my decision. the sanction resumes today.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 12 and 13 december 2019 (2019/2722 ((rsp)). i would remind you that it is possible to submit requests for assistance under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure and 'blue card' applications using both the 'standard registration' system and the electronic system. the instructions are available at the entrance to the hemicycle.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the december european council will be marked by a change of the guards, so to speak. it will be the first meeting to be chaired by president charles michel and, pending your approval of the new commission tomorrow, it will also be the first one for ms ursula von der leyen in her capacity as president of the commission, and for the new high representative, mr josep borrell. the agenda will be dominated by two pressing issues – climate change and the multiannual financial framework. let me start with climate change. you will all recall that in june the european council came close to an agreement on climate neutrality by 2050. however, a few member states felt they needed more time to assess the efforts and costs linked to the transition to climate neutrality before committing to such ambitious targets. the european council therefore asked the council and the commission to advance work on the conditions, incentives and the enabling framework, and pledged to finalise its guidance before the end of the year with a view to the adoption and submission of the eu’s long-term strategy to the united nations framework convention on climate change in early 2020. in december, the european council will aim to commit the eu to reaching climate neutrality by 2050 and identify the enabling framework that will allow us to reach that objective. the presidency has worked intensively with other member states and the commission in order to facilitate this decision. the discussion in this plenary yesterday again highlighted the need for the eu to act decisively in order to remain a world leader in climate issues. this brings me to the second topic on the european council agenda: the multiannual financial framework (mff). the finnish presidency will submit a finalised negotiation box with figures prepared on the basis of the exchange of views that took place in council preparatory bodies, as well as bilateral discussions with all delegations. we intend to submit the negotiation box in the coming few days. we are nearing the end stage of negotiations. i believe it’s in all our interest to reach an agreement on the next mff soon in order to make sure our citizens, regions, farmers, universities and other beneficiaries can continue their work uninterrupted. the presidency’s job in this respect has not been easy, the individual positions being wide apart. with the brexit cut. the status quo is not an option. we will have to pay more and, unfortunately, some will have to receive less. the leaders’ discussion therefore should identify the most important issues and prepare the ground for the future compromise. i am glad to say we have had many fruitful exchanges with parliament during the course of this process. in this plenary we have discussed the mff already and i am glad that we could organise an informal breakfast discussion last week in brussels between the member states and the negotiations of the european parliament. the member states found this exchange useful and timely. thank you very much for that. without going into full details of the presidency’s proposal, i am pleased to note that the positions of parliament and the council converge in several important areas. first of all, the next mff should be able to deliver on the policies set out in the strategic agenda – ambition on climate policy, commitment to just transition, increasing the investments to research and development and a comprehensive management of migration are just a few key policies the next mff will be able to address. as in the commission proposal, the presidency is committed to renewing and modernising the eu budget by giving modern programmes the largest share of eu funds. however, we also note the importance of cohesion policy to the unity and success of the union, as well as the need to devote sufficient funds to our farmers so that they can continue to develop sustainable agriculture. the presidency will also propose to make a strong link between protecting the eu budget from generalised deficiencies in the area of the rule of law, and furthermore new own resources should be decided in order to diversify the financing of the eu’s budget. we have no illusions that there will be disappointments in our proposal. that is inevitable in a process seeking to find common ground. not everybody can just get what they want, but it is our sincere belief that our proposal represents a balanced way forward. the european added value and our political priorities will guide us to deliver results over the next seven years. the european council will give further guidance to the union on the way forward, with the objective of reaching a final agreement. it is furthermore possible that leaders will discuss certain external affairs issues in the light of developments on the international stage. in any event, following the normandy format summit scheduled for 9 december in paris, the european council will assess progress in the implementation of the minsk agreements and decide whether to renew the economic sanctions against russia for another six months. as we also mentioned, there will be a euro summit in an exclusive format to take stock of progress made in the eurogroup on the implementation of the june euro summit statement. finally, brexit will again be on leaders’ agenda. on friday, the european council is expected to have a short meeting in its article 50 format. leaders will discuss the next steps in light of recent developments.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have to start by saying that this is the last time i come before you as stand-in for president jean-claude juncker, and i want to use that opportunity to thank him for his leadership over five years. but most of all, from my perspective, to thank him for his friendship, for his wisdom, for his wit, his endless source of anecdotes. jean-claude is, what in the jewish tradition is called, a mensch. and i will miss him, as i think we all will, and we owe him, i think, a big debt of gratitude for what he has done for europe in the last five years. (applause) es ist unsere chance und verpflichtung zugleich, die tagung des europäischen rates zu einem europäischen thursday and friday for future zu machen. wir sind es unseren kindern schuldig, mit unserem planeten sorgfältig umzugehen. denn dieser ist die grundlage für unser aller zukunft. europa hat sich deshalb als beitrag zum übereinkommen von paris dazu verpflichtet, die treibhausgasemissionen in der eu bis 2030 um mindestens 40 % zu reduzieren. doch europa kann, will und muss mehr erreichen. als europäische kommission werden wir uns dafür einsetzen, dass der europäische rat ein ehrgeizigeres ziel beschließt. europa sollte bis 2050 zu einem klimaneutralen kontinent werden. denn wir haben nicht nur verantwortung für die nächste generation, sondern wir müssen auch eine vorreiterrolle in der welt einnehmen. unsere europäische strategie muss ein signal an die klimakonferenz der vereinten nationen senden und andere vertragsparteien ebenfalls zu ehrgeizigeren zielen anspornen. für europa eröffnet dieser ehrgeiz auch eine wirtschaftliche chance. schließlich bedeutet ein klimaneutrales europa nicht, dass wir industrie oder autos abschaffen, sondern dass unsere fahrzeuge und unsere industrie zukunftsfit sein werden. wenn wir jetzt auf grüne und innovative technologien setzen, sichert das langfristig nicht nur unseren planeten, sondern auch unsere wirtschaft. es lohnt sich also für europa in jeder hinsicht, klima-weltmeister zu werden. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, est-il besoin de préciser que nos ambitions, aussi louables et nécessaires soient-elles, resteront lettre morte si nous ne disposons pas de moyens financiers suffisants pour les concrétiser? par exemple, pour atteindre les seuls objectifs de l’accord de paris, l’union européenne devra, chaque année jusqu’en 2030, débloquer des centaines de milliards d’euros d’investissements supplémentaires. c’est pourquoi nous nous sommes engagés à investir au moins 25 % de notre prochain budget, à long terme, dans les questions climatiques, et ce parce qu’il est de notre responsabilité de faire en sorte qu’il n’y ait aucun laissé pour compte de la transition vers une économie plus moderne, dotée d’un système énergétique plus européen et plus propre. en europe, cette transition sera faite, mais pour qu’elle réussisse, elle doit profiter à tous les européens et promouvoir la justice sociale, la cohésion économique, sociale et territoriale ainsi que la solidarité entre les états membres et entre les générations. notre boussole doit être l’avenir de nos concitoyens, de nos étudiants, de nos entreprises, de nos chercheurs, de nos régions, de nos villes et de nos campagnes. cet avenir n’attend pas, le temps presse. tout retard dans les négociations du prochain budget européen pour la période 2021-2027 risque de plus en plus de compromettre la mise en œuvre, en temps voulu, des politiques de l’union européenne. le conseil européen de décembre devra donc être l’occasion de donner une impulsion décisive à ces négociations afin que nous puissions parvenir à un accord en février 2020 au plus tard. en mai 2018, cette commission a fait le choix d’un budget raisonnable qui représente 1,11 % du revenu national brut de l’union à 27, prévoit des coupes modérées dans la politique agricole commune et la politique de cohésion, et reflète les nouvelles politiques qui détermineront notre avenir. si nous voulons de l’argent pour la recherche, la lutte contre le changement climatique, l’avenir de nos jeunes, le numérique, une meilleure gestion des migrations, il n’y a pas de place pour les réductions. soyons sérieux! comment peut-on s’étonner que, dans le prochain budget de l’union européenne, les contributions nationales augmentent parce que, dans les deux cas, cela est principalement dû à l’inflation et à la croissance économique? et comment ne pas admettre qu’il serait beaucoup plus équitable pour tous de supprimer les rabais dont certains pays bénéficient pour des raisons historiques? enfin, ne perdons pas de vue que la discussion sur les soldes nets est une fausse discussion parce que, avec le budget de l’union européenne, tout le monde y gagne, puisque nous faisons ensemble ce que nous ne pouvons plus faire individuellement. i would like to finish with a few remarks ahead of the euro summit. we cannot talk about europe’s future – our efforts to ensure sustainability and the right budget to meet our citizens’ needs – without the understanding that strengthening our economic and monetary union is a fundamental component for our success. the good news is that there is a consensus on the principal elements needed to continue doing this and even better news because progress on this important work is well within reach. this includes the first-ever budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness in the euro area, the main features of which have now been agreed. secondly, on the european stability mechanism, which by its very existence already increases resilience in the euro area, the legal framework still falls short of the political reality which must also include its role as a backstop to the single resolution fund. and thirdly, on the completion of the banking union. on this last point, i would like to underline that when the banking union was launched, it was always going to be based on three pillars: supervision, resolution and the third, missing pillar – a european deposit insurance scheme. it has been four years since the commission made a proposal and two years since we proposed pragmatic solutions to find a compromise between parliament and the council. progress is long overdue. i want to welcome the ongoing work of the high—level working group in this regard and, on behalf of the commission and my colleagues dombrovskis and moscovici, i look forward to seeing an outcome of this work and an agreement on how to put this into practice. we may be subject to political cycles. i said something about this at the beginning. that is the nature of democracy. the same should not apply to our economy. here we need to ensure stability. over the last five years we’ve been deepening the economic and monetary union, precisely because doing so is making our economy stronger and more resilient to stress. in the face of increasing pressure in our external environment, we need this resilience at home. we are before the biggest challenge humanity has ever faced and we need to prepare for it well.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would first like to thank frans timmermans for referring to jean-claude juncker. we christian democrats also regard him as standing in the same rank as de gasperi, schuman, helmut kohl and other strong christian democrats who have shaped europe. i think we all wish him a good recovery from the serious operation he has just undergone. the council is also about to change. we shall have a new president of the council, and perhaps during the first preparatory debate on the first council meeting under charles michel we shall be able to express some wishes as to what might happen next. i would like, for example, to see a council which is trustworthy to the citizens of europe. the mff debate is at the heart of this. millions of farmers, students and mayors are waiting for clarity, for planning certainty. that is why our aim now is to create urgency, not to postpone, postpone, postpone, in the hope that the german presidency will solve this. no, progress must be made in december and then the croatian presidency must reach a solution at the beginning of the year: reliability. the second is we need fairness. this means that the next european council should now give the green light to north macedonia and albania. what we saw last time is a tragedy, a historical mistake. it is not possible for us to continue accession talks with turkey on the one hand and say to north macedonia on the other hand that it should not become a member of the european union. it's crazy what we're doing. the citizens don't understand that anymore either. i would like the next european council to speak clearly. for example, we now have in malta - a member state of the european union - the fact that corruption is reaching the highest levels of government and is also being linked to the death of journalist daphne galizia. this is what we are experiencing in malta at the moment. yesterday the labour government in malta prevented a debate in the national parliament on these proceedings. this is not acceptable. i would like to see such questions discussed in the council as in malta. i have to say , i was surprised to read what president macron said about viktor orbán, since we all activated article 7 together and are concerned about what is happening in hungary. i read in the newspaper that macron says about orbán: "i had a very long discussion on this subject" "so on the future of europe" "with viktor orbán". he is quite close to our views and has a key intellectual and political role within the visegrad group, which is important. i'd like to hear from renew about how to handle it. i would like to see the next european council finally discussing article 7 issues in hungary. and that this is put on the table as the future of fundamental rights in europe. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to make one further request for the council's deliberations, namely the co2 debate. we in parliament agree that we want to be ambitious. we are even proud that europe has been the leading continent in the world in recent years. we want to be ambitious, but realistic. our job is to achieve the goals, but not to leave people behind. on the one hand, there is the respect for greta thunberg, who is the ambitious voice of the younger generation. but there are also the yellow vest demonstrations where people are worried that they cannot afford the higher fuel prices. and there's the fear of the coal workers and the car workers, what's going to happen to their industry, whether their jobs are safe. bringing this together is the task europe must tackle. finally, i hope that the next european council will make an ambitious proposal on the question of foreign and security policy. that will dominate the next five years, so no more unanimity in the foreign affairs council, and an ambitious proposal for a defence union is needed. i know it's a wish list. i know a lot of this isn't gonna happen. but i will say this: at the beginning of a new leadership in the european council under charles michel, one will be allowed to make a wish.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, we are preparing for a new presidency of the council. the multiannual budgetary perspective is back on the council's agenda, alongside our climate ambitions. europe is not just a question of budget, but the budget is the translation of our political ambition. the council will have on its agenda two subjects which are fundamentally linked: the budgetary perspective and the climate. climate change is one of the best examples. if we want a europe that is both carbon neutral and has a vibrant economy that creates jobs, we must ensure and support this transition. this is the meaning of the green deal: combining the environment and the economy. but this cannot be done with mere words and political statements. i regret that the discussions have so far focused on the ceilings on expenditure that member states would like to allocate to european projects, negotiating up to the second decimal place of the comma. are we limiting the part of ourselves that carries our european identity? is it an end in itself to limit europe to an impassable course? i do not believe that, and my group, which aspires to a european renewal, cannot subscribe to that vision. let us talk about what europe can and must do, and let us collectively put the means on the table so that europe is not synonymous with additional spending but with a more efficient use of public funds, because europe can be more efficient than our member states taken separately. we are electing a new commission tomorrow with an ambitious work programme and we must therefore be consistent. we should not be afraid of european spending, because it is usually accompanied by lower national spending. of course, the european union is not free, it also has values, which must be shared. for my group, two issues are fundamental: the reform of own resources and the conditionality of european funds, to ensure that these values are really respected. this is the only way to give the european project coherence. before we ask others to do so, we must make sure that these values are respected in our political families and that all members of our political families respect them as well.
i would ask the honourable members who are taking pictures with banners in their hands to leave the room. it is against our rules. the same applies if a group leader is present.
mr president, i voted in favour of this agreement, or rather the amendment to the association agreement. trade with ukraine is extremely important not only economically but above all politically. we're supporting the economy of ukraine, our partner in the east. if we don't support ukraine economically, then it will further strengthen russia's interest in this area. i simply see this change in a geopolitical light and that is why i supported it, even though some may argue that it is not beneficial for the member states of the european union. we must support the stability of ukraine in this way, support a country that is a dividing line between europe and russia. it is, in my opinion, extremely important.
mr president, i too supported this motion for a resolution, for several reasons. first, we see a really clear support for ukraine as a state. we have approved the association agreement and, among other things, the preferential access to the european market, which is one of the elements of this association agreement. we must support ukraine, i fully agree with that, i think it is in the interest of both entities, that is to say both the ukrainian community and the european union as such. yesterday, in the debate, it was made clear that certain concerns and gaps that arose from the proposal have been removed. i want to thank commissioner hogan for actually doing that. concerns about the respect of welfare principles, i.e. the protection of animal rights, sanitary and phytosanitary requirements, were removed and reflected in the proposal. of course, i understand that there are also interests of european farmers, but supporting ukraine is a priority. in that sense, my support was also a priority.
mr president, i am pleased to support this amendment to the uk— ukraine agreement which closes the loophole on poultry and which has been having a significant impact on our poultry farmers in recent times. this loophole was found by ukrainian suppliers and meant that a certain cut, consisting of traditional breast cap with the humerus bone of the wings attached, could be marketed in the eu as a chicken breast by removing the bone, and was then tariff-free, as it entered the eu as a different product. unlimited imports of those cuts, of which imports from ukraine reached 55 500 tonnes in 2018, therefore risk undermining the conditions under which traditional poultry breast cuts had been imported into the union under the association agreement. i welcome that this issue has now been resolved, but call on the commission in future such negotiations to ensure that all checks and assessments are made in advance to prevent it happening again.
mr president, our negative vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by three quarters of the groups in this parliament is obviously not directed against children, quite the contrary. it is precisely because the fifteen pages of this very long resolution are nothing but wishful thinking that we have not been able to follow it. it is the copy of the texts which have in no way prevented violence against children. in our view, it would have been necessary - and this is what we said in our alternative resolution - to show a moral, educational and economic force promoted by each member state and relayed by the european union. but the latter clearly did not fulfil its role. it should have been fully committed to combating all the perversions and all the violence to which children are subjected throughout the world. it should also have been much more economically strong, both in relation to families falling into poverty and in relation to national economic systems that have stagnated since the last global economic crisis. children all over the world deserve better than the waiting of a european schoolteacher.
mr president, according to the egmont institute, right now there are approximately 700 european children in refugee camps al-hawl, al-roj and ain issa. the un says it is impossible to estimate the number of european children in iraq and syria as many of them were born there during the war. the safe repatriation of children should be our priority but so far france has repatriated 18, sweden 7 and germany fewer than 10 children. at the same time, the right to return to the state of which one is a national is enshrined in several legal documents. it’s shameful that in practice we are imputing responsibility on children for crimes committed by their parents and let them stay and grow up in terrifying conditions in refugee camps. that’s why i supported this resolution, and especially paragraph 61.
mr president, we are talking about children's rights and today in the european union there are member states where children do not have basic access to fundamental rights such as food or education. we're talking about children's rights, and there are member states in the european union that have wanted to criminalize the right to sex education. i myself come from a country that is a champion in teenage motherhood. in 2017, over 18,000 births were registered in romania to teenage mothers. 700 of these mothers were under 15. most teenage mothers come from poor backgrounds, without access to health care, without access to education and information. there is a fundamental need for coordinated support across the european union to ensure these rights of the child. we cannot have children in the european union who give birth to other children.
i'm going to vote for you, because i'm happy to be with you. it is a great blessing to all the children who are under-privileged. these include children under the age of 18, children who have reached an eu country from abroad, children who are under the age of 18 and children who have reached the age of 18. the sea would have made it impossible for us to stand up against the sea. especially for children. we must not fail to show our children that we have to be a part of our member state to ensure that there is an open and quality education for all. no reason to vote me and leave a ruined city.
mr president, i am pleased to be a co-sponsor of this resolution and i have obviously voted in favour of the proposed text, because there is no better way to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of the child than with a renewed commitment. i sincerely hope that this resolution, together with the priority expressed by the new commission to implement the child guarantee, will signal to european citizens that the european union is firmly committed to eradicating child poverty and guaranteeing children's rights in europe and the world. in romania, four out of ten children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this situation is unacceptable and i will fight for the entire mandate for children's access to education, health, proper nutrition and decent housing. we will fight at home, in romania, we will fight in europe for the future of our children, for our future, for the future.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the renew group, i have found that we have much higher ambitions in the european parliament than the representatives of our governments. many of us are first-term meps and we still have the enthusiasm that our citizens have invested in bringing about change in europe. we have put programmes that include measures against climate change at the heart of the 2020 budget negotiations because the majority of european citizens continue to express this as their primary concern. i reiterated the importance of a balanced geographical distribution of funds to meet the concerns of the eastern countries which are having difficulties in connecting to the european area and in accelerating economic convergence. europe cannot be a strong pole if a third of the member countries are economically behind. we would also like to send a clear signal that the european union makes the fight against corruption a priority. i insisted that enough posts be secured for the new european public prosecutor's office so that it becomes a functioning institution by next year. so we've achieved some victories relative to the goals that i personally set for myself. but we have won a real victory, a symbolic victory, an important victory from the position of the newly elected parliament. it is the largest amount of funds negotiated in parliament in relation to a council proposal in recent years. we have clearly stated our priorities: climate protection, innovation and future businesses, supporting the new generations and the continental east-west economic balance. in conclusion, i believe that our message from the 2020 budget negotiations strengthens our vision of the future multiannual financial framework. the political guidelines of the european union for the next seven years will depend on this financial framework, including the cohesion policy so vital for the eastern european area. i thank all my colleagues for their work, for the dialogue, for the support they have given during the negotiations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the compromise proposal of the european council and the european parliament on our table, which relates to the budget of the european union for the next year, i.e. 2020, is acceptable in the opinion of the hungarian delegation of the european people's party, and therefore we will support the 2020 eu budget in tomorrow's vote. the positive aspects of the compromise reached have already been discussed in detail by my colleagues. let me mention a joint declaration on the agreement between the european council and parliament, which is reassuring for european regions implementing development from cohesion funds. in a joint statement, the council and parliament committed themselves to mobilise additional resources under the supplementary budget in an accelerated procedure if the resources allocated in the next year's budget prove insufficient for cohesion payments in 2020 in order to avoid the payment of the invoices submitted for the improvements made by the regions. i particularly welcome this supplementary budget, which can be adopted under the accelerated procedure, and the joint declaration on it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the 2020 budget of the european union is a success. i congratulate my colleague monica hohlmeier for her involvement, as well as all those who made this achievement possible. an important objective of this budget is to supplement the allocation for the erasmus+ programme by eur 50 million. the programme needs improvements for the 2021-2027 programming period and these should be considered as early as next year. a working group of programme specialists from all legitimate institutions and beneficiary organisations should be set up to carry out a thorough analysis of the programme's shortcomings, cost differences, motivation needs, human resources involved. project budgets should contain amounts of money that help beneficiaries to better understand, integrate into the life of local communities. this measure should be doubled by extending the duration of studies, exchanges and traineeships. this would enhance young people's knowledge of europe, give real weight to young people's confidence in the european union's functioning and fully illustrate the need to protect and promote our european way of life. i encourage member states to come up with national co-financing solutions. this will increase the chances of achieving the programme objectives and related performance indicators, but also of delivering a strong impact of the projects.
mr. biedroń, i want to thank you on behalf of thousands of romanians who feel the same way as you. my party colleague, cristina, told me what it meant to be a member of the lgbti community in romania during communism. what unites us all in this matter? we have dreams, we want to be free, and we want to love. millions of european citizens enjoy these rights. but there are millions more who are treated by their states as less equal than others. in 2015, the echr, through the oliari decision, obliges states to recognize and create civil partnerships. but to date, six european member states have yet to implement that decision. it is not in the hands of politicians the right to happiness, it is not in their hands the right to love or not to love. young people committing suicide, who are suffering, who are offended, this is the lgbti reality that some in this room are afraid of. i'd like to end with a quote from martin luther king: darkness cannot drive away darkness, only light will. hate cannot drive out hate, only love will.
madam president, unfortunately the european farmer is beginning to feel like an unwanted child of the family. although he has the burden of feeding much of the planet to drastic standards, he is now being overwhelmed by an avalanche of uncertainties and worries generated by events not directly related to him: the reduction of the agricultural budget due to brexit and other recent priorities of the union, unfair competition and the double standards that will come with mercosur, and more recently, he is sentenced in absentia in the airbus dispute. although he has done nothing wrong, the european farmer will have to bear more than half of the sanctions, i.e. 10 billion dollars if the amount is retained. this tag is being driven to bankruptcy and with it every citizen of the european union will suffer. if we want to destroy the european farmer, a species that is becoming increasingly rare, we are on the right track. but if we want to defend and preserve it, we will have to remember that the european union is founded on principles such as solidarity and fairness and the fair and just treatment of its citizens. it is time to put these principles into practice and to act swiftly diplomatically, financially and by whatever other means necessary to save the european farmer and the food he provides us.
madam president, the imposition by the united states of 25% tariffs on emblematic agricultural products such as peaches, compost, feta, yoghurt and dairy products will be a huge blow to greek producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the united states policy will inevitably damage the greek food industry and will affect jobs and investment, especially in the peach compost sector. it is totally unfair that the agricultural economy is paying for a trade war, the consequence of the dispute over aircraft investments, which has nothing to do with agricultural products. commissioner, use all the means at your disposal to heal the wounds in the agricultural sector throughout europe and in my country, greece.
the sanctions imposed by the united states on european union products threaten the viability of thousands of producers and small and mediumsized enterprises. in my country, greece, in particular, we are facing a serious problem with the companies producing peach compost, as the figures from the canners' association show that the damage is estimated at 50 million dollars. greek exports of compost to the united states account for 20% of domestic production. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. for this reason, the flexibility in the application and management of support funds to farmers, as exemplified by mr hogan's proposals for wine, can also be applied to peaches and feta and yoghurt and other emblematic products. we need immediate intervention before households are destroyed, before productive agricultural and manufacturing enterprises are lost, not only in pella and amathia, but everywhere in europe.
the commission has already done so. the new us punitive tariffs on agricultural exports from airbus producing countries are a bad follow-up to the eu's wto ruling against subsidies to airbus. our farmers are losing their income as a punishment for industrial subsidies, but also for wrong wto rules. this is not acceptable. the commission can learn two things from this: first of all, you can't rely on donald trump. the eu is not going to thank you if it wants to buy trade peace with a lot of money for soybeans and gas from the us. we must support the farms in the eu affected by the crisis, through compensation payments but also by encouraging diversification of exports. french wine is also appreciated in china and elsewhere. secondly, stop demonizing subsidies to industry. change the rules of the wto. neither airbus nor boeing would have made their rise without subsidies. take money in hand for sustainable industrial policy and future technology and allow other wto members to do the same. we need that to stop climate change.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to this debate and i understand your concerns. as you know, this is an old dispute between the eu and the us –airbus/boeing. it has been going on for 15 years. there’s a huge room of papers on only this case in geneva, and it has certainly paid the wages of many lawyers. wto has found that both the eu and the us have been guilty of giving unauthorised subsidies to boeing and airbus. this gives the formal right to the us now – and to us a little bit later, next year – to impose tariffs. we have made it very clear to the us that we are preparing such a list as well, to have if it is needed. however, as many of you have said, we already have too many tariffs in this world, and that is why we have been pushing for a negotiated solution. we have provided quite detailed elements of what we could do on both sides for existing, past and future subsidies in this area. some subsidies have been allowed; some have been condemned; some have disappeared; some are in the process of being disappeared. but it has, of course, to be a balanced process which both boeing and airbus dismantles, and this is a process that we have asked the americans to engage in. i have raised it personally with ambassador lighthizer several times. i know that member states, some of you and others have passed on the same message, so we have been perfectly united there. we have also proposed that, apart from disciplining ourselves, we should set global standards, because the big problem in the future will be other big economies who are already today massively subsidising their civil aircraft. if we could put some global standards here, it would be useful. unfortunately, the us has not, at this point, been willing to engage. we will keep on pushing, of course, but so far that has not been possible and we are here today, stuck with tariffs that are, of course, disproportionately – and that is totally deliberate from the us side – affecting the agricultural sector. i am aware – and so is phil hogan and the whole commission – of the social and economic difficulties in sectors, in regions, and whole countries that this is causing. this is serious and it is urgent. that is why, since quite some time, we are assessing the situation. as i said in my introduction, there are several tools at our disposal. some have already been announced: flexibility and promotion. there might be others as well, but we need to be totally clear on what we do, what the consequences of the us tariffs and the consequences of other market distortions or other problems are, because we need to be able to design targeted, effective measures, and they need to be wto compliant. that is what we are doing right now. i would like to firmly reject the notion that the trade policy has been a disadvantage for the agriculture market. on the contrary, there are several independent reports proving that the latest trade deals that we have done with japan, with canada and now with singapore, which is entering into force, and also future agreements with vietnam, mercosur and mexico, are and will be hugely beneficial to the european agriculture sector. we’re opening up new markets for products that are highly in demand from all over the world, and this is, of course, also very important for agriculture. having said that, i do not in any way want to diminish the problems that farmers and the agricultural and wine sectors are facing here today, and this is why our services in this commission and the coming commission will finalise the study and the analysis and come back to you and the member states. we discussed it at the trade council meeting last week with member states as well, on further action very soon in this field.
in writing. the wto's professional body's big deadline is 10 december. the term of office of two of the three remaining members shall then expire. if this happens, the professional body is out of the picture. donald trump is playing a game with the highest body for the resolution of trade conflicts. europe cannot allow this to happen. in addition to blocking the appeals body, trump is currently blocking the wto's 2020 and 2021 budgets. when it comes to world trade, it can't be one man knocking the referee out. i therefore call on the commission to continue consultations with the various wto members in order to avoid a blockade.
in writing. the consequences of the trade dispute between the european aircraft manufacturer airbus and the american boeing must not be felt by european farmers, vine growers and ranchers. the recent decision by the world trade organisation to authorise the united states to impose additional tariffs worth usd 7,5 billion on a number of european products may have irreversible negative effects on producers in different regions of the european union. i therefore find it absolutely necessary that, through this resolution, we identify effective measures to support producers at risk of limiting their export volume or production capacity, such as access to new markets or possible compensation.
madam president, mrs malmström, the motion for a resolution we are now debating was supported by a very large majority in the inta committee yesterday. we shall see that majority reflected on thursday when the vote is taken in plenary. and it is very important that a single, strong, firm voice be heard from all the political groups making that necessary defence of the multilateralism of the world trade organisation and, of course, of the appellate body. because there can be no multilateralism and there can be no rules-based trade if there are no mechanisms for conflict resolution. and, of course, with a second instance. i acknowledge the enormous efforts made by the european commission and by our partners, but it is true that they have not been successful. it is true that we are facing a politician who wants to destroy rather than build. because when a thing is improvable, it is not destroyed but reformed. and it is true that the appellate body, like the wto as a whole, needs reform. but reform is achieved when we all stand for the same end and work towards the best solutions. but it certainly doesn't look like it's going to change, unfortunately, donald trump's position. it has been very significant for me, unfortunately in negative terms, that a written declaration from the last g20 summit in nagoya has not been obtained either. and it is very sad that, indeed, the us secretary of commerce was not at the meeting. so we have to put ourselves in the worst-case scenario. and that requires plan b. i think that the path that ambassador walker has set is a good mechanism, but the leadership of the european union is essential. and, madam president, allow me three seconds to congratulate the commissioner on her entire career, on the work she has done in these five years. it has been an honour to work with you, to collaborate on the defence of human rights, on trade policy and on gender equality. i am very sorry that this stage is over and i wish you the best in the next one.
madam president, i know it is difficult at this stage to say something that has not been said yet, but let’s try. i would like to start by saying that the ‘america first’ strategy, announced in 2016 by the american president has aimed at abolishing the global rules-based trading framework, a key element of the global order of which wto is an essential pillar. the crisis of the wto appellate body is part of this destructive political process, and we should strongly disagree with all those who say that we do not need a wto appellate body. preserving the global trade system should continue to be an important eu priority for the coming years. we also know that to preserve implies in this case the need to overhaul the wto, and we need to stick to an eu comprehensive approach towards the modernisation of all main functions of the wto. we should also support the walker process and we should avoid spending years on reflecting about the past. we have to move on. we need to involve other countries with whom we have converging approach in the wto reform. i would also like to support the effort of the european commission to temporarily replace the missing dispute-settlement mechanism with an interim bilateral solution like the agreements with norway and canada. but it goes without saying that this should not slow down reform efforts. to finish: a big thank you once again to commissioner malmström.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the request of over 100 member states of the world trade organization, the appellate body for the settlement of disputes will cease to function on 10 december, and with it a serious blow to the credibility of these institutions. behind a seemingly very technical story lies a political and ideological clash: the conflict between supporters, even if critical, of the multilateral system and those who want to dismantle the international governance that has been built up over many years. the wto is clearly not working. the multilateral agenda has been almost fixed for some time, with the result that bilateral agreements have multiplied. but the trump administration's decision to block a body essential to the functioning of the wto is part of a policy that wants a system of international relations based on the law of the strongest and ideological protectionism. but let us beware of this dangerous drift, for it risks turning back the clock of history. the complexity of globalisation processes requires effective but shared rules to protect citizens who call for more democratic and transparent decision-making processes and to protect businesses who call for uniform global rules and standards to increase trade and exports. either international trade will help make our societies fairer and our economies more sustainable or it will become just a political tool for the populist of the day to use and consume.
madam president, it is very important for the eu to boost exports and jobs, and that we have free, fair and reciprocal trade relations with the rest of the world. trade policy is a great example of how important the eu is in the multilateral order. that’s why it’s very unfortunate that the wto appellate body is set to become dysfunctional in two weeks’ time. but we should have a look at and bear in mind the context in which the us is blocking the appointment of the new judges and why. the wto ruling, as it functions today, has not prevented china from using massive state aid and forced technology transfer to compete unfairly also with us, the eu. the commission proposal to set up a new global trade court – together with countries such as china – to replace the wto appellate body, would then be problematic. wouldn’t we then undermine the important joint efforts – in which the us and japan are with us – in the reforming of the wto? a new court could easily become a permanent solution and lessen efforts in the wto reform. let’s rather have temporary bilateral arrangements on the wto ruling, like deals we have with canada and norway already.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to speak again in this debate, which is undoubtedly an important debate, in which there has been a great deal of unanimity from all the groups in this house - which, for a wto issue and for international trade issues, is already a great deal of unanimity. as one of my colleagues said earlier, to abolish the appeal system is to abolish international trade, without a doubt. the wto is in a serious crisis - a deep crisis - and to remove this system is a slap in the face to the wto itself. but, ladies and gentlemen, society, which is not thoroughly familiar with these matters, is not at all concerned, and that is a serious problem, because, in the end, what we have to do is to resolve the situation of the world trade organization and prevent the growth of bilateral systems. i hope we will take the opportunity - it is a great opportunity we have - to build more confidence in international trade and to reform the court system in the wto.
madam president, on 10 december the wto dispute settlement appellate body will be paralysed by the crisis. the court will now be composed of one judge only, as the united states is blocking the renewal of the other six. this crisis is worrying, but it is also an opportunity to seize. we should take advantage of this to try to rebuild world trade on a healthier basis. the free trade model should be much more structured to move, as it were, from childhood to adulthood. all trade should be subject to compliance with minimum social, health and environmental standards, and short-distance travel should be systematically encouraged. let us try to build this model with all the states that will follow us. only in this context will the reform of the appellate body make sense.
member of the commission. – madam president, the restoration of the dispute settlement system in the wto is and will remain the priority of the european commission. we want a system that works for all members, and that includes all members, including the us. to that end, we are ready to talk to friends and partners with an open mind. but of course we cannot compromise on the basics of the system. it has to be independent, it has to be a two-level system and it has to be binding. the contingency measures that we are doing are contingency measures, nothing else. they are the second best. we are preparing for them and we must do everything to preserve our right if the appointments remained blocked, and that is very likely. but we will continue to work here. many of you have said the wto needs reform. absolutely! it does need reform in all areas: in the daily work when it comes to transparency and reporting, in the decision-making process when it comes to dealing with new issues such as e-commerce, where we’re doing some work as well, and updating the rule book to address issues such as massive industrial subsidies, forced technology transfer, and so on. and here the european union is working very hard, sometimes with other allies and friends, to address all these issues, and we will do this and we will continue to do this during the spring and the month leading up to the next ministerial conference. we will not solve all issues by then, but we will, hopefully, make some progress. we cannot let the appellate body and the reforms be hostage. we need to do both things but not wait for all the reforms to be concluded before the us lift their blocking. but the message that you sent here today, unanimously, is very much appreciated. i think that will be heard outside this plenary as well, not only in europe. i want to thank the committee on international trade (inta), the rapporteur and the chair for taking this broad initiative, and i know we can count on the european parliament for continued reform and to be a strong player in the wto when it’s reformed but also on its implementation. finally, let me thank the plenary and the brave members who are still here for many debates. this is probably, in all likelihood, my last debate, so thank you very much for the good times, the constructive talks that we’ve had and for your hard work on these issues.
today is a big day, as you know. the agenda includes the presentation of the college of commissioners and its programme by the president-elect of the commission (2019/2801 ((rsp)). we shall now give the floor to mrs ursula von der leyen for her introduction to the debate.
commission president-elect. – mr president, on 27 november – exactly 30 years ago – the clock strikes 12, church bells ring, sirens blare, workers down tools, and factories, mines and shops empty as the streets fill up with dance and hope. the historic two-hour general strike in the middle of the velvet revolution saw people from prague to bratislava take part in a beautiful, peaceful wave of freedom, courage and unity. (applause)for me, these two hours go to the heart of what the european union has always meant. it is not only about parties and politics, rules or regulations, markets or currencies. it is ultimately, and above all else, about people and their aspirations. it is about people standing together for their liberty, for their values – simply for a better future. there is one quote from the great václav havel, one of the heroes of 1989, that stands out for me when i look ahead to the future: ‘work for something because it is good, not just because it stands a chance to succeed’. i chose this quote because, over the next five years, our union will embark together on a transformation which will touch every part of our society and of our economy, and we will do it because it is the right thing to do – not because it will be easy. (applause)we sometimes forget that our greatest achievements have always come when we are bold. we were bold when we sought peace where there was pain. we were bold when we created a single market and a single currency. we were bold when we welcomed the part of our european family that had been out in the cold for too long. but in the last years, we have had to focus on the here and now, managing crisis after emergency, fighting to keep our unity and solidarity intact. if we have emerged stronger in that time – and i believe we have – it is, in great part, thanks to the leadership and conviction of my predecessor, jean-claude juncker. a great european, he has devoted his heart, his soul and his life to our union, and his legacy speaks for itself. jean—claude, merci de nous tous. (sustained applause) monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les membres du parlement européen, cela fait quatre mois que vous m’avez accordé votre confiance. depuis, j’ai rencontré tous les groupes politiques et tous les chefs d’état ou de gouvernement. ensemble, nous avons formé une équipe européenne exceptionnelle. vous, les membres du parlement, avez auditionné chacun d’entre nous. je vous avais promis de vous écouter, c’est exactement ce que j’ai fait, et je continuerai de le faire, accompagnée de maros šefčovič et de tous les autres membres du collège. nous avons souvent été d’accord et, parfois nous ne l’avons pas été, mais c’est la démocratie à l’œuvre. aujourd’hui, ici, au cœur de cette démocratie européenne, je vous demande votre soutien pour un nouveau départ de l’europe. the team you are voting on today come from different cultures and countries and have different backgrounds and political colours. we have teachers and farmers, mayors and ministers, doctors and diplomats, engineers and entrepreneurs. we have those born before the berlin wall was built and those born after it was torn down, those who lived in dictatorships and those who helped young democracies join our union. it is a team with almost – almost – as many women as men, only one woman away from gender balance. (applause)this shows we have made real progress, but also that we still have to do more. as the first woman to be president of the commission, every member of my college will have a gender-balanced cabinet – for the very first time. (applause)and by the end of our mandate, we will have gender equality at all levels of management for the very first time, and this will change the face of the commission. every member of my team will bring their own personal stories and perspectives on europe. they will each have their own policies and priorities to manage. but all together we will be one team that works in the common european interest. we will be one team that works with this house and with member states to tackle our generation’s defining challenges. we are ready but, most importantly, europe is ready. my message is simple: let’s get to work. (applause)this is an unsettled world, where too many powers only speak the language of confrontation and unilateralism, but it is also a world where millions of people are taking to the streets to protest against corruption or to demand democratic change. the world needs our leadership more than ever: to keep engaging with the world as a responsible power, and to be a force for peace and for positive change. we must show our partners at the united nations that they can rely on us as a champion of multilateralism. we must demonstrate to our friends in the western balkans that we share the same continent, the same history, the same culture, and we will share the same destiny. our door remains open. (applause)we also share the same destiny with our transatlantic partners. yes, we have issues – without any doubt. but our ties have lasted the test of time. while we are speaking, thousands of students, researchers, entrepreneurs and artists continue to build zillions of friendships, business contacts, and science projects. this myriad of fine threads woven together make a bond that is stronger than any individual point of discord. countries from east to west, from south to north, need europe to be a true partner. we can be the shapers of a better global order. this is europe’s vocation and it’s what european citizens want. i am happy to have such an experienced diplomat as josep borrell on our team, working alongside jutta urpilainen, olivér várhelyi and janez lenarčič. they will do an invaluable job together. we will invest in alliances and coalitions to advance our values. we will promote and protect europe’s interest through open and fair trade. we’ll strengthen our partners through cooperation because strong partners make europe strong too. my commission will not be afraid to speak the language of confidence, but it will be our way, the european way. this is the geopolitical commission that i have in mind and that europe urgently needs. if there is one area where the world needs our leadership, it is on protecting our climate. this is an existential issue for europe and for the world. how can it not be existential when 85% of people in extreme poverty live in the 20 countries most vulnerable to climate change? how can it not be existential when we see venice under water, portugal’s forests on fire or lithuania’s harvests cut by half because of droughts? this has happened before, without any question, but never with that frequency and with that intensity. we do not have a moment to waste anymore on fighting climate change. (applause) the faster europe moves, the greater the advantage will be for our citizens, our competitiveness and our prosperity. the european green deal is a must for the health of our planet, our people and for our economy. frans timmermans is the right person to make this happen. (applause)and i am delighted that he will be supported by kadri simson, adina vălean and many others. the european green deal is our new growth strategy. it will help us cut emissions while creating jobs. at the core of it will be an industrial strategy that enables our businesses – big and small – to innovate and to develop new technologies, while creating new markets. we will be global standard setters. this is our competitive advantage and is the best way to ensure a level-playing field. but all of this has to serve the european people. they want and expect europe to act on climate and environment, but they also need affordable, clean and secure energy. they need to be skilled to work in the jobs of tomorrow. they need to commute to those new jobs or be connected from home and we have to make sure that those needs are fulfilled in a sustainable way. it is a generational transition towards climate neutrality by mid—century, but this transition must be just and inclusive or it will not happen at all. (applause)it will need massive investment in innovation, research, infrastructure, housing, and the training of people. it will require public and private investments at the european and at national levels. and, once again, europe is already leading the way. the european union will mainstream climate financing throughout its budget, but also throughout capital markets and the entire investment chain. in regions that will have to make a bigger step than most we will support people and businesses with a targeted just transition mechanism. it will cut across different funds and instruments and attract the private investment we need. to help us achieve this, the european investment bank will be a trusted partner. i am particularly happy that the progress it has made to strengthen its role as european climate bank is obvious. this will boost investment in european technologies and the solutions the world is looking for. but there is more to do. we only account for approximately 9% of global emissions. we have to bring the world with us and this is already happening. from china to canada and through to california, others are working with us on their own emissions trading system, and phil hogan will ensure that our future trade agreements include a chapter on sustainable development because we know that climate change is about all of us. we have the duty to act and the power to lead. (applause) meine damen und herren, die digitalisierung ermöglicht dinge, die noch vor einer generation undenkbar waren: weltweit miteinander kommunizieren, zugang zu informationen, fortschritte in medizin, umweltschutz, mobilität, inklusion. es gibt keine zukunft ohne digitalisierung. margrethe vestager ist diejenige, die uns auf diesem weg weiterbringen wird. wir werden tätigkeiten automatisieren, die uns menschen schwerfallen, zum beispiel das tragen von schweren lasten oder das repetitive, die wiederholungsaufgaben, egal ob in der fabrik oder am schreibtisch. aber das hat auch etwas gutes: das wird uns zeit schenken. zeit für das, was uns menschen auszeichnet und was computer eben nicht können: empathie und kreativität. der pflegeroboter kann zum beispiel beim umbetten helfen und die digitalisierung kann bei den verwaltungsaufgaben helfen. aber immer mit einem ziel: dass pflegepersonal wieder zeit hat, das zu tun, was wirklich wichtig ist, nämlich mit den patienten sprechen und für sie da sein. digitalisierung wird uns ermöglichen, effektiver und effizienter mit ressourcen umzugehen, weil wir alles ganz genau werden aussteuern können: wasserverbrauch, energie und all die wertvollen ressourcen unseres planeten. ja, die digitalisierung wird unsere gesellschaft, unsere wirtschaft, unsere verwaltung von grund auf verändern, und sie tut es ja schon bereits heute. um die großen chancen zu nutzen, aber um auch die risiken einzudämmen, müssen wir da klug ausgleichen, wo es der markt nicht kann. wir müssen sowohl unseren europäischen wohlstand als auch unsere europäischen werte schützen. wir müssen unseren eigenen europäischen weg gehen – auch im digitalen zeitalter. wie wollen wir das konkret machen? erstens: wir müssen schlüsseltechnologien beherrschen und in europa besitzen. dazu gehören mit sicherheit quantencomputer, künstliche intelligenz, blockchain und kritische chiptechnologien. damit uns das aber gelingt, damit wir diese vorhandenen lücken schließen können, müssen wir das zusammen angehen, da wo wir dann immer stark sind. also lasst uns unsere ressourcen bündeln, unser geld, unsere forschungskapazitäten, unser wissen, auch unsere große fähigkeit der umsetzung dann in die praxis. wir haben das schon einmal getan beim supercomputer. europa ist derzeit dabei, auf dem weltmarkt einen – einen! – der drei leistungsstärksten rechner zu erwerben. das ist klasse, dass wir ihn bekommen, aber ich möchte, dass wir ihn in der nächsten generation als europäer selber bauen. das muss unser ziel sein. europa hat alle wissenschaftler und industriellen kapazitäten, um auf diesen feldern wettbewerbsfähig zu sein. lassen wir uns das nicht kleinreden, weder von außen noch von uns selbst. klar, innovation braucht kluge köpfe – gar keine frage –, aber innovation braucht auch diversität. innovation braucht freiräume, um zu denken. all das haben wir hier in europa. die menschen wollen hier leben, sie wollen hier forschen, sie wollen hier ihre zukunft gestalten. wir brauchen zukunftsfähige infrastruktur mit gemeinsamen standards sowie gigabit-netzwerke und sichere clouds, nicht nur der heutigen, sondern vor allen dingen dann auch der nächsten generation. das rohmaterial der digitalisierung, das sind daten. mit jedem klick, den wir hier in europa tun, füttern wir algorithmen – meistens eher transatlantische – die wiederum unser verhalten beeinflussen. das ist kein guter zustand. deshalb: so wie wir das bei der datenschutz-grundverordnung getan haben – nämlich den rahmen für die welt gesetzt haben und das konnte nur europa tun –, so müssen wir dieses auch bei der künstlichen intelligenz tun. weil wir in europa vom menschen her denken, nicht vom markt und vom geld her. nicht vom staat her, sondern vom menschen her. es geht nicht darum – das ist wichtig –, den datenfluss einzudämmen. es geht darum, dass wir die regeln setzen, wie verantwortungsvoller umgang mit daten geht. denn für uns europäer hat der schutz der digitalen identität absolute und oberste priorität. uns ist das wichtig. gleichzeitig wollen wir innovation. heute werden 85 % aller nicht-personenbezogenen daten – 85 %! – nicht ein einziges mal genutzt. sie werden automatisch gesammelt, sie werden nicht ein einziges mal genutzt. das ist eine riesenverschwendung. denn in diesen daten schlummern erkenntnisse, die wir haben in europa und die wir nutzen sollten. wir müssen deshalb einen rahmen beschreiben, damit regierungen und unternehmen daten teilen und in einem sicheren pool zur verfügung stellen können. ich kann mir keine kompetentere person vorstellen als thierry breton, um dazu eine datenstrategie zu entwickeln. ja, und dann gibt es das thema cybersicherheit. das ist die kehrseite von digitalisierung, also ist es für uns auch priorität. wir brauchen für die wettbewerbsfähigkeit der europäischen unternehmen höchste sicherheitsanforderungen und eine einheitliche europäische vorgehensweise. dazu müssen wir wissen über gefahren teilen: nicht need to know, aber need to share. wir sollten eine gemeinsame plattform schaffen, gewissermaßen eine erweiterte cybersicherheitsagentur. nur so stärken wir das vertrauen in die vernetzte wirtschaft, und nur so erhöhen wir die resilienz gegen alle arten von risiken. das kann uns alles gelingen, wenn wir gemeinsam vorgehen, wenn wir auf unseren europäischen werten aufbauen. und dann bin ich zuversichtlich, dass europa auch im digitalen zeitalter eine führende rolle spielen wird. das kann europa! honourable members, europe has a lot to be proud of. we are the world’s trading superpower. we rank first globally in exporting manufactured goods and services. we are the largest source and destination of foreign direct investment anywhere in the world. our industry is world class in high value sectors, for instance making a third of the world’s space satellites, and our companies are at the cutting edge, holding 40% of the world’s renewable technology patents. we should harness this transformative power of the twin digital and climate transition to strengthen our own industrial base and our innovation potential. this can only be done through investment. we have to scale up. for years, we have invested less in innovation than our competitors do. this is a huge handicap to our competitiveness and our ability to lead this transformation. this is why we should not see the next multiannual financial framework as a simple accounting exercise. the world seven years ago looks nothing like the world in seven years’ time. our budget must be significantly modernised. i know that in this field i can rely not only on the experience and skill of johannes hahn, but also on this parliament. but public budgets can only go so far. we must make sure that investment can flow to where it is needed by completing the capital markets union. this will help improve access to finance for small businesses and start—ups to let them grow, innovate and take the risks they need. the same goes for the banking union. we have to complete it in order to make our financial system stronger and more resilient. i have entrusted this task to valdis dombrovskis, the right person for the right job. (applause)he will make sure our economy works for people: quality jobs, equal opportunities, fair working conditions and inclusion. he knows that we need sound public finances for sustainable growth and he will drive our competitiveness and our sustainability. they go hand in hand. we should never forget that competitive sustainability has always been at the heart of our social market economy. we just called it something different. think of the family—owned businesses all across our union. they were not built solely on shareholder values or the next bonuses. they were built to last, to pass down generations, and to provide a fair living for the employees. they were built on passion for quality, tradition and innovation. the things we make today may have changed, but we must rediscover our competitive sustainability. it was in this spirit that each and every member state committed to the united nations sustainable development goals and it is in this spirit that paolo gentiloni will oversee the implementation of the goals. he believes in it and i believe in him. (applause)the european economy has recovered from one of the worst economic and financial crises since the end of the second world war. the labour market remains strong and unemployment continues to fall. however, with clouds forming on the horizon, europe should prepare for what is ahead. we need to rely on what makes us strong: our single market and our single currency. it is high time to complete our economic and monetary union to deliver growth and jobs by increasing macroeconomic resilience. we must use the flexibility allowed under the stability and growth pact to give the time and the space for our economies to grow. at the same time, we must support member states with targeted investments and structural reforms. i cannot think of a better person to lead this work than elisa ferreira. (applause)last month, 39 people lost their lives in the back of a lorry after having been trafficked through at least four eu countries. it is a tragedy that a mother in vietnam receives a message from her daughter in europe saying that she does not have room to breathe. for those 39 people, for their mothers, fathers, and friends, we all agree that this should never ever happen. (applause)people expect europe to find common solutions to the shared challenge of migration. this is an issue that has divided us but we should step forward. we need solutions that work for all. this is the task that i have entrusted to margaritis schinas and ylva johansson. with their different skills and perspectives, they will form a formidable team. one thing is for sure: europe will always provide shelter to those who are in need of international protection. (applause)it is in our interest that those who stay are integrated into our society, but we also have to ensure that those who have no right to stay return home. (applause)we have to break the cruel business model of smugglers. we must reform our asylum system, never forgetting our values of solidarity and responsibility. we need to strengthen our external borders to allow us to return to a fully—functioning schengen. we need to invest in our partnerships with countries of origin to improve conditions and create opportunities. it will not be easy, but let us remember the words of václav havel: it is the good thing to do. (applause) migration will not go away – it will stay with us and, therefore, i think that a europe that is so proud of its values and so proud of its the rule of law has to be able to come up with an answer that is both humane and effective. we should be able to do that. the same team of margaritis schinas and ylva johansson will also be responsible for strengthening our internal security. they will ensure that law enforcement cooperation can deal with new and emerging threats and they will make sure that europol, our best tool to fight crime, is fit for purpose. when i was a girl, living in brussels, my little sister died of cancer at the age of eleven. i remember the utter sense of helplessness of my parents, but also of the medical staff who looked after her with such care. every one of us has a similar story – or knows someone who has. the number of cancer cases are rising but we are getting better at diagnosis and treatment. europe will take the lead in the fight against cancer. early next year, stella kyriakides will launch an ambitious cancer plan. she is the right person to make sure that europe’s beating cancer plan helps to reduce the suffering caused by this disease. (applause)the point is that europe needs to care for the things people care about. people care about the future of our children and our society. culture and education are what link our history with our future. this is what makes us unique: our soul, our culture, our diversity, our heritage. and i know that with mariya gabriel it is in safe hands. this is why i am happy to announce that her portfolio will be renamed commissioner for innovation, research, culture, education and youth. (applause)people care about fairness and equality in every sense of the word. this is why i chose nicolas schmit to be in charge of implementing our european pillar of social rights and fighting poverty from childhood onwards. he will put forward a framework to ensure that every worker in our union has a fair minimum wage. (applause)helena dalli will be the champion we need to break through the glass ceilings, those barriers holding people back because of who they are, what they believe and who they love. these barriers have to disappear! period. people care about their rights, values and freedoms. the rule of law, as our foundation, can never be compromised. we must ensure that it is respected and upheld everywhere, with every country treated equally. we must focus on dialogue and prevention but never hesitate to take all necessary measures. we need experience and engagement, and věra jourová and didier reynders are exactly the right people for that. (applause)people care about the air they breathe, the water they drink, the food they eat and the nature they cherish. we can all be happy that virginijus sinkevičius will be leading europe’s fight to preserve our biodiversity and oceans, while ensuring our coastal and fishing communities can thrive. and we have janusz wojciechowski, who will ensure that our farmers can also thrive as they adapt to new realities. the twin transitions – climate and digitalisation – will bring changes for all, but let there be no doubt: farming will remain a valued part of our culture and our future. we need a sustainable farm—to—fork strategy – from capital access for young farmers to the fact that imported food products from third countries must comply with the european union’s environmental standards. (applause)people care about having a say in their future. the turnout in this year’s european elections was the highest in a quarter of a century. but democratic participation does not stop on election day. we will mobilise europe’s best energies from all parts of our union, from all institutions and from all walks of life to engage in the conference on the future of europe. it should be inclusive for all institutions and citizens and the european parliament should have a leading role. from the commission side, dubravka šuica, an experienced member of this house, will work closely with you to make this a success. (applause)we all know that one member of our family intends to leave our union. (applause from certain quarters)a vast majority of this house seems to be happy about the fact that a very, very, very small group in this house will not be able to clap as loudly anymore. (loud applause)i have never made any secret of the fact that i will always be a remainer. (applause)we will respect the decision taken by the british people. we will work closely together to find a solution to common challenges, especially on security matters, but one thing has to be absolutely clear: whatever the future holds, the bond and the friendship between our people are unbreakable. (applause)monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les parlementaires, dans trente ans, d’autres, ici-même, porteront un regard sur nos actions, comme je l’ai fait au début de mon discours. que diront-ils? cela dépend de ce que nous ferons ensemble. si nous faisons bien notre travail, l’europe de 2050 sera le premier continent du monde neutre en carbone et elle sera une puissance de premier plan dans le numérique, elle restera l’économie qui réussit le mieux à assurer l’équilibre entre le marché et le social, et elle sera chef de file dans la résolution des grands enjeux mondiaux. le chemin est ardu et la tâche n’est pas facile, mais ensemble nous pouvons y arriver. inspirons-nous de cet esprit optimiste et volontaire d’il y a trente ans qui a fait tomber le rideau de fer. pour en revenir à vaclav havel, il y a des millions d’européens qui s’engagent parce que c’est la bonne chose à faire. il y a ceux qui s’investissent pour renforcer leur communauté; ceux qui donnent de leur temps pour prendre soin des personnes âgées ou pour nettoyer un parc; ceux qui sortent dans la rue mais qui, aussi, changent leur style de vie pour protéger le climat. ce sont des gens qui veulent faire la différence. nous aussi, le parlement, le conseil et la commission, nous devons faire la différence. c’est dans cet esprit que j’ai construit mon équipe et c’est dans cet esprit que je suis ici, aujourd’hui, devant vous, pour demander votre confiance. mettons-nous au travail, afin de pouvoir dire dans trente ans, également: vive l’europe, es lebe europa, long live europe! (l’assemblée, debout, applaudit l’oratrice)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, clear priorities, well balanced, forward looking: that was the speech we heard today from ursula von der leyen. i thank you for this. the last weeks were prime time for us as the european parliament. we checked all the candidates proposed by the member states, whether they were ready for the job. not everybody was ready for the job, but finally we now have commissioners in front of us who the responsible committee gave the green light to. the epp was always insisting during the whole period on a transparent and fair procedure. ursula, the last weeks and months were challenging for you, but you were finally very successful. you worked hard and presented to us today your new college: the team for the leadership for europe. together we delivered, and today, hopefully with the full support of this house, we can also give the new commission a strong democratic legitimacy. one of the key achievements of your team is the better gender balance – the improvement of gender balance. we have more female commissioners than ever before, and i’m proud to say, as an epp responsible politician, that from the epp part of the college, we have 50% women, so we achieved our goal to get a 50% balance. others still have to work on this, and we brought, as the epp, the first female commission president-in-office, so for us it’s not only about sunday speeches; for us, we deliver when it is about gender balance. (applause) and we have a good mixture from experienced colleagues like johannes hahn, like phil hogan, valdis dombrovskis and mariya gabriel. we have new commissioners like stella kyriakides, margaritis schinas and olivér várhelyi, and we have two colleagues who served for years in the european parliament: adina vălean and dubravka šuica. so from our team as epp, we have a good mixture and we count on their contribution. my group, the european people’s party, got in the last elections 40 million votes, and we have now the responsibility to deliver what our people, our voters, ask us to do. as the biggest party in europe, in the european parliament, in the group we want to deliver now. in 2024 we will have implemented an ambitious and smart climate policy based on innovation, without attacking farmers and without doing politics against the industry. in 2024 we will have achieved a situation whereby the european union has a master plan against cancer. we will have achieved, in 2024, to build up five million new jobs. and we have to stop the brain drain between east and west. in 2024 we will have agreed on further trade agreements; when trump is building up trade walls, we as europeans have to build up trade bridges. and in 2024 we will have transformed europol into a full european fbi, where the mafia and organised crime is really under pressure. in 2024 we will have defined the final borders of europe. turkey is a strong partner, but turkey cannot become a member of the european union. and in 2024 we will have established a strong european border and coast guard with at least 10 000 frontex officers to protect our borders, so it is they and not the smugglers who decide who is arriving in europe. that is what we have in mind when we speak about delivering. that’s why the european people’s party will today vote in favour of the commission. let’s start now to deliver our promises. ambitious projects are important – no doubt about this. but in the coming years there is even more at stake. we feel our societies are falling apart. our european common feeling is more and more under attack because of the split between people who feel threatened by globalisation and those who enjoy the new opportunities. what makes europe unique is at stake. a feeling of belonging is needed so much; identity is needed so much. all of us know how to describe our national identity: by our history, by our achievements, our culture. but we, as europeans – can we describe our way of living, our european way of life? even in the poorest countries in europe we have a health system based on solidarity; in the us they are still discussing obamacare. all over europe the death penalty is forbidden; that’s not the case at global level. democracy, rule of law, equal treatment of men and women; and, as the headline for the european way of life 30 years after the fall of the berlin wall, freedom: freedom of speech, of religion, of the press. i’m fascinated by the chinese culture but i don’t want to live the chinese way of life, and the americans will always be europe’s closest partner – but i don’t want to live the american way of life. i prefer the european way of life. we will always protect, promote and guarantee the european way of life. i like being a european, and the next five years will decide whether europe keeps its heart and soul, or whether it will be pushed aside in a more and more brutal world. the epp is ready to work together with all democratic groups in this house for a better europe. this epp have proven, in the tradition of de gasperi, of adenauer, schuman and helmut kohl, that we fight for a united europe. the people count on us. let’s start now to deliver. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the mrs von der leyen, in july we gave you a vote of confidence - even though you were not our candidate - because you promised to include in your work programme priorities which are fundamental to us. you agreed to make the ecological transformation the main focus of the next legislature. and furthermore, he pledged to do it in a fair way, leaving no one behind. we want to get to work as soon as possible, but we need to be sure that he will not let us down. before the hearings began, the socialists and democrats gave our final vote that this great goal of environmental, economic and social sustainability be materialized with very concrete measures that transform and improve the lives of our citizens. that's what we're here for. that's what we've been chosen for. for this reason, and in order to ensure the competence of each and every one of the commissioners, my political group has acted with responsibility and rigor during the hearings of the 26 commissioners who will be part of your future college. because this time we can't fail. we cannot fail the young people who demonstrate every friday to tell us that the planet and its future are at stake. we cannot fail women, and that is why, thanks to our pressure, the most equal commission in history has been worked to completion. our group will continue to fight for gender equality, not only in the number of posts but also in the policies to be implemented. one of them should be to try to put an end to the scourge of gender violence with a european directive. (applause) nor can we fail to take care of the many citizens who are concerned about their territory being depopulated for lack of opportunities. and that's why we're committed to an ambitious just transition fund with additional resources, to help make the ecological transition socially just and leave no one behind. we have five years to prove that politics does have solutions. that unity is strength and that europe has much to say in an increasingly turbulent world. we will not listen to the fear mongers, who want to go back and renationalize policies. we know that only together and together can we meet these great challenges. and for that we need a strong commission, a courageous commission, a commission capable of creating new dynamism, overcoming the old policies. the new challenges require new forms of policy making, an increasingly complex reality. and the best guide to renewing our principles, to ensuring the sustainability of our social model and to ensuring the coherence of our policies are the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda. we are glad that, thanks to our request, you have accepted that each individual commissioner, and all of them as a college, are responsible for implementing them, as well as their integration into the european semester, a fundamental issue. we are very pleased that the green new deal is the priority of the future european commission, and we know that frans timmermans will do an excellent job. the climate emergency cannot wait. (applause) and for us, more than a "green agenda", for the socialists, it will be a "watermelon agenda", green on the outside and red on the inside. the european union must recover its social soul and put people and the fight against inequalities at the heart of political action, and this requires very concrete policies. in the previous legislature we laid the foundations for a european social pillar which we must now develop. the socialists and democrats have a battery of proposals to strengthen the european social pillar and the financial and fiscal architecture of the union, and i can assure you that we will continue to insist on this over the next five years. and these same principles of respect for human dignity, solidarity and justice must also guide foreign policy, which, i must say, could not be in better hands. josep borrell has the enormous task of trying to assert our interests and our values: peace, rules and multilateralism in a world of enormous turbulence. we will also be demanding on the respect of the principles in immigration policy and trade policy. we will lose our legitimacy if we do not do it this way, if we are not consistent. and let us be ambitious with the next budget too. we can't do more with less. and new projects need more money. our group will therefore be very demanding with the new multiannual financial framework. finally, we socialists and democrats do not consider the battle for greater european democratization to be lost. we want to improve and strengthen the spitzenkandidaten system and to discuss transnational lists again. we will therefore be fully involved in the next conference on the future of europe. the european union is being built day by day, and that is why it is so exciting. paul-henri spaak, one of the fathers of the european project, said that scientific experiments are tried over and over again until they succeed. it must not be less our experiment for a united, prosperous, just and equal europe. what we do in this parliament will be a major factor in the continuity of the european union project and in the citizens' confidence in the institutions. the socialists and the democrats are very clear about this. we want to be up to the task and that is why we will support this college of commissioners with our demanding, loyal and vigilant vote today. we hope that this commission will be aware of this and act responsibly. we play too much. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president-elect, ladies and gentlemen, this committee is the result of a rigorous examination process which this parliament has reserved for it but which should make it stronger. it will now have to fulfil its commitments, those which ursula von der leyen has presented to us here. i ask this commission to show us three things: vision, passion and ambition. this is the only way to prepare europe for the new challenges of the world and, at the same time, to inspire citizens. we need enthusiasm to carry out these projects. mrs von der leyen spoke of a geopolitical committee; this is all very well, but it requires profound changes. as a group, we have put forward four main priorities. first, we have the ambition to make europe the first carbon neutral continent by 2050, and its economy will have to be ready to meet this challenge. this will be possible with entrepreneurs, farmers and researchers ready to act. so let's invest in transition with a just transition fund and a climate bank, with a budget that's up to the task. secondly, digital technology is already transforming our society, offering enormous opportunities for citizens and our economy, but it also carries risks. in the face of this development, let us build leading companies in this field and help our small and medium-sized enterprises by facilitating their access to funding within a regulatory framework for artificial intelligence, including through a real european data strategy. i'm sure margrethe vestager and thierry breton will be up to the task. thirdly, in five years' time, will europe still speak on an equal footing with china and the united states and will it still be a voice heard in africa? we must also show that we are capable of managing an asylum and migration policy that lives up to our values, of building a trade policy with sustainability clauses that are effectively implemented, and of building a true europe of defence, but open to partnerships. to do this, we need to reconnect citizens to europe. we want a european democracy which is not just elections every five years, but in which everyone feels involved. this is precisely the mission of the conference on the future of europe, of which my group will be a driving force. this will be the way to remove the institutional obstacles which prevent the union from acting as it should. the syndrome of too little too late must be eradicated once and for all. otherwise it will not be mr schinas with his wallet, but the americans or, worse, the chinese who will decide tomorrow on our way of life.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to ms von der leyen that, madam president, your commission is a chance for a new beginning, and we hope there will be a new beginning. my group will support you in many things. we will definitely support you in finding a compromise on the budget. we will support you in the opening up of the single market in services, in finding a lasting solution to migration and in implementing ambitious climate plans, but let me emphasise we will give full support to the communities whose livelihoods are threatened by the absurd ramping-up of climate ambitions. please keep in mind that there is not, and there never will be, an eu nation. the eu is made up of 26 (or 28, if you will) sovereign countries, and no two countries are the same. do not try to take away power from member states by removing the rights of veto. remember that the institution that sets the eu’s agenda is the european council, not the european parliament. please do not continue the previous commission’s practice of violating the letter and the spirit of the treaties to enforce the process of integration. despite what you hear in this chamber or in meeting rooms in brussels, there is a completely different view of what the eu is or what the eu should and shouldn’t be in communities across our member states, so please let this be about evidence-based policy, not policy-based evidence. ms von der leyen, good luck.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs von der leyen, after months of bickering and wrangling among the various souls who make up this majority, we finally have a commission. unfortunately, at the moment of the greatest crisis in the european institutions, we will have the weakest commission, a commission which was born lame and which, by its words or by what it has promised in the last five months, also seems to be a blind commission, a commission which has not understood the message of the european citizens and which refuses to propose a radically different approach to the problems facing our citizens today. in your speech today you spoke of gender balance, you spoke of the green new deal, but unfortunately what european citizens think about when they wake up in the morning is not whether the european commission has a gender balance, they think about how to get to the end of the month, they think about how to find a job, they think about how to support their salaries. and also on the green new deal your approach seems very ideological and we would not like this to lead to an additional competitive disadvantage for our companies. europe has already done so much in terms of reducing emissions, others are outside doing their job. we do not want your measures on this subject to impose an additional burden on our businesses and to impose an additional burden on our economies. i have not heard of the very important elements. we know that there are threats to our competitiveness from outside, but i have not heard any proposals on how to correct the functioning of our internal market, i have not heard about social and wage dumping within the union, i have not heard about fiscal dumping and deindustrialization, which are processes within the union that distort our internal market. proudly this group will say no today to those who, by their immobility, really want to destroy europe. my suggestion is: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the new commission takes office at a time when the climate emergency doesn’t leave us much time to act. we’re happy to see that climate and environmental issues are a key priority for the new commission and, by the way, also a key priority for more than 90% of the european population. however, we’re not so sure that the headlines will be followed by concrete action because if the commission, as it has announced, does not change its agricultural and trade policy, then any climate measure will remain half—hearted. we are also happy to see that more women than ever are part of the commission, even though it’s curious to see that some governments couldn’t find any women in their country. so, more work needs to be done to ensure a gender balance and also an overall better representation of european society in the commission. we have found in the hearings some very good candidates, but also some that made us have doubts – doubts on conflict of interest and how serious you are on european values, on the rule of law and on women’s rights. madam president—elect, we will not support a commission that is not clear on those issues. but be sure that, whenever you take an initiative that protects the climate, that strengthens a social europe and that enhances the rule of law, we are more than ready to support you. but we will also point out when we think that the commission is taking a wrong turn or is being too timid. europe needs decisive action now and we hope that you will feel the courage and the strength to push for change, to stand up against the council when needed, and to base your work on european values, such as human rights for all and on the rule of law. we want you to act because it’s high time and that’s why we don’t give you a red card, even though we have pointed out all of those problems i’ve mentioned today at various times and we haven’t seen them addressed. but we also don’t want to give you a blank cheque either and that’s why our group has decided to abstain today as a head start in terms of trust that we hope will be justified. we’re looking forward to a good cooperation with you and we wish you and your college all the strength, all the courage and energy that it takes not just to hold our continent together, but to bring it forward. (applause)
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, there are many things on which this commission will have to demonstrate its determination, its efficiency and its ability to convince the member states and the citizens that they have every reason to believe in its plans. however, we must acknowledge that europe has never had a commission with such a high level of ambition for the environment and digital, with a viewpoint that seems effective and promising. we have never had a commission that applies gender equality in this way, because gender equality is important to all of us, because equality also means giving everyone the opportunity to express themselves. we have never had a commission that is committed to promoting the rule of law and protecting individual freedoms. we have never had such a dialogue to build a political agenda together. parliament has put its stamp on this programme. our group will therefore support your commission, madam president. i would like to say, however, that this will not be a blank check. i hope that all those who have made the environment, equality and the rule of law their banner will do the same and take responsibility rather than just express wishes. for the programme to be implemented, we must build a clear, honest and trusting partnership here in parliament, because without trust there will be no results, and without the prospect of results, renew cannot be part of the game. we shall therefore be very attentive to the proposals that will be put forward. each commissioner has a key role to play in bringing europe back to life, with a vision, ambition and passion for europe. from east to west, from north to south, we all have a clear mission here, to make the european project more attractive, and we will not achieve this with grand declarations or just beautiful promises, but with facts and measures that will make europe tangible and useful in the daily lives of our citizens. that is the commission we are going to vote for, madam president.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. this is your first shift, your first speech as a member of the european commission, so congratulations! i voted for you for the second time in five years, and i wish you and the commission every success. i'll put it this way, we need to talk very openly about this outside interference. you can't demonize this. this is a big problem, although it would not be right for those who lose elections to see the sources of their defeat as interference from outside. it's not serious. i would be careful not to take such a one-sided view of the problem, that is, if i hear in the speech that there is no problem with russia at all and that there is only steve and there is no vladimir vladimirovich, then i have the impression that someone is here in the virtual world, and i invite you to the real world. of course russia - but not only russia - is interfering, we should know this, we should denounce this, we should be in solidarity here.
mr president, democracy is part of our genetic matrix. we have fought hard for it and we are a global reference in the rule of law, freedom of expression and political choice. but today we are faced with new, diffuse challenges, disseminated by the ever-growing torrent of information, true or manipulated, inducing emotions and contexts that influence voter outcomes and choice, from virtual territories not bounded by physical borders. and that's why we have to wage a global fight. and what weapons do we have? widespread digital literacy and universal access to the internet are a key foundation. the implementation of shared values as the embryo of a european digital identity is very urgent. the deepening of an internal code of ethics and its inclusion in our international partnerships makes more sense than ever, commissioner. we must unite around the defence of european democracy and make every citizen a soldier in this fight, before others continue to recruit them to ultimately weaken us.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak today about responsibility. the first is the responsibility of those who order, direct or finance actions to undermine democratic processes in our member states. let's be very clear, this is a form of asymmetrical aggression that russia is responsible for and our political response must remain as firm as possible. secondly, we are talking about a responsibility of those who manage the technologies used for such subversive actions. the code of conduct signed with the major online platforms is a good step. whether that's enough remains to be seen. we must preserve our political space for analysis and judgement and demand from these platforms the highest possible degree of transparency and accountability. the third is our responsibility, the responsibility of the european institutions. if we take these threats to democracy seriously, we need to allocate the resources to combat them. it's a responsibility i propose we seriously discuss in future budget debates. thank you. thank you.
madam president, i would like to refer to two eastern partnership countries, ukraine and the republic of moldova. ukraine is a country that has been hit hard by the russian federation, a country that has lost crimea, that has a civil war that's actually hidden in the east of the territory, a country that has ports that are often blocked to the black sea. why is that? because the russian federation cannot accept this country's orientation towards the european union. the solution for ukraine to remain whole is to be supported and helped by european experts, showing the government the error of the steinmeier plan. it's the risk of losing eastern ukraine, because there will be a referendum after federation and there will be a declaration of independence, like in ossetia, abkhazia, crimea. it's the russian technique. regarding the republic of moldova, unfortunately mrs maia sandu has deliberately and alone entered the situation of losing the government. in moldova, there is a paradox. the opposition, which is made up of two pro-european parties, is seeing a tough, minority government by the pro-russian dodon. it is time for the european union, which is investing money, to ask the two leaders of the opposition, and which, i repeat, constitute the majority, to do their duty to the republic of moldova, by reorienting the country, taking over the government and reorienting the country to the west.
madam president, a direct message to those targeted. the dismissal and quick replacement of the pro-european government in chisinau as a result of the courage of maia sandu not to play president dodon's game and not to subordinate justice to the political interests of oligarchs or the proposal of the government in tbilisi to change the electoral law so that the power to secure its seats in parliament are big steps back on the road to europe. the guilty must feel responsible, because they are taking their citizens away from the european union and its benefits. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the light of the progress made in the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. otherwise any anti-reform government turns the discourse into an anti-eu one and we're forever starting over. the countries in the eastern neighbourhood must really be a priority for the new commission, and the door to europe must remain open, investing in these countries economically, energetically and really funding pro-democracy, pro-justice and pro-rule of law reforms.
madam president, the eastern partnership i think is the greatest foreign policy achievement of the last ten years, but it needs to be developed. i am from iasi, romania, and i appreciate many of the cross-border projects, and romania can be an example of good practice in terms of cross-border emergency healthcare with the republic of moldova or in terms of scholarships. on the other hand, i can tell you that in addition to the 200 projects, you can introduce others. the people of the republic of moldova, the romanian citizens of the republic of moldova want those roaming charges to be the same as in the european union. they have relatives who have gone abroad and they cannot call them, or on the other hand they can also work in europe because, if we are in this phase where people are the most important, we can thus gain their trust in the values of the european union and, why not, easily reach the european union on that highway of union financed by european funds from targu mures and iasi and chisinau. i am convinced that you can include these projects in what you want to develop, and the eastern partnership will move to a new stage, because beyond geostrategy, beyond politics, people are the most important, and i see those there, even in the east, as european citizens for the next ten years.
mr president, i would like to welcome ms mogherini’s balanced presentation regarding the situation in israel and the palestinian territories. i would also like to remind this chamber and the people who are following our debate that israel is the only democracy in the middle east, and maybe we should put more of our energy into persuading all countries in the area to also follow the path of a real democracy. i believe many things would be easier to solve in the middle east, including peace. coming to the settlement issues, i think this should be part of the framework of negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority. sanctioning only one side has never contributed to the promotion of peace. israel is an ally and a friend and an important trade partner. also when it comes to security, innovation, agriculture, fighting terrorism, or even fighting climate change, israel has so much to give europe. so we should not alienate friends by pointing them out every single time without going deeper into the region’s background and complicated reality. i call on the eu to remain an honest and balanced broker. it’s the only way we can reach a long-term agreement, and hopefully, peace in the region.
mr president, unfortunately this revolting situation has been going on for far too long, and what is happening there is indescribable, a real scourge on the face of the world in the 21st century. i am an emergency doctor and i see that behind the political games there are lives, there are people, there are lives lost and a lot of suffering, and i think it is time for the european union, the european parliament, to bring all those involved to the negotiating table, so that the right solution can be found and no one has to suffer from today onwards. it has been too long and i hope that at least the new european commission will find the healthy solution so that such abominable acts do not happen again. i hope that this situation can be resolved and that the solution is here in the european union.
madam president, tehran, beirut and baghdad are three sore points on the world map at this time and instead of bread and democracy, people are getting bullets and violence. i'm saddened that it's my colleagues, doctors, who are dying right now while defending their patients. but i wonder whether we, the european parliament, have done enough so far. and what is needed is an international mechanism for intervention, for transparency and for the protection of those who are suffering at this moment. and, commissioner, i have a question: what measures do you leave to the next commission so that such things do not happen again and, if possible, tell me if there is a specific time limit for their implementation.
mr president, the restoration and protection of the european forest is obviously a major political issue. but i hear the argument and i think we should stop being hypocrites. we are protecting ourselves and trying to protect the european forest, but we are exporting deforestation by signing trade agreements which encourage the destruction of forests, and in particular of primary forests. i refer you to our forthcoming trade agreement with vietnam and our trade agreement with mercosur, which is being negotiated and is an incentive to deforestation. so there must be an end to this hypocrisy. there is an ecological problem - everyone has said this - but there is also a social problem, which we have rightly mentioned when we talk about the environmentalists who are now criminalised, sometimes even persecuted. i also have a thought for the forestry and forestry workers, who live in very degraded social conditions, with a proven social dumping, and suffer from the reduction in the number of workers. i am also thinking of privatisation, for example of the national forestry office in france. these forestry and timber workers must be protected. finally, i think we need better coordination of european policies. we have a lot of scattered texts, whereas we need an ambitious and harmonious forestry legislative package that integrates all our thinking on agricultural policy, organic development and trade policy. this is the real work of our legislature.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i would like to ask my distinguished colleague if he agrees with what has happened in romania and i say that it is a good thing that from today forestry workers in romania have the right to carry lethal weapons, firearms, precisely to be able to defend themselves better and if he thinks that this could be extended to other forestry workers in the european union.
mr president, i have asked to speak on a number of points. first of all, i would say that the european union must continue to help the member states to restore forests in the next programming period. it is true that the area of forests in europe has increased, but it is also true that their quality has deteriorated in many parts, as a result of climate change, fluctuations, particularly drought, and pests. i think that once again the regional development fund will have to support the efforts of forestry in reforestation. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the hundreds of volunteers in the czech republic who have been involved in the restoration of the forest this year. thousands of acres, i think it's a demonstration that people don't care about the state of the lungs of this planet. and we, the members of the european parliament, care how the brazilian president has dealt with the fires in the amazon. i ask the commission to follow the initiative of president tusk, who has offered to help and has asked for the cuts to be intensive, otherwise we will not sign the mercosur agreement. if brazil doesn't put out its fire in the amazon, i won't agree to the mercosur deal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for almost all of you highlighting romania in your speeches, thank you very much. the forests of romania, as each of you said, cry every day. i'm crying because the axes are talking. every hour hectares of forest are disappearing, and yes, this is happening in europe, where the priorities are protecting the environment and reducing emissions. i would like the european union to be more actively involved in countries where the forest is not respected, and i am pleased, commissioner, that you have highlighted romania in your speech today, and i thank you for your visit to bucharest this year. the european union's position on national policies that do not respect forests will need to be more effective, clearer. negligence can lead to natural disasters, the loss of rare ecosystems and the loss of human lives. we're going to have to spend decades, maybe even hundreds of years, to replant the areas that have been lost. our generation has a responsibility to maintain and keep them healthy for future generations, and thank you again for highlighting romania in your speeches, but let's give forests the importance they deserve in all this green platform we're talking about.
in writing. – the new un environment programme report warns that unless global greenhouse gas emissions fall by 7.6% each year between 2020 and 2030, the world will miss the opportunity to get on track towards the 1.5 c temperature goal of the paris agreement. thus, it is high time we realise how important forests are. as 43% of eu land is covered by forests, their role go well beyond carbon neutrality. a sustainable and active forest management contributes also to climate change mitigation and adaptation, improves energy security, creates jobs and promotes economic growth. therefore, it is essential to ensure coordination among various forest-related eu policies. the main tool to do that is the european green new deal, as it provides a framework for a well-coordinated action at eu level. therefore, i hope forests will play an important role in this document, which is to be presented soon. i cannot forget what is happening with forests back in my country, romania - almost 600 forest rangers have been killed or seriously injured combatting illegal logging, while 3 hectares of forests are illegally cut every hour. i put all my hope and i will fight to protect eu forests.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs mogherini. i see that during his tenure there have been so many situations, like you should be a firefighter, you go to put out a situation in one place and immediately there is a human rights violation in another place. i hope that the next high representative will continue this work and develop it. but on the other hand, i think it is time for this parliament, for us, the meps elected by the european people, to find an international, transparent way to monitor these human rights and to check and condemn those who commit flagrant violations in this area. the way i see it, the 21st century is about human rights, and i hope that together we can find that solution. once again, good luck and thank you for what you've done so far.
madam president, today, 28 november 2019, the european parliament declares a state of climate and environmental emergency. it is a symbolic and historic moment, and i am proud, by my vote, to have contributed to it. europe, which has contributed to the climate catastrophe since the industrial revolution, has a duty of responsibility to the people of the world, to the species and to the young people of the world who are calling us to act now. so we must act now to ensure that life on earth remains possible for the human species and for all species that have entered an unprecedented wave of extinction. it is no longer urgent to wait, it is urgent to act.
madam president, i would like to explain why i have finally held off on this resolution. i think that the european parliament is calling for very ambitious targets, and i think it is the duty of the european union to support member states in reducing carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases. the goals that have been proposed are ambitious. even the 50 percent that is currently on the table for 2030 is an ambitious target. an increase to fifty-five percent without knowing the implications was not, in my opinion, possible. that's why i got held up. i am glad that we have finally voted in favour of a provision in this resolution which would prohibit the further use of nuclear energy for energy production, which i think would be absolutely unmanageable for many countries. so i got held up.
madam president, i did not support the resolution on the climate and environmental emergency because, although there is climate change, the measures proposed in it affect the sovereignty and interests of the member states in a way that violates their interest. i strongly disagree with attempts to raise the agreed level of ambition by 2030 and the european nationally determined contribution. moreover, such a change so soon after the adoption of the legislation would imperil legal certainty and lead to a complete lack of predictability for the industry and the economy as a whole. the impact of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, which will lead to a real increase in the industrial targets of the remaining member states, must also be taken into account. i'm from bulgaria. it's a country that's an external border of the european union. imposing such a large reduction would put our country at risk of shifting production across the border to third countries outside the european union and would shift carbon emissions to countries where such measures are not in place.
madam president, i support this resolution and welcome parliament’s ambitious agenda on climate change for the next five years. reaching the ambitious objectives set out at cop21 in paris, where i was honoured to represent parliament, is of the utmost importance if we are to honour the wishes of eu citizens and avoid further irreversible damage to our planet. while the eu continues to be a world leader on climate action, this has to be an international effort, and the need for greater collective ambition must be recognised. it is vital that the climate change debate is inclusive and leaves nobody behind, and for this reason i take issue with the provision to phase out fossil fuel subsidies by 2020. while we need to move away from fossil subsidies, ending them by 2020 next year would deny citizens access to much-needed fuel allowances. this is a gradual process, and ending fuel allowances next year would have a severe impact on low-income families and pensioners who cannot otherwise afford heating for their homes. as commission president von der leyen said: ‘the transition to renewable energy sources must be fair and inclusive, as it is ambitious’.
madam president, i voted against the istanbul convention for very clear reasons. this document is anything but a document that aims to protect women's rights and protect them from violence. it is a document that represents the emanation of a propaganda that i find unacceptable, namely gender propaganda that is invading schools, universities, that is destroying communities, that is destroying traditional families in eastern european countries. it is no coincidence that a number of eastern european member states are against it. not because they are against violence against women, but because they are against this propaganda that aims to replace our traditional values, something that we cannot and will not agree with. it is unacceptable and unacceptable to formulate and define the social role of gender. gender is biology and there is no choice. he can't be and never will be a social oddity or some kind of choice. it's pure and simple biology. for that reason, this document is inadmissible. we in bulgaria have not ratified it and we will not ratify it.
madam president, i could not support the resolution which again calls on all the remaining states of the european union to ratify the istanbul convention without delay. it specifically designates bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania, slovakia and the united kingdom to do so without delay. i believe that this is a mystification, an attempt to create the impression that the adoption of the istanbul convention is the solution. the solution is really fighting violence against women, and i know this from examples in the czech republic, which has adopted a law against domestic violence, which has adopted measures within the criminal code, within education and other measures to effectively combat violence against women. it didn't need to ratify the istanbul convention. and i insist that this is the competence of the member states, and the european parliament should not be constantly asking the member states to do something they do not want to do.
madam president, i voted in favour, recognising that violence against women and girls mostly goes unreported. last year alone, almost 40 000 women and girls in my home region were known survivors of domestic abuse, and over 8 000 experienced sexual violence. these shocking numbers have no place in our society, and i’m appalled that the istanbul convention has not yet been ratified by the united kingdom. we can’t claim to be a leading economy, a world power, if we’re systematically failing some of our most vulnerable and most valuable citizens. enough is enough. our society must be a safe place for our daughters, our sisters, our mothers. no more holding our keys when we walk home at night, no more ‘what did she wear, what did she drink?’ no more shutting us down when we speak up. europe must now criminalise violence against women and girls.
madam president, in 2017, 1 998 women intentionally killed; 87 983 women raped; 123 871 subject to sexual assaults across 22 eu member states. those numbers are shocking, they are shameful, they are frightening, and they are why we have to pass the strongest possible laws at every level against violence against women. and in that year, 2017, in my own country, 250 intentional homicides against women. it’s outrageous that my government in the uk has not yet ratified the istanbul convention, but it’s also outrageous that as a direct result of funding cuts and austerity under this government, rape crisis centres and refuges and other vital services are struggling to keep their doors open. austerity is putting the safety of women at risk.
the uachtaráin, that brown orm as ucht an bhotúin sin. i voted in favour and fully support all progress towards eu accession to the istanbul convention, which is the most comprehensive international treaty in fighting violence against women. tragically, one third of all women and girls experience physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. furthermore, many victims are afraid to come forward and report such incidents. this is unacceptable and we must take the necessary steps to enact meaningful change for women across europe. this much is clear. the convention, which was ratified by ireland earlier this year, is the first in europe to set legally binding standards specifically to prevent gender-based violence. the eu's accession to the convention would reaffirm our commitment to achieving gender balance. i'm trying to get the member states to put the istanbul convention into law themselves and to do something about it.
madam president, i voted against this resolution. an independent judiciary is impossible if there is a state monopoly on historic truth. in lithuania, any deviation from the formula that only armed forces of the ussr were responsible for the deaths of 14 demonstrators on 13 january 1991 is a subject for criminal responsibility, and the journalist and politician of lithuania, algirdas paleckis, who declared during a radio discussion that ‘it appears that in january 1991 our own people were shooting at their natives’, was sentenced to a fine, despite the fact that he found several witnesses and ballistic assessments showing that there were secret snipers on the roofs who were shooting civilians on 13 january 1991. recently algirdas was even arrested and accused of spying for russia. lithuania should abolish political restrictions on discussing and investigating the events of 13 january 1991.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution. as a former minister of justice of the czech republic, i believe that we need to challenge the independence of the courts in any member country. unlike my preface, i don't think this is a question of interpreting the interpretation of what happened in lithuania in 1991. it's a question of the rule of law. independent judges and investigators and prosecutors have somehow made a decision, have a legal opinion, and someone is discriminating against them for it. it's a foreign country, it's russia, that's the point of the dispute. i am not willing or able to interpret 1991 in lithuania, but it bothers me as a lawyer and a man who has spent his life defending the rule of law that a judge is sanctioned for his legal opinion. this is unacceptable, we must reject this and we must stand behind the lithuanian judges, because lithuanian justice is european justice, and this concerns the whole of the european union and therefore also us, if we defend the principles of the rule of law.
madam president, i voted in favour. the ancient airbus—boeing dispute over aerospace subsidies is now spilling over to hurt other businesses. never mind who’s right or wrong, we now have an adverse ruling from the wto that we have to deal with, and four eu member states have been singled out. all have reacted strongly, except the uk. the french, german and spanish governments, and the european commission, have said that they will respond in kind with their own tariffs. meanwhile, our international trade secretary expressed her disappointment, providing absolutely no relief to scotch whisky producers now facing 25% tariffs. the tories have been hypnotised by the us. they continue to expect a golden era of transatlantic trade relations and free trade post-brexit against all of the evidence. trump’s ‘america first’ trade agenda is a direct threat to british jobs and our prosperity, but the tories are blinded to it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because it touches on an issue of enormous importance, namely tariffs. the european union has always tried to open up its markets and to conclude trade agreements with third countries. the new tariffs imposed by the united states are weakening the so-called euro-atlantic partnership. the food industry is one of the most important in the member states and is of course dependent on decisions taken in washington, which will increase the instability of the internal markets and of our producers. it is not normal and it is not moral that because of the commercial dispute between two competing companies, namely airbus and boeing, an entire sector of this industry is affected. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair. the commission should do everything possible to address this situation and avoid further budget cuts in the sector by entering into immediate negotiations with the united states of america to find a solution.
madam president, i would like to explain why i voted for this resolution. given that the world trade organization has found some wrongdoing in the european union's handling of the airbus bailout, we have no choice but to accept a $7.5 billion sanction. but it is unthinkable that european farmers should pay for this mistake. exports of european agricultural products to the usa amounted to more than eur 22500 million in 2018. that makes the u.s. one of the most important export destinations, and we don't want to go to war with the u.s. we want to have a good relationship with them. that's why the european union and the united states need to come to an agreement. we cannot wait for the boeing decision and go to war with the us on trade, but we must act and support those parts of the agricultural sector that would be affected by these, say, us sanctions. the european union must be united and united in this.
madam president, i voted in favour, as for many brexiteers the wto has become the land of milk and honey, with donald trump in the role of moses, leading the british people to the promised land of global free trade. but what their story doesn’t say is that trump has been busy destroying the wto for the past three years, and he’s about to succeed. because of the us, the wto will effectively cease to function in exactly two weeks’ time. another example of the many lies used to justify brexit to the british people. the truth is that from the perspective of international trade, the eu is by far the best option for britain. only the eu can resolve this situation and get the wto up and running again. we’ve seen determined and concrete efforts in brussels to keep uk—exporting businesses afloat. what we get from the tories is myth and rhetoric.
the next item on the agenda is oral question to the commission on 0800 customer service numbers, tabled by andreas schwab, christian ehler, pilar del castillo vera, angelika niebler, róża thun und hohenstein, edina tóth, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000037/2019 – b9 0059/2019) (2019/2937(rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the subject we have chosen this afternoon for our oral question to the commission is: what is the state of play of the internal electronic market for telephone services? we have already discussed this on several occasions with many other colleagues in the committee on the internal market. the subject of this afternoon's debate is a very local one here in the strasbourg area. a german citizen told me that his mother-in-law was in hospital in strasbourg and that he had not been able to call her during her stay there because the hospital there kindly offered a free service number for french citizens, which was not available from another european country, which in this situation was only a few kilometres away. i think, commissioner gabriel, that we must deal with the question in a very specific way: can the european internal telecommunications market be such that, although we have abolished crossborder roaming charges, citizens can no longer call their in-laws in a neighbouring country simply because of a 0800 number? in my view, this is indisputable, because the advantage of the 0800 number is precisely that it should be easy for citizens to call - free of charge - and if it is impossible to do so across borders, we have done a disservice to the european single market. i would therefore like to know from the commission - and i would like to know from all the members present this afternoon - what we can do to correct this error, to ensure that not only does the bill for crossborder calls remain low, but that crossborder accessibility is also reliably solved for service numbers. it is therefore important that the european commission gives us a clear answer here. this evil must be removed.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament for drawing our attention to this important issue. the european commission considers it important to guarantee access to the 0 800 number. we will look at this in detail, first because - as you have just rightly said, mr schwab - this is a crucial issue for the completion of the digital single market. companies generally use 0 800 numbers to provide better service to their customers. this is often a decision to help in a way that is easier and more effective. in the case of a toll-free 0 800 number, the cost of the call is passed on to the called party, for example a company with a customer service telephone. in order to avoid any risk of fraud and to protect the caller from the high costs of calls from abroad, especially for small ngos such as the cancer helpline, national and european legislation does not prohibit callers from rejecting calls from abroad. so far, it is clear that we have not received many complaints, but i do not trust that. it is not a question of whether there are many or few, we are talking about something essential and concrete. i would therefore like to see what other means we have at our disposal. draw your attention to the directive establishing the new european electronic communications code. you remember, we adopted it last year. the new code introduced a number of measures aimed specifically at combating crossborder distortions and eliminating their effects. it is therefore clear that the code will contribute to the completion of the single market. it is currently scheduled to enter into force in december 2020, and the commission is working closely with member states to help them implement it. of course, the european parliament is always welcome in this process. we will have the same objective: to ensure that the new measures established by the code are operational after december next year, and we will monitor them closely. we shall therefore continue to follow this matter. the completion of the digital single market is a top priority and we are already well advanced. we now have a set of policies, investment measures and regulatory initiatives that have given european businesses important tools for digital competitiveness and, at the same time, strengthened user rights. as you know, we have abolished roaming charges throughout the european union. recently we introduced reduced rates for international calls within the member states. these two measures have contributed greatly to making european consumers feel that they are concerned by a genuine digital single market policy. at this stage, i can assure you that the commission will continue to monitor closely the development of the situation with access to the 0800 number and it is on this basis that further measures will be taken, depending - i repeat - on the development of the situation. today's debate is also a contribution for which we thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. thank you very much for this ambitious statement, which we take very seriously here, because indeed infolines are very popular in many sectors: in the banking sector, in mobile networks and many others. they are also crucial for road information, rail information, consumer information and many more. but when we are abroad, we cannot always use the consumer helpline, because i have experienced this myself. instead of information about my consumer rights or other advice, i hear: "the number is currently unavailable". and so will anyone who wants to contact the 24-hour free helpline for children, for young people, for parents, for educators. instead of getting professional help from experienced psychologists, educators, experienced lawyers, there's silence on the phone. according to data available in my country, poland, from the national health fund, the hotline handles nearly 40,000 calls a month. i don't see any obstacles why the hotline service in poland could not be available to people outside my country who are in poland and urgently need information about the availability of hospitals for example for themselves or someone close to them, and have a number that doesn't start with +48. the next step is obviously to consider the question of universal service for such foreign-language hotlines once they have been internationalised, because i fully agree with the commissioner that - as we all know - the law, technical or administrative solutions must make our lives easier, they must make the lives of european union citizens easier, rather than creating barriers and obstacles to communication. and finally, andreas schwab rightly reminded us that we won with roaming or international calling prices. i am therefore absolutely determined to work on extending the operation of the national hotlines to international calls and i am confident that we will achieve this in good cooperation with the new european commission (to which i wish every success).
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am happy to be here to work again for the telecommunication operators and then the citizens’ needs, and i see the internal market of the telecommunication as an essential part. during the last mandate, europe has taken important steps towards the regulation of the international calls lately, which will come to power only at the end of next year and will also lower the price there. and then we know the success story of the roaming. i’m happy to be the rapporteur and see that results have been causing more happiness than these problems. but then of course, informing the consumers is the most important. i also read the petition made by the german gentleman who was on holiday in france and wanted to call the hospital and thought it was a free number because it started 0800. so then first of all the consumer needs to know if it’s not free when they make a phone call. but i also want to look at the existing law. there are two parts. there are businesses that want to offer services across the eu. it is, of course, then in their interest also to pay the price instead of the customer. but then we do have this possibility also to use this 0800 numbers for the public services such as hospitals. i don’t very easily see the potential there to serve the citizens, because if they’re negotiating the whole euro price, instead of the one country where the hospital is located, i might think that they don’t want to serve these free phone calls for everyone, because the hospital in finland cannot serve the language of the greek grandparent or the polish friend. so it’s more complicated than the easy answer, which would be to make it free for everywhere. in finland there is a proposal now that nationwide service numbers may not be any price they want. there is now the proposal that service numbers must be included in the unlimited data prices and not have external prices as they are nowadays, not in the price regulation, because even many public services use them. so i’m curious to ask if the commission sees that possibility, that model, that those national service numbers could be the way forward then also to help the model that they are not excessive. and i’m always in favour of unlimited packages, whether it’s data or telephones. it really gives the purposes for the users to have access to digital services in a more broad way and then having that one as the main goal to make the low price for the telephone users – it serves the people best. but i’m curious also to see this cross-border situation. but we have to understand when it’s close and cross-border, it automatically talks from italy to lapland and makes more variety for the question to be understood from the pricing side.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. there is no doubt that a great deal has been achieved in recent years to create a single telecommunications market in the european union, which is a very important part of the common market. the european emergency number 112 has been created. the european electronic communications code, which the commissioner referred to, has been adopted and will be fully in force by the end of next year. the eu's roaming rules have been introduced - first for calls, then for data - although telecoms companies still exploit every loophole to charge consumers extra. unfortunately, this is still the case in my country, poland. but the progress is huge. indeed, access to 0800 numbers is perhaps one of the last barriers standing between us and the creation of a fully-fledged single telecommunications market in the european union. it's important because a lot of these numbers are business-operated numbers, as my colleague from finland said, and here, of course, we can't throw out the baby with the bathtub. we have to remember that when these restrictions are lifted, the business will incur higher costs, the costs will increase for people calling abroad. however, it should also be remembered that 0800 numbers are used for public service purposes. mr schwab, who asked the question, gives a very important example: access to medical information. in poland, many poles who work in other countries on a daily basis now have mobile phone numbers from other european union countries after the abolition of roaming charges. they, as mrs thun said, want to get information today in public hospitals and by calling 0800, they cannot get that information. so i thank commissioner gabriel very much for the very ambitious promises she has made here, and i encourage the european commission to get active on this issue.
madam president, madam commissioner, allow me first to congratulate you on your re-election and to wish you another controversial five-year term, as successful as the previous one. i start here with your achievements in the abolition of roaming and in the fight to have no roaming to the western balkans (this is provided for in this theme, this was successful). but listening to colleagues who insist on introducing this number and making it free, i wonder how much it will cost and who will pay the bill. whenever such proposals are made, there must be some reason, because we do not live in socialism, my dear colleagues, nor in communism, but we live in a union based on the idea of a single free market. there's no doubt that there should be a way for people to search for information about their loved ones, but it has to be translated through some sort of rational algorithm. so, commissioner, you have my support and i hope you will propose a sensible and workable solution to this problem. it will not be quick or cheap - that is clear to everyone - but it must be reasonable and feasible.
madam president, firstly, thanks to mr schwab for bringing this topic to our attention, and also to the commissioner for dealing with it adequately. i’ve been a member of this house now for 10 years, and each part-session, someone or other will always stand up and say: ‘we must complete the single market. we must complete the digital single market.’ now, we’ve made some good progress – obviously, roaming and geo-blocking, complementarity – we did a lot of work on that. and as she said, there’s no point in completing something unless the customers are aware of it. that’s the second point. but i would like to say to mariya gabriel, because she has a great record: wouldn’t it be great if she could be the person who could come in to this parliament over the next five years and say: ‘actually we have completed the single market, we have completed the digital single market.’ and i think the way to do it is something like what we’ve been doing. where are the obstacles? where are the loopholes? pick them off, deal with them, get them out of the way one by one and do that over the next five years and we’ll make fantastic progress. so mariya, over to you.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, i would really like to thank the european parliament for raising this important issue of access to the 0 800 number. thank you also for your support for the measures proposed and implemented so far for the completion of the digital single market. i would now like to answer in a little more detail, because the questions from mrs miapetra kumpula-natri and mr kelly were very specific. first thing...why is the cost of calls to 0800 from abroad difficult to establish? it's very clear because actually we are talking about obstacles, but it's a unilateral economic decision and in the case of calls from abroad the cost of the call may be difficult to establish as the called party cannot keep the fees such as transit and call termination fees under control, contrary to costs on a national level and may be exposed to fraudulent practices. this is why under national and european legislation it is not prohibited to refuse calls from abroad. now where we are, and what we have achieved in order to give you some european answers. first, our reference is the new code of electronic communications. we said it very clearly. it will become effective in the member states as of 21 december 2020 next year. but the code has introduced measures to avoid crossborder distortions and will further contribute to the completion of the single market. an example of such a measure is the introduction of single maximum union-wide voice termination rates by a delegated act which the commission shall adopt by the end of next year. thanks to such a measure, one of the cost elements will decrease over time and the risk of increased overall cost, transit and interconnection costs for the called party, the company contracting the free phone number, the bank or travel or agency, are therefore likely to be mitigated over time. for our part, at the european commission, we will closely monitor the development to see whether further action is needed. madam president, once again i would like to thank the members of parliament for this useful debate and for our follow-up work. as i have just said, we will continue to monitor the market and developments in this area in order to determine whether further action is needed in the future. the message is this: we have made some progress, let us see what effect it will have. the debate will also help us to monitor trends and developments more closely so that we can take timely action. because technology is changing so fast, it is important for us, too, to keep up. thank you very much, madam president, and thank you again to the members of parliament.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 28 november 2019.
a year ago, terror struck strasbourg in the middle of the city, even as parliament was sitting in plenary. we remember with emotion the victims of this islamist terrorist attack: antonio megalizzi, an italian journalist who was in strasbourg to cover the european parliament; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the european union in the field of environmental protection. kamal naghchband, a garage owner from strasbourg of afghan origin; pascal verdenne, retired from the police; anupong suebsamarn, a tourist from thailand. terrorism does not take into account the nationality, social origin or religion of the victims, it affects our whole society. in the face of violence and horror, we must stand united as defenders of the freedoms, values and principles that make up the european union. our deep respect and solidarity also go to all the other victims, their families and friends, the city of strasbourg and the french people. i suggest that we observe a minute's silence in their honour. (the house adopted the resolution) * * *
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's session, allow me to remember the victims of yesterday's tragic event in the czech republic. six of my fellow citizens were killed by a gunman at the university hospital in ostrava. innocent people who will never return home to their families and loved ones. a tragedy that should never have happened. i share the grief of the bereaved and would like to extend our sincere condolences.
the final draft agenda established by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 28 november 2019 has been distributed. the following amendments were tabled: the green group also called for the debate on the commission's statement on the european green deal to be concluded with a resolution to be voted on at the january 1st part-session. i give the floor to mr lamberts to present the request of the green group.
for the greens/efa group mr president, today is an important day: it is the first political act of the new european commission and it is an act of great significance for all the policies of the european union. i am glad that the commission has chosen to present it and to give it first to the european parliament - i think that is how it should be done in a democracy. i also think it would be healthy for our assembly to respond to a substantive text from the commission with a substantive text as well, in other words a resolution which gives the impression that the european parliament has general proposals from the european commission. of course, we will have the opportunity to express our opinion on each of the commission's legislative initiatives, that goes without saying. but i think it is also important that we can give a general view of what is a general project. i therefore propose that we do have this resolution for the january i part-session.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission's statement on the european green deal (2019/2956 ((rsp)). i give the floor to president von der leyen, thanking her for her presence, for her introduction to the debate.
the commission has adopted a communication on the other mr president, two weeks ago i made a promise to this parliament: i promised you that my commission would not waste time. and now, just two weeks later, we are here before you with our proposal for a european green deal. it is the people of europe who have called for decisive action on climate change. europeans have made their voices heard in the streets and at the polls. it is for their sake that we are here today, and it is for their sake that we are presenting such an ambitious green deal for europe. we're telling them today, we've heard you, we've heard you loud and clear, and here's the answer. in july, immediately after my appointment, i put climate action at the heart of my political agenda. you voted to approve this programme and i promised you that you would be central to the next steps. today, frans and i, together with the whole college, are presenting to you and the european citizens our ideas for the european green deal. we're also here because we need you. this proposal is not the end of a work, it is the beginning of a common path and we will only move forward with your support. honourable members, this is not just our vision for a climate-neutral continent; it is a roadmap for action, with 50 practical steps on europe's path towards 2050. it will take more than a generation to reach that goal. we know that this roadmap will have to evolve and adapt through the years. it will be a very long and partly bumpy road, without any question, but it is up to us to set the pace. it is up to us to leave no one behind, and we know that it is doable. we are determined to succeed, for the sake of this planet and life on it. and so many european people, businesses and cities, are already showing us the way. last friday, 44 of europe's largest investors, representing eur 6 trillion of assets, called on the european union to adopt, as quickly as possible, a climate law for climate neutrality in 2050. they want that law. they say it will give them the confidence to make long-term decisions for modern investment. it is about accountability and reliability, and therefore a crucial building block of our european green deal will be, in 2020, the proposal of the very first european climate law. it will set clear rules so that investors and innovators can plan their long-term investment. it will make the transition towards climate neutrality accountable and reliable. next summer we will present a plan to increase our ambition in cutting emissions. this decision on our 2030 target will not be left to chance. the plan will come with a thorough impact assessment to better understand where we can be bold, but also where we must be prudent. we want to be as ambitious as we can and we want to be as realistic as we can. all of this will be ready in time for next year's cop26 in glasgow. europe will lead by example, but we also need more ambitious multilateral rules for the whole world. of course, every continent has to find its own path, without any question, but the goal must be the same for everyone, and positive change must be rewarded and not hindered. we want to protect our planet. we welcome the change in production procedures. if companies invest in clean technologies, if they respect our environment, it can't be that they face unfair competition from heavy polluters, and that's when we will apply a carbon border adjustment mechanism with full compliance with wto rules. (applause) i would like to thank you. honourable members, the european green deal is not only about emissions: it is about boosting innovation; it is about quality food; it is about modern mobility. it will create new businesses and markets all across europe. the european green deal is our new growth strategy, and this time it's a growth strategy that is not consuming, but it is a new growth strategy that is more giving back than it takes away. it's a growth strategy that is more caring. companies from all over our continent are already turning the green transition into green opportunities and business opportunities. some are converting plastic waste into modern furniture, for example. farmers are using data from our satellites to adapt to climate change. made-in-europe batteries for electric cars are finally becoming reality. we must invest in europe's potential for innovation. 70 years ago, europeans invested in coal and steel, and it turned out to be a historic reconciliation and an economic miracle. today we are investing in renewables and algorithms, and the european green deal is about reconciling our economy with our planet, reconciling the way we produce and the way we consume with our planet, and respecting the environment we live in. that is the core of the european green deal. honourable members, exactly one year ago, the city of katowice hosted the global climate conference of cop24. this city, that for over a century was a capital of coal, became the global capital of climate action. delegations from the whole world saw former coal industries that now host congress centers, restaurants and concert halls. this transition didn't happen overnight, and it was certainly not effortless. similarly, the european green deal won't happen overnight and it will be demanding, but it is the right thing to do. as in katowice, the transition will bring better and healthier jobs. it will bring cleaner and less-polluted cities. it will bring a higher quality of life for europeans. but this transition will also need time, support and solidarity. therefore, immediately in the next year, we will propose the just transition mechanism. it will combine public money and private money. the european investment bank will leverage it, with the ambition to reach eur 100 billion in investment over the next seven years. it will be the springboard for those sectors and those regions that have to catch up. everyone in europe can be part of this change. the transition is not just about big industry and coal. it is an opportunity for our farmers, with our farm-to-fork strategy. from lapland to southern italy, a whole generation of young farmers are rediscovering traditional crops and bringing new life to our countryside. the european green deal will be on their side. the european green deal will take care of europe's incredible natural heritage. it will protect biodiversity and revive the blue economy. but we, as institutions that serve the europeans, must also walk the talk, and this is what the european commission will do. we also have to learn what this change means in our daily life how to practice sustainability. what does it mean for our buildings, for our waste management, for our travels, for our paper use, you name it? today in college, we set ourselves the target to be, as a commission, climate neutral by 2030, and i invite parliament and the council to do the same. it's a challenge, but let's do that together. let us support active citizenship and call on grassroots initiatives. let us work with teachers and educators, because our children are not passive spectators. they are very active players in this endeavor. our climate pact will be with them and for them and for all those who are ready to play a part in this endeavor. honourable members, a whole continent has to be mobilised, from mayors in small cities and in big cities to all institutions at european level. every member of my commission will be involved, every member state, every committee in this parliament. in fact, none of this will be possible without your support. we will need ambitious legislation. we will need a seven-year budget that rises to the challenge. today, we bring the european green deal here to the floor of parliament. tomorrow i will present it to our leaders in the council, and later this week mr timmermans will present it to cop25 in madrid. let's start this endeavor together. honourable members, some say the cost of this transformation is too high. well, let's never forget what the cost of non-action would be. (applause) i would like to thank you. it is rising by the year. river flooding costs our citizens over eur 5 billion annually. every year, our economy is losing almost eur 10 billion due to droughts, and farmers pay the highest price. and this is only the beginning. but this is not a given. we can resist these developments. it is high time, but it is not too late. with this roadmap for action, we make the cost of the transition fully sustainable. many europeans are already taking action. only one year ago, no one would have imagined that millions would take to the streets for climate. our cities are choosing clean energy. our scientists are developing the technologies of the future. our families are renouncing plastic and choosing local food. our european green deal is for them. it is ambitious. it is designed to be just. it is made in europe for europe to lead the way to climate neutrality in 2050. europe has always given its best when it has worked together as a union. we give our best when we are bold and aim high, and with the european green deal we are aiming high. europeans are calling on us to drive the change. now it's up to us to answer their call. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission for presenting today the vision, the plans and the ideas of your european commission when it comes to the green deal. and for the epp, for us popular parties and christian democrats, our motivation is crystal clear: we believe that we don’t own this planet; we’re merely looking after it for the generations to come, and we therefore simply have a moral obligation to protect it. and for us, what we discussed today, therefore, is not just a deal; it’s a solemn promise that we make to our children and our grandchildren. the president of the european commission earlier today talked about a ‘man-on-the-moon’ moment, and she is right, because aiming for something that is so hard to reach takes a lot of courage. but we simply need to act; we may be the last generation that can still act and have an impact and make a difference. we only simply have a couple of decades left. and at the same time, for the epp it is also clear that you don’t put a man – or a woman, for that matter – on the moon by just banning things, by increasing taxes and by telling people what they must do or what they can no longer do. we do it by bringing the best and the brightest together – that first of all. we need ground-breaking research: the smartest solutions and the cleanest industry which will provide jobs for europeans and opportunities. let europe be the continent that develops and produces alternative aircraft fuels while also improving the rail market for shorter distances. let europe be the continent where we produce co2-low or even -free steel. we in the epp might not be climate warriors, but we are – and we need to be – climate nerds. that is what europe needs to get ahead. we do it, secondly, by leaving nobody behind, it has been said; by not putting the burden, for example, on those who can least afford it. and this is a real worry among europeans. we do it by working with our farmers and foresters: farmland and forests take up more than three quarters of our surface in europe, and some brand farmers and foresters as the villains, as the problem in this debate, whereas they’re part of the solution. and we should help them, starting by ensuring them a fair price for their products as well as an international level playing field. and thirdly, we do it by bringing by being coherent and consistent. for the epp it is clear that an ambitious climate policy and a smart industrial policy need to go hand in hand. a green deal without a good deal for our industry will not deliver the change that we are looking for. we want and we need ambition with the business case. and finally, we need a global, level playing field, it has been said, ensuring that other parts of the world either play along or cannot have uncorrected access to the european market. today is a day, i think, for firmly putting that dot on the horizon. we agree on the direction that we are heading in. we share an ambition. but the work on how we get there is only starting. let’s not fool ourselves. it will be challenging, and what we need is a combination of real vision and practical strategy, and this is what the epp can and will deliver.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president madam president, today we have the opportunity to usher in a new era. for europe and for our planet. only eleven days into the mandate, the european commission, thanks to the extraordinary work of frans timmermans, is presenting us with more than a proposal. what we are facing today is a new growth model, which aims to transform the european union into a more just and prosperous society, capable of responding to the challenges of climate change. last november this parliament declared a climate emergency. for the social democrats, this is not an empty slogan. this is a warning that requires urgent and exceptional measures. the green deal points the way for europe and the rest of the world to transform. it implies a total paradigm shift to bury fossil fuels for good and achieve a climate-neutral europe by 2050. if we are to achieve these goals through a just transition, we must rely on three pillars. the first is that we need a green pillar, which implements the united nations' 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. in this respect, we welcome the fact that the proposal fulfils our longstanding aspiration to incorporate the sustainable development goals into the european semester. and i also refer to this green pillar because it incorporates climate law with clear objectives and the ultimate commitment to achieve climate neutrality. the second pillar is the red pillar, the social dimension of the green deal. we need a real social dimension within the green deal. we can only do this with a strong social pillar that enables us to transform our economies and ensures that no one is left behind. the disadvantaged classes cannot be the ones most affected by climate change. and the third pillar, the financial pillar. this pillar will determine the success of the green deal. according to the commission, meeting its objectives will require an additional annual investment of eur 260 billion. to do this, we need the multiannual financial framework with at least 1.3% of gross national income and we need to talk about fair taxation, in line with the objectives of reducing carbon. the european union cannot fight climate change alone. our trade policy is a great opportunity to promote our labour, social and environmental standards. today we send a clear message to meet the expectations of the millions of people who are taking to the streets demanding the fight against climate change. those millions of people are ready for change. we social democrats are ready for change. the question is, are our leaders and the rest of the political forces ready for change? the answer is forced. we have to be. it's time to act.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam president of the commission, vice—president of the commission, the green deal communication is the beginning of a process to put europe on the right track to fight against climate change, but we will succeed only if we change this challenge into an opportunity for our citizens and for our economy. if we go this way, renew europe will be a trustworthy but also a demanding partner. we led the declaration of a climate emergency and demanded the green deal be placed at the top of the agenda. if we want the green deal to generate opportunities, we must avoid adding bureaucracy to bureaucracy. the green deal must not end up with new red tape but with a new societal dynamic. we need to go fast, but we also need to engage in a wide debate all across europe and mobilise around this project. first, to trigger change, we need to set the level of ambition in our future climate law and to set impact assessment as the standard. second, let’s face it, the transition toward a carbon—neutral economy is, and will be, a challenge for many of our economic sectors and workers. it will call for massive investment, creativity and solidarity with the people and the sectors confronted with the most challenging transformations. third, a twofold approach to green digitalisation and technology is fundamental for us. digital technologies are uniquely positioned to provide effective tools for climate-change mitigation and adaptation. and fourth, we should not oppose traditional policies and new priorities but modernise our traditional tools. both the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy can deliver on our new political ambitions. the green deal ambition must be integrated with policy reforms that are already on the table. dear colleagues, this ascent ahead of us is the challenge of a generation. but with determination and teamwork, our journey can be an opportunity for our renewal and reinvention. the most challenging work is not only to set ambitions but to find practical solutions to achieve them, and you can trust that renew europe is committed to being an active team member.
in writing. – farmers are the first to feel the impact of climate change. yet bear in mind the pressure on their shoulders by the rigorous standards of the future cap, the budget cuts, the unfair competition triggered by the mercosur trade agreement and the international trade disputes countermeasures. it is, thus, fundamental to design policies that accompany our farmers towards this transition, instead of putting even more pressure on them. forestry also plays a crucial role in addressing climate change. it has significant potential to reduce emissions, sequester carbon and boost economies in a sustainable manner. with over 40% of the eu’s land area covered by forests, it is clear that the european green deal must include an updated post-2020 eu forest strategy, to put the legislation in line with renewed climate and biodiversity ambitions. however, as the commission knows, each member states has its specificities. during the last plenary debate on the protection of forests, romanian illegal logging was discussed. i call on the commission to explain all the concrete initiatives which might be taken in order to protect romanian forests and its biodiversity.
the european commission's communication launching the european green deal reinforces the coherence and relevance of a progressive, inclusive and sustainable agenda to address the climate emergency and to give the european union a leading role in the energy transition and the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the just transition mechanism to be presented at the beginning of 2020 should allow no region, territory or sector to be left behind in achieving the objectives. i also stress the importance of the commitment to present a new industrial strategy and a 'climate law' in the first half of 2020, which will make the emission reduction target more ambitious. the option of applying a carbon tax under wto rules is a sign that the financial leverage of the pact will not jeopardise the financing of cohesion and convergence policies. the european union cannot hesitate to adopt a practice which will also be an inspiration to the rest of the world. the political decision-makers and civil society must be mobilised. in this context, the european commission's decision to present the green deal first to the european parliament has important political significance.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday 11 december 2019.
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on wednesday 11 december 2019, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. accordingly, the deadlines are adjusted as follows: i am not going to vote for it. monday 16 december at 19.00; amendments to motions for resolutions and joint motions for resolutions: tuesday, december 17th at noon. amendments to the joint motions for resolutions: tuesday, december 17th at 1pm. voting by separate and distinct parts: tuesday, december 17th at 7pm. (parliament approved the request) tuesdayi received a request from the greens/efa group that the debate on the commission's statement on the eu's disability strategy post-2020 be concluded with a resolution to be voted on at a subsequent part-session.
the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the cop25 ended with a weak, or rather very weak, voluntary commitment on the part of the countries and a substantial failure to meet expectations, but not only that, but also to take concrete action to combat climate change. i would remind colleagues that just last wednesday there was an extraordinary plenary on the green new deal to re-launch the european union's leadership on these issues, and i would also remind you that at the last plenary in strasbourg, we voted a resolution to declare a climate emergency. that is why we believe that we must also discuss the outcome of the cop to see how we can move forward.
mr president, i agree with the fact that we should have a discussion on the issue of the cop in madrid, because it was disappointing. however, to add it to the agenda on tuesday morning, dear friends from the socialist group, is a bit obvious: to take away attention and time from the debate we’re having on the situation in malta. given the situation in malta, given recent developments in malta, we need time to have this debate, so i would fully agree to hold the debate on the disappointing outcome of cop25, but i would propose to this floor to put it, for example, on the tuesday afternoon, wednesday afternoon, but according to us, tuesday afternoon would be good. you would have our full support, but please let us also have the full debate, with the time allotted to it, to discuss the serious situation in malta. (applause)
i would say that the epp is completely off track. we have decided, we have asked for this debate to take place on tuesday morning because there is enough time on tuesday morning to discuss it. there are many, many issues on the agenda on tuesday afternoon, but that is not a problem for us. it is also fine on tuesday afternoon, the important thing is that we discuss the outcome of this failed conference.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i’d like to kindly request your consent to putting this item on the agenda. i know it is a special time, just before christmas, but unfortunately we already know that around 1 500 people have been killed in iran during the recent crackdown. despite difficulties, opposition protesters, including minors, are meticulously trying to put names to those who perished during the demonstrations and protests. our voice, raised in a timely manner to defend the protesting iranians, is a matter of life or death for many who are imprisoned and still suffering insecurity. i kindly ask you to give your consent to this item.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in iran, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east, and that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am a person of long-standing experience of protests against communism, so i know how vital and how important our voice is for those suffering. of course, i understand that the majority has a say here. if the majority decides that it should be postponed until january, it will be done like this. at the least, i would kindly ask you, sir, to issue a statement. parliament’s voice is extremely important.
i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council and the commission are not left to the decisions of the council.
i would like to remind you that we feel that you are particularly keen on these kinds of speeches which only open up discussions when you come from this side of the house. we have heard other colleagues speak out and start a debate on matters which had nothing to do with the rules, nothing at all, and which were allowed to pass. just to ask for a little balance.
president zanni, i would remind you that several members from different groups have been recalled and have also been sanctioned. we do not ask for the floor on a point of order and we talk about something else.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the romanian revolution of december 1989 (2019/2989(rsp)). i remind you that it’s possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am honoured to be here before you today to commemorate with you this important event for romania and europe at large. în urmă cu treizeci de ani, pe 16 decembrie 1989, revoluția română a început la timișoara. acesta a fost primul pas spre reîntoarcerea româniei și a românilor în europa, după decenii de izolare impusă bazată pe diviziuni artificiale între est și vest. revoluția română a fost cel din urmă act al mișcărilor populare anticomuniste din europa centrală și de răsărit și cel mai sângeros: peste o mie de oameni au plătit prețul vieții în acele zile. în acea iarnă din 1989, românii au luptat pentru libertate, drepturi fundamentale, domnia legii și democrație. aceste valori constituie fundamentul europei noastre așa cum o știm astăzi, dincolo de diferențele de limbă, de rasă sau tradiții. ne-au adus împreună, de la nord la sud, de la est la vest, iar perpetuarea acestor valori, a drepturilor fundamentale, a domniei legii trebuie să constituie în continuare un motor al unității europene. violența cu care regimul comunist a încercat să reprime aspirațiile românilor spre libertate și democrație, precum și greutățile perioadei de tranziție par astăzi la ani-lumină față de 1989, pentru românia ─ parte a uniunii europene. îmi amintesc ca experiență personală ─ aveam 21 de ani, eram în ultimul an de facultate în momentul revoluției ─ acele zile din decembrie vor rămâne pentru totdeauna în sufletul meu și în memoria colectivă a poporului român. am trăit apoi tranziția către democrație, ani de tranziție care au condus sau au culminat cu aderarea țării mele la uniunea europeană. știm, însă, că nimic nu este peren. trebuie să ne asigurăm că nimeni nu va mai cunoaște regimuri totalitare, penurie și izolare și de aceea trebuie să privim către viitor și să aplicăm aceste principii, în primul rând în relația cu țările din imediata vecinătate. mai este încă un drum de parcurs. călătoria noastră către o convergență deplină cu nucleul uniunii europene este în plină desfășurare. monitorizăm în continuare situația statului de drept. .. but romania is resourceful. the economy continues growing healthily, the country excels in developing skills, notably in new technologies and the digital economy. i am sure we will continue in the years to come. the recently-adopted european green deal has set an ambition to leave nobody behind. as transport commissioner, it will be my task to ensure our mobility systems, which are the foundation of our economy and our daily lives, remain accessible and provide development opportunities for all across europe. in romania, support for the eu stands at record levels, with 72% of romanians saying nowadays they benefited from their country’s membership of the eu and turned out for the last european elections in higher numbers than the eu average. in december 1989, as the blurred images of the revolution hit all news channels worldwide, romania was back, and there isn’t a better place than the european parliament to celebrate the 30 years of the comeback of romania and of the entire central and eastern europe at the heart of the european family.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my fellow meps, the parliamentary groups, who have agreed that this debate should take place in the epicentre of european democracy. today we celebrate 30 years, exactly today, since timisoara erupted in a seemingly banal incident on december 16, 1989. on december 17th, ceausescu's murderous regime was shooting at the population through the people's army. the revolution spread from timisoara to all cities of the country. millions of romanians were in the streets. the brutality of the regime was materialized in over 1,142 romanians shot, 3,200 romanians wounded, 700 romanians tortured. however, any of the millions of romanians who took to the streets were facing the bullets of the romanian army turned against their own people. the romanians' desire to return to a europe of values, from which they were snatched by soviet tanks, was much stronger than their fear of repression. it is a moment when romanians said decisively, with the sacrifice of their lives, "no" to communism and returned to the european family. today they're in nato, they're in europe, they're where they belong. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union is not only about peace in europe, the european union is also about the prohibition of dictatorships on the territory of the european union.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by the committee on budgets, which is to be submitted to the european parliament by the end of the year. unlike other former communist countries, the return from communism to democracy in romania was made through human sacrifice. over a thousand people have died for freedom and thousands more have been injured. the thousands of human sacrifices in december 1989 are in addition to the hundreds of thousands of romanians of all ethnicities and confessions in romania, who since the establishment of communism in romania in 1946, have fought and campaigned for the defense of freedom, democracy and fundamental human rights. many of them fought with weapons in hand as partisans in the mountains, others were imprisoned by the communists and died in unsanitary prisons, and others went into exile. thousands more romanians were shot at the romanian border as they tried to escape westward from the great prison that the communists had turned romania into. because of its refusal to serve the communist party, the greek catholic church in romania was outlawed in 1948, and its bishops, along with hundreds of priests and thousands of faithful, were thrown into prisons, where many died. along with greek catholic priests, orthodox priests, protestant and non-protestant pastors, and even people of no particular faith and of different ethnicities were imprisoned in communist prisons because they refused to serve the communist party or opposed communist ideology. added to this are millions of romanian families whose land and other property was confiscated by the communist state, destroying their livelihoods. the 1989 romanian revolution was the culmination of a 40-year struggle to restore freedom and democracy in romania. 30 years after the anti-communist revolution, we commemorate this event and we are glad that all the representatives of romania in this parliament are joining hands to carry forward freedom for themselves and for the generations that will come after us.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, exactly 30 years ago, on 16 december 1989, the spark of the romanian revolution was ignited in timisoara. a few hundred people dared to oppose the totalitarian regime. they were joined in the hours and days that followed by hundreds, then thousands, of people and the revolution spread to bucharest, to brasov, to cluj, to arad and throughout the country. in timisoara, the first shots were fired. these people had no illusions that they would be forgiven by the regime, they knew they were risking their lives, and yet they took to the streets, they chose freedom, they had the courage to denounce dictatorship, oppression, lack of freedom, economic deprivation, in one of the most harsh communist regimes in the world. today, in the european parliament, we pay tribute to the courage of these men. their courage is what made it possible for romania to return to the values of democracy, pluralism, the rule of law, freedom. it's what put us back on the map of a free, democratic and united europe. in those days, ordinary people became heroes. many, many of them never came home alive. one mother told how on december 22, after spending a day and a night on the streets in bucharest, her son returned home with his shirt covered in blood because a friend with whom he had protested had died in his arms. the man left for work on the 22nd afternoon and my mother found him on the 26th coming home in a coffin. children who, after 30 years, are now the same age as the parents they lost. last year, when the names of the heroes were displayed on the fence of the royal palace in revolution square in bucharest, one such child, who was already an adult, came and wrote, next to his father's name, "i love you, daddy". those children ask themselves every day what the meaning of their parents' sacrifice is. and they, first and foremost, but others have a right to know the truth about what happened then, and we must fight so that people never go out and die for their freedom, not now and not in future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 december 1989, exactly 30 years ago, thousands of romanians took to the streets for the first time, and hundreds of thousands of romanians followed them in the days that followed. these events known as the romanian revolution led to the removal of communism in romania and led to the return of romania and the romanian people to europe. through the romanian revolution, the doors were opened for millions of romanians to say what they think, they won their freedom of expression, to read what they want, to see, for the first time, their relatives, family members who went abroad and who maybe some of them could not see at all until then. romania and the romanian people have earned, through those sacrifices in the days of the romanian revolution, their place in europe. the key word, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate must be 'commemoration'. we must think today, more than ever, of the 1,142 romanians who lost their lives in the days of the romanian revolution. while in other european countries the communist regime was overthrown peacefully, in romania this led to the death of 1 142 people, many of them young. they fought for democracy, for freedom, for freedom of speech, and today we have to think about them. throughout the last 30 years, always, romanians have continued this fight. they fought for european values and for romania's place in the european union. madam president, i believe that we, all 751 members of the european parliament from all 28 member states of the european union, have a duty to defend the values for which romanians lost their lives in december 1989 ─ democracy, freedom, freedom of expression, justice ─ and to continue to make every effort to continue the process of european integration and for the peaceful coexistence of all nations within the european union.
madam president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, in the winter of 1989 in romania, the grocer gheorghe dorel nechita had his whole life ahead of him. his family was preparing for his marriage, scheduled for the following year, 1990. one day, tuesday, december 22, a stray bullet pierced the heart of brave george, as his family called him, killing him instantly. for the young scientist at the institute of atomic physics, it was all over before it began, at just 29 years old. george would never come home to his family, to the bullet in his heart that had been shot to death. today he sleeps his eternal sleep in the cemetery of his hometown, bacau, and every year, on december 22, his mother seeks an answer to a question that has plagued her day and night for the last 30 years: "who killed my son?" the blood sacrifice of the more than 5200 victims of the revolution, of which more than 1100 are dead, demands justice. the heroes of the revolution opened the way to democracy and the rule of law in romania. therefore, beyond honoring their memory, we must do everything in our power to find the truth and solve the murders. those responsible must answer. it's never too late for such a longing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this month marks the 30th anniversary of the 1989 revolution in romania. it was the only country where the communist regime struggled to remain in power, despite clear opposition from romanians. over a thousand people were killed and several thousand were injured in the almost ten days of unrest and clashes between the population and the police. many of these victims were from timisoara, the city where the revolution began exactly 30 years ago. it is, and still is, incredible their courage to stand up to the communist regime, knowing that they could be alone, and yet they could not conceive that the authorities would shoot at unarmed people, at women, at children. the tragedy was that they started shooting. even so, the timisoara people held out. it might seem too dramatic to say that they were left in the street under the fire of bullets, and this is the clearest image you can have when you think about the romanian revolution of 1989. the people who stood there in the marketplace, in the streets, saw their friends falling beside them and could have chosen to run, to save themselves, but they didn't. arad, my city, the second city to join the revolution, has had its share of fighting, of deaths and injuries. we remember them today, 30 years later, and we honor them as they deserve. the 1989 revolution is that moment in our history that shows us the strength that people have when they fight together for principles. in timisoara, in arad, in bucharest, in all the other cities where people took to the streets, this 'together' gave them the power to tear down the mountain of totalitarianism. our gratitude is not enough. our tribute is not enough. we must ask, as we have for 30 years, for the truth. we must demand justice for them and for all those who risked their lives in those days, for the families of the victims. it is time for the romanian state to deal with this dark chapter in the life of romania with speed and, as much as it would hurt, to present us with the truth. we need to know who the main culprits are for the 1989 massacre so that our heroes can rest in peace.
that's a two-card answer. as i said earlier, mr president, this freedom is part of our common european identity and we must not forget it. and this revolution that we remember today, the temesvar revolution, the spirit of the romanian revolution, is a common european value, and that is why we are here, and that is why we must do in the future, to honor and cherish the memory of this.
madam president, commissioner vălean, i have to tell you that i have been informed of the situation. welcome to your new role. as one of the few, i am not from romania, i am from poland, and it was in poland that the erosion of the system began 40 years ago, in august 1980. it was in poland that the system began to collapse thirty years ago, in june 1989, and in november we basically no longer had the berlin wall. there were three countries left that were true to the old ideology: romania, north korea and cuba. and that is why i particularly support the provisions of this resolution that speak of the truth, condemning the criminal nature of this regime, because it was time to react to it. at the same time, we are aware that romania has come a long way since then. we must pay tribute to the victims, and we must also pay tribute to those who fought then and are now creating romania's success. we all welcomed romania's membership of the european union. we wish romania the best and i for my part would like it to join the schengen area as soon as possible.
madam president, this year marks the 30th anniversary of the romanian revolution, the first televised revolution in history, and millions of people in the country, in europe and beyond have seen very clearly the violence against citizens who wanted the removal of a totalitarian regime. that is why what happened in december 1989 in romania was not exclusively an experience of romanians, but also of europeans who showed, and at those moments, solidarity and attachment to the romanian people and, obviously, just like romanians, expected to know the truth about these events. but three decades have passed since then, and year after year the romanian people are waiting for an answer to what happened in december 1989. they await an end in which all the guilty will be judged and condemned according to the deeds, complicity and culpability of each of them. there is still a fear in romanian society that this waiting may continue if no one and nothing will succeed in pushing the romanian justice to establish the truth and by then the main actors or witnesses and even the descendants and relatives of the fallen will physically disappear, and this file will remain in a drawer with the resolution unknown author. because yes, the truth is clearly and simply described in the revolution's file, it says exactly who and how it acted, at whose orders it acted, knowing, in many cases, the author of each murder. dear colleagues, romania also needs the truth. romania cannot heal and even completely detach itself from the past as long as the culprits of december 1989 are not officially known. sooner or later, the truth always comes out, but sometimes it's too late. this time, we don't want to be too late again. that is the purpose of this resolution in the european parliament, so that december 1989 will not be a moment of oblivion but a moment of memory, of freedom, and for that we need the truth as soon as possible and for ever. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. unfortunately, even today, in romania, the absolute truth of this revolution is not known and there is a judgment of the european court of human rights that demanded justice, that demanded that the guilty be found, that compensation be granted to those who suffered and demanded, in conclusion, a truth for the entire romanian nation. i also said in my speech that romania has suffered a lot because those guilty have not been discovered since the early 1990s and some of those who had a nefarious contribution to this revolution have perpetuated themselves in public office in romania.
madam president, personally, as a man who has lived half his life under an oppressive regime, i believe that there is nothing more dangerous and humiliating for a human being than dictatorship. i also think that the distance between democracy and dictatorship is sometimes only a split second, that split second when you choose to be silent rather than speak. the victims of the revolution were killed by bullets, but in fact, their tragic fate was decided by the murderous silence of those who worked for or indulged in the oppressive system for their own peace and benefit. it's good that the truth of 1989 is known. but in addition, it is our duty to be careful and to speak loudly, firmly, in time, so that we can save those people whom we would otherwise be paying tribute to post mortem. let's all be on the lookout for the first signs of dictatorship, because today it's much more subtle, sometimes hiding behind a democratic veneer and able to pervert by manipulating even the brightest minds. a form of dictatorship begins to build itself when you discover that you can no longer assert your political choice without being verbally assaulted and isolated, including by your circle of friends and family, or when your country is ideologically divided into two camps ready to tear each other apart until there is only one left. so the truth is important, but we also have to see the signs and in that critical split second choose to speak.
madam president, madam commissioner, 30 years ago, as communist regimes collapsed across europe and democratic reforms swept through eastern europe, dictator nicolae ceausescu seemed unshakable, but the police's evacuation of hungarian reformed pastor lászló tőkés on 15 december sparked a wildfire that engulfed the whole country in a matter of days. his delay in publicly denouncing the human rights violations and opposing the village systematization plan preceded the outbreak of the revolution. although his subsequent political activity raises many questions, the withdrawal of the award for the merits of mr tőkés, a former member of this parliament, is a huge injustice. no temporal authority can strip it of its status as a symbol of the revolution or diminish its collective gratitude. dear colleagues, there is much to be done in the revolution's file. it is extremely sad that no romanian, apart from the ceausescu spouses, was found guilty of supporting communist terror. unfortunately, romania has not adopted a lustration law. former staff have access to central administration posts. the return of property confiscated by the communist regime has been practiced for years. out of respect for the more than a thousand people who lost their lives during the revolution and the communist regime, 30 years after the revolution, not a moment should be lost to hold those responsible to account and to make reparations for the crimes and damage caused by the communist regime. for us to live in a healthy society today, we must have the courage to face our own past.
madam president, today is about paying tribute to romania, about the courage of the romanian people and my country to oppose a draconian dictatorial regime, to fight fear, hunger and cold, in conditions that others could not have imagined. let's not forget to say that on december 14th, that manifesto to all romanians of good faith in iasi opened the spark to this revolution and that, if it had not been for the brutal intervention of the militia and the security, it would have reached a different situation. i tell you today that my daughter is of the age of the revolution. i told him about those days, he grew up watching and seeing us enter the european union and nato, and for these european values to continue, we have an obligation, as we did today all the romanian parliamentarians, to make the other walls fall further. so today, while we are still honoring this revolution, i ask you to honor romania, to honor all of us by making the things that are important to us a reality. so today, once again, after 30 years, honourable commissioner, i remind you that we meet all the conditions and ask you to join schengen.
madam president, 30 years ago, millions of romanians faced fear, they took to the streets to demand that romania break permanently from a criminal regime; millions of romanians against whom over 12 million bullets were fired shouted in the street "libertate, we love you!" we win or we die! these innocent voices expressed a state of freedom-seeking for what romania was about to achieve: democracy and an irreversible path to european integration. romania, at that time, had finally broken away from a hard period in which hundreds of thousands of people died in communist prisons, and today, thanks to this sacrifice - and thank you for the fact that in the plenary of the european parliament we pay tribute to these heroes - heroes never die, and i bow to them. thank you for this unique and important moment for my nation.
madam president! the romanian anti-communist revolution began in thames. when on december 15, the people of timisoara, hungarians and romanians, gathered in front of the reformed church to protect the pastor lászló tőkés and his family members, who were to be forcibly evicted by the communist authorities. in those bloody december days, human solidarity took on a depth that has not been repeated in romania since. today, using the political tools of democracy, we are committed to fighting for a rule of law in which all citizens and all communities enjoy equal rights and equal protection. the rmdsz in strasbourg and bucharest are also firmly in favour of the full implementation of the objectives set 30 years ago. to do this, we need the public to know the truth about the events of december 1989 and to hold accountable those responsible for the deaths of innocent people.
sorry, madam president, i can see a colleague here waving a blue card. do you want to address this before i speak?
no, we will not allow a blue card during catch-the-eye. the floor is yours.
madam president, i represent the north west of england, where there is a large romanian population with whom i work very closely, and i’m happy to call many of them my friends. they are doctors, nurses, teachers, artists, entrepreneurs. many of them remember the romanian revolution and the cruel dictatorship that preceded it. now, not only are romanians free in their own country, but since 2007 they have also enjoyed the benefits of the eu membership. however, brexit presents a frightening prospect for the romanian diaspora in the uk, who are increasingly on the receiving end of often violent racist abuse. indeed, over night of 23 june 2016, a group of romanian children who regularly played out on the streets in manchester were called indoors by their parents, who were worried for their safety in the increasingly hostile environment. to my knowledge, those children are still deprived of the freedom to play out with other children. it’s a sad indictment of brexit britain that people who suffered under totalitarianism now feel anxious and unwelcome in their adopted home.
member of the commission. – thank you very much, madam president. there’s not much more to say for me at this stage, but to thank those who brought the topic to the debate. those who supported and participated in the debate. i wish the house good luck with the resolution on thursday and i take it that for the romanians, for those like you and like myself, working in europe, for the good of all people, there is a huge responsibility lying in the future. because we are bearing with us the hopes of those people back in 1989 hoping for a better life and a better europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 december 2019. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – thirty years ago, a violent uprising in romania ended the communist regime of ceaușescu and opened up the country’s path towards the eu, nato and the democratic world. years of shortages, food and fuel rationing, power cuts and stifling surveillance had driven romanians to breaking point. this was the most violent of all the uprisings leading to the fall of communism in the states behind the iron curtain. romania had the only revolution that saw the perpetrator sentenced to death and executed, but there are still many questions that remain unanswered. last month, a bucharest court opened preliminary hearings into allegations that iliescu and two associates committed crimes against humanity in december 1989, leading to the deaths of 862 people and injury to 2 150 after ceaușescu fled. there were 700 hundred people queuing for hours to attend the hearing. that queue is the best proof that romanians still want justice. i call on romania to boost its efforts to clarify the truth of the past, to do its utmost to ensure the crimes of communist regimes are remembered and guarantee such crimes will never be committed again. it is an absolute necessity for the country, the romanian people, and the eu.
in writing. 30 years after the romanian revolution, the european parliament pays tribute to the most dramatic of the 1989 overthrows of the communist regime. the foundation of the romanians' freedom rests on the blood sacrifice of the 1,116 dead and 4,089 wounded, many in circumstances still unknown. knowing the truth about the events of december 1989 is a pressing moral and legal obligation. it is also essential to understand the tragic significance of history so close, especially as we stand at a crossroads for the european project. three decades ago, romanians freed themselves through sacrifice from the dictatorship imposed by the soviet occupation and accepted by the western states. if the east-west divide persists within the eu, it is also because of the failure to take on this historical responsibility. in the face of revisionist aggression in our immediate neighbourhood and populist-nationalist rampages undermining european unity, we have only one chance: the solidarity of eu states, in the name of the citizens' attachment to freedom and democracy. effective european solidarity requires a twofold effort: to overcome the divisions sustained by selfish ambition and to reduce the development gaps inherited from an unjust history. the old member states have a duty to do so. the spirit of sacrifice of the romanians in 1989 shows how painful the price of freedom is. let's not waste it, then!
madam president, i am convinced that the fight against tax fraud should be one of the main tasks of the competent bodies and institutions of the european union. the globalised market, new financial instruments and digitalisation bring new opportunities for different criminals, in addition to convenience and savings. fraud is becoming more sophisticated, and states themselves have fewer and fewer options to detect it. we know that in 2017, the total value added tax evasion amounted to an incredible eur 137 billion. this means that every 10 euros that should have been spent, that the individual states should have collected, ended up in the pockets of the mafia. that's money that all citizens have lost. the seriousness of this issue is also underlined by the fact that it was precisely crimes in the field of taxation that led to the deaths of journalists daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak and his partner. we live in an age when information is the most valuable commodity. it is therefore essential that national authorities share as much data as possible and be able to evaluate it objectively and, where appropriate, use it in criminal proceedings. mechanisms to prevent leakage through so-called cryptocurrencies need to be put in place. it is also common practice for fraudsters to set up shell companies in different member states of the union and to carry out complex business transactions between them. they take advantage of differences in legislation and poor communication between the authorities. we can eliminate these weaknesses. i hope that the new european commission will identify them and, in cooperation with the european parliament, we will be able to reduce to a minimum the amount we lose in tax fraud. we need to do everything we can to simplify the tax system and help expose those who abuse it. our citizens deserve this.
madam president! the vat gap across the union amounts to 140 billion euros a year, as has been said several times in this room. this is almost the annual budget of the union, although the distribution of this gap between the member states is indeed uneven. my country, poland, has reduced this gap from 24% in 2015 to 12% in 2018 over the last three years, and this year the gap will fall below 10%. i hope other countries will follow poland's example. the legislative proposal of the commission and the council responds in a balanced manner to the new challenges facing the tax authorities of the member states, especially given the increasing role of platforms facilitating online trade, but at the same time making the tax administration's tasks more difficult. the harmonisation of the collection of payment information by intermediaries and the exchange of information between countries proposed in this legislation, including the establishment of a central payment system management and operation body, the so-called cesop, should bring tangible benefits to all member states.
madam president, commissioner, i have every confidence in you because we discussed this subject in the last mandate. the commission, parliament and we have obviously tried to find ways of countering vat evasion. sure, the commission has identified a few. we also have instruments, we have eurofisc, the instrument through which the member states transmit their information. unfortunately, there is cross-border vat evasion, there is also e-commerce, there is also exports, there is also between member states and third countries. there are also fictitious purchases. what should we do - identify other tools through which we can put an end to this - because it is not micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are doing the evasion - ? there's a connection to economic crime. vat evasion is placed in this area and i think we need to find other instruments that lead to the decrease. i would point out, however, that compared to 2016, when we had 150 billion, it has fallen a little, but commissioner, i think you have a lot of work to do on this issue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i fully agree that a common approach is needed in the quantification and analysis of vat collection. the creation of a central electronic payment information system is a viable solution only if member states can join this system and provide optimal cooperation in terms of entering the necessary data. however, i must draw attention to the fact that some member states do not have the administrative and technical capacity to collect and provide all the necessary data in real time and to adapt quickly to technical developments. we must not lose sight of the need to find a solution from the outset to bring about and maintain the same level of administrative and technical capacity in all the member states. at the same time, we need to ensure that there are mechanisms for rapid adaptation and the evolution and development of the cesop centralised system that respects the trend of european economic digitalisation.
madam president, mr gentiloni, i must admit that i am extremely worried. i'm in the european parliament for the first time, and when you hear that this fraud is equivalent to the budget of the european union, you can only ask yourself big questions if this money that should be used for health, education or infrastructure is going in other directions. the idea of a centralised system at european level seems to me to be absolutely reasonable at first, but i was of the same opinion: who is going to put it into practice? on the other hand, perhaps it's time to think about prevention. prevention would be about fair taxation in all european countries. prevention would mean controlling those multinationals whose problem was raised today in the european parliament, and why not, if we are talking about such large sums, you can find that on that common platform you collaborate with a new institution, with the european public prosecutor, so that these things are detected and sanctioned and so that, perhaps, we do not see these embezzlements anymore. thank you, i wish you success and to be honest, i wouldn't want to be in your shoes because it seems more and more like a windmill fight.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, thank you, honourable tinagli, for putting the reform of the international corporate taxation framework on the agenda of this session. the questions you raised also show how important this issue is for the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance (tax3), and for your honourable person. i am also grateful for all the work you have done so far. whatever the shape of the solutions, the commission is defending an eu perspective i would like to detail. it is important to continue working in parallel on the twin challenges of modernising international corporate tax rules. one: to tax digital activities, carried out without a physical presence. this concerns the reallocation of taxing rights, the so-called pillar 1. two: to address new forms of excessive tax competition under what is called pillar 2. to address those challenges and reach an ambitious global agreement, we then need to find a global solution that effectively captures digital business models, notably those operating in jurisdictions without a physical presence, and to put a floor on excessive international tax competition and close remaining beps loopholes. in addition, while working on a global solution at international level, our aim is to negotiate the best possible outcome for member states and for the eu. i also want to ensure that the specificities of the single market are respected in any solution that arises from the international discussions. we always work for europeans, in the interest of european businesses and for the sake of european citizens. that is why we aim at achieving these objectives without additional complexities for businesses. it is essential that any new rules be simple and easy to administer and provide additional resources to be redistributed to the benefit of our citizens. indeed, it is important to understand the economic impact of the options proposed under both pillars, so that member states can take an informed decision. the preliminary results of our economic analysis on revenues are, until now, encouraging. they suggest that the eu as a whole could benefit under pillar 1 and that all member states would benefit from pillar 2. the commission has now asked member states to provide their country-by-country reporting data to be able to further refine the economic analysis. to conclude, if a global agreement is reached on both pillars, the eu will need to decide how it should be implemented at eu level. if no or limited agreement is reached internationally by 2020, it is crystal clear that the strong rationale for eu action at eu level will remain and that the commission will act on this basis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the clear commitment you have just given. i think it is very important that we find a solution, a clarification, of many of the things that we had to find out together in the last parliamentary term in three special committees and in a committee of inquiry. the best solution is of course the international one, because tax problems do not stop at the borders of the european union, but - especially when we talk about the digital economy - we are dealing with international challenges, and we must also address them together internationally. i therefore welcome the action of the member states, but also of other jurisdictions. i am referring in particular to the united states of america, which plays an important role in the digital economy. we need to move away from the idea of a physical location, with machines, factories, employees, physical inputs and tangible outputs, into the digital economy. it is almost a matter of where you settle, other criteria are important. unfortunately, far too often it is tax law that ultimately determines where a company is located. that is precisely why these things must be addressed. but i'm also very clear: whoever rides must keep his own stable clean. i would like to point out that we also have competition in the european union at the expense of our partners, and not serious competition at the expense of our partners in the european union. we must also address our problems clearly and clearly in the european union. i would ask the commission to take a bold step forward. not just the commissioner for competition, by addressing the whole thing as aid issues, but also you, as the new commissioner in charge, to address these tax issues. we need to drain our own tax havens, and then we can negotiate credibly with others in this world.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, just a few minutes ago we were discussing the monetary policy of the european central bank. and we didn't discuss what that policy should be in response to decisions by other central banks, or discuss what we should do about the outflow or inflow of capital, or the level of reserve that we had in our coffers. and we did not discuss that because we have managed to exercise european sovereignty in the conduct of monetary policy. this is something that the nation states did not have in the 1990s, when the european monetary system collapsed, when central banks and states, in the exercise of their supposed formal sovereignty, were unable to conduct their monetary policy. and that's what we have today with tax policy. because today, tax bases are more mobile than ever; today, large multinationals, large digital companies move profits from one jurisdiction to another, use transfer prices, take advantage of all the nooks and crannies of national legislation to avoid paying taxes and, therefore, states do not have formal sovereignty in the exercise of tax policy, although they do have it in the rules. and that's what we're talking about: how to replicate the success we've had with monetary policy in fiscal policy. and for that we need, not coordination, but minimum tax bases - minimum, i say - in corporation tax. we need to have a common framework for taxation of capital movements. we need common rules and a leadership by the european commission, controlled by this parliament, which gives the citizens the certainty that their affairs, their problems, are being managed by someone, and are not in the hands of that foggy market. we need an agreement in the oecd and, if there is none, we need the european union to act to regain our fiscal sovereignty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. for over 20 years, since my time at university, i have been fighting for tax justice internationally, for rules of globalization with minimum tax rates, with tax transparency, so that precisely the losers of globalization do not pay higher taxes than the winners, but so that we have fair market conditions within the european union, but also internationally. i am therefore pained to see the figures from the european commission which show that, despite all the efforts to achieve international tax cooperation in europe and internationally, the effective corporate tax rate fell below 20% for the first time in the last year and the year before. and we all know that these low tax rates are not because small businesses are not paying taxes anymore, but because it is mainly large transnational corporations that are managing to gain a foothold here. we must not underestimate the destructive effects of this inequality of control. this damages the idea of the social market economy, which has the core idea that everyone in a market is subject to similar rules, so that there is fair competition. and it also damages the idea of the european single market, because a european single market in which some countries do not levy corporate taxes and others do not, cannot guarantee decent, fair competition. the problem is therefore one of legitimacy for our european economic cooperation. let 's face it . the citizens have long believed that we are overwhelmed by these problems. we have been talking about this for decades and we have not been able to get a handle on the problem, and this is undermining the legitimacy of democratic institutions including the european commission, the council, but also the parliament, even though the european parliament has always been the loudest one to make it clear that we want a different policy here. so let's be honest and say what we've accomplished: we have achieved that international banking secrecy has been restricted, so that at least private individuals can no longer easily manage their money in switzerland that they have earned elsewhere. but we haven't been able to do that with the companies. in the case of companies, we still see millions of letter box companies where there is no economic substance and yet no taxes are paid. it is good that this is being negotiated at the oecd level now, but it is not enough to take small steps here. what we decided under the juncker commission - the anti-tax avoidance directives i and ii under the global scope of the beps agreement - has so many loopholes that it is simply not worth the paper it is printed on. real estate is still structured in such a way that you simply take the profits to zero-tax countries and then our nice rules against the interest rate caps will be undermined. that is why it is so important that we finally agree on common minimum tax rates that clearly state where the lower limit is. it is sad that christian democrats - and i must say, some liberals - still have problems in making a clear commitment to these minimum tax rates. and we also need tax transparency. the austrian parliament has just overcome the opposition of the christian democrats there. it is now time for the council to finally implement the proposals and adopt country-specific tax transparency.
madam president! it's really time for digital companies to take their share of the burden. it's intolerable that companies like google, facebook, netflix, etc. pay no or hardly any taxes when they're making very substantial revenues. we are on the right track when we seek an international solution to their taxation, and that is in a framework that goes beyond the union. the oecd is a really good platform for this, and it has put forward a two-pillar proposal. i can fully identify with the first, which would give more tax rights to the state where the companies' customers are located than they currently have. the other proposal, which would introduce a minimum tax, i have a serious problem with. as far as i know, no impact assessment has been carried out on this issue, so there is no answer to the question whether, if oecd countries introduce this minimum tax, companies located in these countries will not move their headquarters outside the oecd territory. companies are rightly anxious to optimise their economic activities and are afraid of going where they have to bear less burdens. such a measure would therefore undermine our economic environment, our own competitiveness, and would be detrimental to third countries, especially tax havens. in addition to the increased tax burden, we would also place a heavy administrative burden on businesses, so this is the wrong direction. the oecd should first produce a feasibility study and then formulate a new proposal. one last note. unfortunately, the text of the resolution included the idea that the union should move towards majority voting and greater harmonisation in tax policy. as i said earlier, this would reduce the possibility of fair competition in an international context, including within the union, and as a consequence companies would move outside the union. we can't afford that. the competitiveness of the union must not be undermined, and i ask you not to be enemies of ourselves.
mr. speaker, the biggest companies in the world, tech giants like facebook and google, are making billions in profits and paying barely any taxes. it is therefore logical that the french government, the labour party and others want to introduce a digital services tax in their own country, so that these companies will also contribute fairly. however, trump and his kleptocrats are threatening trade sanctions. this is a blatant attack on sovereignty and a direct attack on the international negotiations of the oecd to reform the basic principles of corporate taxation. and that reform is sorely needed. the current system of corporate taxation is completely outdated by globalization and digitalization, and countries seem to have no choice but to apply even lower rates and even less corporate tax. we must resist american pressure and ensure that europe, if the negotiations fail, will tax big companies itself. the proposals are in. but as long as the negotiations are still in progress, europe must put its word to its deed by imposing a moratorium on corporation tax. if paris, the hague and berlin are trying to negotiate anti-dumping measures and meanwhile want to reduce corporate taxation at home, that is nothing but hypocrisy. that's not gonna work.
madam president, i will speak in romanian. commissioner gentiloni, madam president and rapporteur tinagli, it is indeed a very important discussion we are having today. i would like to put the question perhaps a little differently than it has been put up to now, but i would like to come to the same conclusion, namely that this resolution must be supported. what we're discussing in this house, at this hour of the night, is not treating multinationals as enemies of the people. it's not about launching a war against multinational corporations. however, there is a growing perception both at european and oecd level that there are indeed significant amounts of tax revenue lost due to its profit shifting behaviour from one country to another. obviously, there is the opinion of civil society and the population in many countries, in the oecd and especially in the european union, which are becoming more vocal on this subject in light of the problem. what we have to stress, however, and this is very important, is that we have here an obvious problem of ethics and behaviour of multinational firms, but we also have a problem of competition and lack of coordination between member states. after all, the multinationals are using this framework that we have, and it's not effective. at the same time, there is a problem at the level of each member state as regards the quality of the tax administration and the competence that this tax administration has to be able to have a unitary regime. the two proposals, the two pillars ─ a fairer allocation of tax rights and, respectively, a global proposal to avoid tax erosion by establishing a minimum taxation ─ work only in a multilateral framework and the european union can indeed set an example. i repeat, it is not a question of going to war to tax multinationals more, it is a question of finding tax equality, a regime whereby we can ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises are not disadvantaged and at the same time avoid this race to differential taxation and different administration between member states. i think it is an important moment for parliament to give a positive signal in this direction, obviously not forgetting, however, what is already included in the proposal, that we are talking about simplicity, predictability and a way to develop businesses, not to stop them.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that tax policies should be favourable to the many and if we are talking about taxation, it should be the same for all. just as you, and everyone in this room today, pay taxes and duties at home where they earn their income, the same must be true for multinationals. i think we are talking about taxes as a tool through which we can ensure european health, education and infrastructure, so i support and will vote with two hands for such a resolution that makes multinationals pay taxes and levies in the country where they make their profits, and these things are valid everywhere in europe and ensure the development we all need.
in writing. – i very much support this oral question debate that raises the important issue of fair taxation in a digitalised and globalised economy. i welcome the intention and ambition of this european commission to propose a european digital tax next year if the oecd talks and negotiations on a global tax fail. we know that talks are difficult and the american position on this is a tricky one. i believe that it is a question of fairness and justice to tax big companies where huge profits are generated inside the eu member states. the eu 500 million single market is an important piece of the cake for many companies and we should remember it when addressing the issue of taxation – and, let me add, fair taxation. as in climate and other fields, i am happy that the eu takes a leading role.
mr president, commissioner, i am tudor ciuhodaru, emergency doctor in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu clinical emergency hospital and i appreciate that today the european parliament is taking the right decision. the health and lives of people should not be coloured by politics and, if we are talking about european values, everything must be done, by everyone, regardless of political colour, to make these things sustainable. even if the rapporteur has a certain political colour, to be honest, it's less important. the jordanians need this loan to ensure their health, to be able to survive, and we, as the european parliament, must once again show our openness to those who are truly partners in respecting european values. i will vote with two hands on this report and i appreciate the work of the european commission.
mr president, schengen is one of the most important achievements of the european union. the schengen system offers the highest standards of border management and romania meets these standards and i ask the council to act without delay and follow the recommendations of the european parliament to ensure the integration of romania into schengen. and you know, i'm not saying that, but former president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek, is saying it, and you know when he says it? june 8, 2011. look at this, it's been almost ten years and that's why i have to go back home and tell the romanians that today, in the european parliament, i asked you once again, honourable commission, honourable council, to join schengen. we meet all the criteria and i hope that this will be done as soon as possible because romanians also have the right to be in this european space, especially since we are all those who love these european values.
mr president, the cooperation and verification mechanism was implemented in 2006, before romania and bulgaria joined the european union. the purpose of this mechanism was conceived as a system of analysis, of verification of the judiciary in romania and bulgaria to ensure that these two countries, once integrated into the european union, will reach the same standard of democracy and the rule of law as other european countries. regrettably, however, in the case of romania, we see that in recent years this cooperation and verification mechanism has not only ceased to be technical and has been transformed into a purely political report, but the report with regard to romania in recent years contains a number of errors that have generated a negative reaction from the romanian magistrates. in addition to these factual, quantitative, qualitative errors that exist in this report, the last written report on romania, generated by the european commission, denies provisions of the constitution of romania and the decisions of the constitutional court of romania. my invitation to the european commission is to re-evaluate how this report assessed the judiciary in romania in 2019 and to rewrite it.
mr president, some members of this house had the opportunity to meet daphne caruana galizia before she was murdered, when we were working on a parliamentary inquiry into the discovery of forms of offshore accounts by the prime minister's chief of staff, by the now resigning minister. daphne caruana galizia collaborated with this parliament and cooperated with one of the parliamentary committees and when she was murdered she was a part of the rule of law in malta that was murdered too. in fact, what we have in malta is an open door to corruption, whether it be through tax havens or through the gold visas. and as i just mentioned, the fact that we don't have the necessary protection for investigative journalism is a guarantee that democracy doesn't work. we have a battalion of journalists who are trying to protect democracy. we need to have a battalion of governors who defend investigative journalism and who defend journalists. the presence of these members in the government until about two weeks ago, the presence of muscat still in the government, gives us no guarantee that there will be an impartial investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia. and in that sense, we must appeal. not in the sense of interference, but in the sense of respect for and protection of the rule of law. mr. muscat, please step down. and, ladies and gentlemen, we must show respect for each other. it's not a race to the bottom. it is not about who has the worst case, whether it is malta, whether it is hungary, whether it is poland, whether it is slovakia. it is the rule of law that is being buried in the european union and that, yes, should concern us, that, yes, should unite us to defend democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, immediately after the murder of daphne caruana galizia, we had a debate here in the european parliament. i would remind you that both parliament, through its then president, mr tajani, and the european commission, through its vice-president, mr timmermans, undertook to make the most of the situation. i remember in my speech i spoke about the mafia method used to kill daphne caruana galizia, because it was a very clear signal that no one should ever again stick their nose into that kind of interest. now, after two years, where are we? a businessman has been arrested, other people have been arrested, it is clear that the government is involved, but it is not clear how the various muscat, mizzi, and other officials are actually involved. what is still unclear is also the causes that led to them, what daphne caruana galizia was talking about, she was talking about recycling, she was talking about corruption, she was talking about dirty interests, but she was also talking about projects in which there is funding from the european commission, energy projects, electricity pipelines, gas pipelines, projects which are still funded by the european commission, through the cef and precisely through the list of projects of common interest. we must try to clarify this again. there are journalists who were detained a few weeks ago by the government, albeit temporarily. i still do not think there is much will to do so, and i hope that after this debate we can really insist on bringing the rule of law back to a state of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, joseph muscat and his government must resign as soon as this house has voted. the vote on our resolution will be a vote of no confidence in the european parliament and its government. but muscat must also resign to make it easier for the police and the judiciary to act, to find out how far the accomplices and the instigators and the murderers of daphne caruana galizia had come, to find out whether the instigators of this horrible murder were in the government building. second reason: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. malta is not like that. malta is a country we all love and needs to see its dignity restored by the resignation of the prime minister. and then his resignation must also tear a veil over complicity in more or less lawful business with countries of our european union, with governments of our european union, with party comrades, former prime ministers. and the european union must do more than it has done so far. i remember the defence in this muscat hall as well. the clash i had with the european commission over this. the commissioner has done well to send a letter and ask that the rule of law be restored in malta and that proper action be taken. well, we want to make it clear, that all countries are treated equally, because a journalist was murdered in malta. there is not just a normal violation of the rule of law, there is something even more serious, the murderers were hiding with complicity in the government building. that's why you need to resign. that is why, mr president, by restoring dignity to malta, by bringing justice, we will make the sacrifice of daphne caruana galizia worthwhile.
mr president, vice-president jourová, commissioner reynders, it is now more than two years since the whole european union was shocked to learn of the brutal, wanton and mafia-style murder of an investigative journalist in malta, daphne caruana galizia. we have paid tribute to his memory in this european parliament on many occasions, but the story is not over. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, we heard the testimony of his three sons - andrew, paul and matthew - and offered our commitment, first, to see justice done. justice must be done. we've got to see that justice is done. and that means trusting that the police investigations which have involved the fbi, europol and interpol will bring to a complete conclusion the clarification of all responsibilities whoever falls, and that, of course, the judiciary will do its job in malta. but there is more: the european message - in malta and throughout the european union - of fighting corruption to end the sale of golden passports, which open access to the free movement of mafiosi, must be underlined. the european union as a whole, malta and everywhere, must stop the laundering of money from illicit businesses and the collusion between political power and money, especially in a country which happens to be a very limited territory, the smallest country in the european union, with the smallest population in the entire european union. but above all we must ensure that we finally establish a rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy, which we have asked for again and again in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we support the missions that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has deployed to malta, the last one, urgently, very recently, just a week ago. and we take all its conclusions as our own, but the rule of law mechanism must ensure that all the states of the union submit themselves regularly, periodically, in a stable way, in a secure way, without criticism of political bias, to the respect of the fundamental parameters and values of the rule of law in the european union, of the independence of the judiciary in the european union. and we must also ensure that access to the funds and budgets of the european union is strictly subject to compliance with the rule of law. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think we all agree in this house - and it has been expressed on several occasions by the social democratic speakers - that the services must investigate, that we have confidence in the authorities, that they must investigate. and that there should be no prejudice on our part as european institutions, yes. but the political assessment has already been made. the prime minister has voluntarily submitted his resignation. the political evaluation has already been made. i therefore cannot understand why the socialist group is still holding on to muscat. i think muscat needs to clear the way now, make it clear that the authorities are allowed to investigate independently. therefore, the only demand that is now in the room is that he not stay in office for another 30 days, but that he resign immediately. the question to the social democrats is: why are you not prepared to support this demand?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr weber, all the member states of the european union which have a parliamentary democracy have their own mechanisms for dealing with the question of accountability, and it is up to malta to deal with the question of accountability for its prime minister, but it has already been done, and the prime minister has offered to resign. but, in addition to that, we must ensure that the rule of law mechanism rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy is respected by all member states and that strict anti-corruption standards are met which put an end to the collusion between political power and money, in malta and everywhere. the prime minister is going to resign, he has offered his resignation, he has made that clear; and i can only say that, in this case, political responsibilities have been ventilated at the highest level. i said "fall who falls". can anything in malta be higher than the post of prime minister? the case has paid off, but the lessons to be learned go much further: the fight against corruption and the rule of law, in malta and everywhere.
there were other blue card requests, but for practicality, and time management, we'll only accept one blue card per intervention.
mr president, two years have passed since daphne died. it has been too long and it has been too much. when this happened, 751 letters should have left this house to go to the prime minister’s office in malta with one single question: who ordered daphne caruana galizia’s murder and why? none of those ministers at the european council should have shaken muscat’s stained hands. every single hour which passes with muscat still in office, after everything that has happened, means defiance to the maltese people and lack of respect towards the european values. every single day which passes without us having european legislation to protect investigative journalists and to properly finance their projects and to protect them means a lost day. if we have a mission in this house, then this mission is to defend the rule of law, to defend justice and to stand up for those who actually fight for justice and finding the truth. poplu malti, aħna magħkom. ġustizzja għal daphne.
madam president, the rules must be the same for everyone, especially when we talk about justice, the rule of law and especially when we talk about people's lives. i'm amazed and concerned that two years after this tragic death nothing has happened yet and that's why i think we need the same rules. when we talk about people's lives, when we talk about states, when we talk about the rule of law, things have to be respected. and if we talk about cvm, about those mechanisms of cooperation and verification, about what happens in different european countries, the same mechanism should work for each country, and those who are subject to the assessment should benefit from the same presumption of innocence, so that things can be put into practice. i note the important steps taken in malta in addressing this issue and that they are open to european collaboration. so, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us make sure that the rules are the same for everyone and that every european state, every european citizen is treated equally.
i think we can all agree, madam president, that european funds must be distributed in accordance with the rules. specifically, it is immoral for heads of government to profit from european subsidies for their companies. no one can agree with that. that's why we have an amendment to the financial regulation that requires that conflicts of interest be excluded, and the commissioner mentioned it. i am very sorry that the good name of the czech republic is also at stake, because european funds have helped the czech republic, they have helped municipalities, citizens, they have helped build infrastructure, and now the good name of the czech republic is also at stake in connection with the conflict of interest of the prime minister. we expect the czech government to respond impartially to an audit that demonstrates a conflict of interest, but czech citizens are concerned about the influence of the media, the influence of the administration and the courts by the prime minister, because he has power. this is why people are repeatedly taking to the streets and demanding the resignation of the prime minister as part of the 'million moments for democracy' initiative. these citizens know that the european commission is doing its job. i call on the commission to be consistent in this matter, and i also call on you to publish the audit, which you yourself have declared to be final. it's good for transparency.
madam president, the definition of conflict of interest in the union's financial regulation comes almost 20 years after the council of europe's recommendations and is not bold enough. the regulation must be put into practice, and when we have such situations, we must say things as they are, regardless of group or country. we urgently need a european definition of legitimate public interest so that information on cases is available without any exception. romania has such a definition in law and can be an example. it is unacceptable to wait, on average, five years for a conflict of interest to be resolved which directly affects people's pockets and the financial interests of the union. we have the expertise, we can do much more and much faster. the control mechanisms for the distribution of european funds must be strengthened, without fear that we will affect the affairs of some or others, and it is time to have an independent european integrity agency to manage conflicts of interest in the union institutions, including the parliament or the council, to set an example in this respect and to the member states.
madam president, tudor ciuhodaru is my name, ciuhodaru. i'm an emergency physician in iasi, romania, and an old medical saying by ambroise paré was said over a hundred years ago, that it's easier to prevent than to treat. i think the same is true for corruption. so, honorable commission, honorable council, honorable colleagues, when are we going to have a national integrity agency? in romania, we worked on that law in the romanian parliament, and i'm telling you that it can be taken as an example of good practice to help us detect these potential cases, and help us prevent them. and i want zero tolerance for corruption, and i say to you today that we are not talking about left or right corruption, small or large, we are simply talking about corruption that takes away european money from infrastructure, from health and from education. secondly, when will we ensure that access to european funds is simplified - speaking of european funds - so that the same rules apply to everyone, the same rules apply to everyone? and speaking of common agricultural policies, when will romanian farmers get that subsidy like the french? because you know there are a lot of questions and a lot of grievances and a lot of disappointments about the fact that the same european rules don't apply in all countries. i want zero tolerance for corruption, as you do, and that is why i am asking the commission to set up this european integrity agency that can be the solution to the conflict of interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the current strategy for people with disabilities must of course be evaluated. but now it is clear: we need a new, we need a stronger strategy for the period after 2020 - a strategy that works effectively in all areas: school, work, leisure, health, sexuality, family, and that also resonates with all the eu citizens concerned. we are not talking about luxury problems or charity where there is no time pressure or compulsion. equal rights and self-determination are not a luxury, restricted freedom of movement and an increased risk of poverty, loneliness are not small problems! this is a matter of fundamental human rights for over 100 million people, and it is already clear that we in the european union have a lot of work to do. the commission does not need to wait for the evaluation of experts to listen and talk to people with disabilities, not about them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean to be a disabled person in the european union today? what are the opportunities and prospects? the present is not exactly rosy: of the 100 million disabled in europe, one in two is unemployed, two in three have not completed tertiary education or its equivalent and two in three are at risk of poverty. we spend a lot of time talking about it, but what are we actually willing to do to change the situation? i ask you this because even in the recent past, when we discussed the marrakesh treaty here in this house, we had to overcome enormous difficulties in order to get the treaty ratified, because the discussion always and only concerned the economic interests of a few. the starting point for me to change things is this: we need to stop thinking about the economy and start thinking about people's rights. that said, we are preparing to lay the foundations for the eu's disability strategy post-2020 and so, in my view, a comprehensive review of all eu legislation and policies is needed to ensure full harmonisation with the provisions of the un convention. it is necessary to ensure that every project financed by the european union includes accessibility among its points. this is also a way of informing and educating on these issues and it is necessary to involve the most representative organisations in this process. the task of this house is to ensure that every citizen has a full life free from any kind of discrimination.
mr president, a hundred million europeans are waiting for the commissioner to come forward and propose the new european disability strategy. we have had a strategy, 2010-2020, which has had its ups and downs. there has been a european accessibility act. the whole transport issue, the tourism issue, the accessible environment issue, the micro-enterprises issue were not covered in this act. we have a chance to make it right. the commissioner told us that she has set up a working group. i'm asking for the day and time. because the new european disability strategy, with the subject of taking stock of the old, cannot be delayed any longer. we need the new strategy, because it is the only way, the only tool we have to make the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities really come into force. so we know what's accessible and what's not. and when something is not accessible, face it and eliminate it. we need the new european disability strategy so that we can have a truly inclusive education, with real budget, with reasonable adjustments in work. we need data. we're short on data. you've talked about women. we do not have detailed data on the number of disabled people in europe, on the number of women, on how we can assess this, and that is why i ask you to... (the president withdraws the speaker)
thank you, chairman. commissioner dalli, i welcome and hope that the disability aspect will indeed be an important part of all the commission's work. i believe that one of the greatest achievements of the eu's disability strategy to 2020 is the european accessibility act adopted last year. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the accessibility act and its implementation in the member states. we also need to ensure that the next decade is fully guaranteed in other areas of public services. for example, access to education, employment, health care is essential. the future strategy must also fully implement the provisions of the social pillar, so that our people with disabilities have adequate social guarantees to ensure a dignified life and services that allow them to participate in society and the labour market.
mr president, there are 100 million disabled people in europe, and 840 000 of them are in romania. let's not forget that it is for them that we are debating here today and that we must demonstrate by our actions that we are their voice. a new strategy is needed that takes into account the lessons of the past and commits to supporting in practice all rights as set out in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the next ten years, to guarantee their access and integration into society. a commission strategy must have at least three points. first: ensuring access to society for people with disabilities through integrated measures on education, health, housing, mobility and accessibility to public services. second, investing in opportunities for people with disabilities to live as independent and active lives as possible, especially in terms of access to and integration into the labour market. and finally, equality, stronger anti-discrimination legislation to ensure that they feel integrated into european society and that their rights as european citizens are respected.
mr. chairman, i admit i didn't think you'd give me the floor, but thank you, because i'm a doctor, an emergency physician, and i've treated many patients like this, and i want to make this very clear. we have a very ambitious policy, we have a fair assessment of the number of citizens at european level, but to really ensure that european quality standard for every disabled person, we need funds. i think that on this european quality standard in healthcare that i keep talking about, we should develop special programmes from the cohesion funds, whereby we give every european citizen who has a problem, a disability, the chance to have equal access to education, to healthcare, to everything that is their daily life, because otherwise we can speak beautifully, there are extraordinary statements, we can make strategies, but i remind you that many countries will not be able to afford to provide these things. and if we leave them to subsidiarity, i have a big problem with the fact that this strategy will have a lot to lose. i ask for every european citizen with disabilities to think about such a situation, and that social pillar becomes the future of every citizen with disabilities.
mr. president, to paraphrase neil armstrong a little bit at the time of the moon landing: it seems like a small initiative for pollinators, but it's an initiative with a major impact for humanity. because let's not forget that the future of humanity, as we know it at least, depends on it. there is no substitute for these bees and the commission must now ensure that it has firm policies, both administrative, legislative and economic, because if we are talking about interventions at the state level alone, they will be ineffective. i'm a doctor, an emergency physician, and i know the effects of toxins on this bee population, and we can't just talk about neonicotinoids, but we can also talk about organophosphates, which are just as bad for the bee population. on the other hand, it's easier to prevent than to treat, at least that's what an old medical saying from the time of ambroise paré says, hundreds of years old. so it is time to turn to the conservation of natural habitats and, why not, an initiative to ban the cutting of european forests at least during this five-year mandate. i'm convinced that we're on the right track, but remember that there is no substitute for these bees.
mr president, commissioner, you come, like me, from a country where bees and butterflies are part of the wealth. almost eur 15 billion of the european union's annual agricultural production is directly attributed to pollinating insects. for many crops, the contribution of pollinators can be as much as half the market value of the product. pollinators are dwindling. they're being reduced by pesticides, they're being reduced by urbanization, they're being reduced by increased pollution, they're being reduced by temperature changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because, in addition to the quantity of pesticides, their composition also plays a role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. our producers, our farmers, are the ones who have traditionally known how to respect bees and to exploit their wealth.
mr president, the great einstein mentioned this topic many years ago when he said that, if bees died out, a human life wouldn’t last long subsequently. and how right he was. i remember discussing this in parliament some years ago, when the great astrid lulling, whom the meps’ lounge is called after, was championing the cause of bees, and here we are again, asking the commission – especially now – to deal with it and to reverse the trend that is there. and i think it can be done. obviously, harmful pesticides have to be curtailed and replaced, but more importantly, i think, is the next cap offers a tremendous opportunity to create biodiversity in every single farm across europe by incentivising farmers to make their farms a haven for bees and pollinators, and i think they would welcome that with open arms. so the policy has to change; it has to encourage the farmers, and then i think we will not have to be discussing this topic in future, because the trend would be reversed, and we will save the bees and human life.
mr president, as has already been mentioned, the decline of pollinators is a problem in terms of biodiversity but also in terms of crop endangerment. and farmers who are really farming know what's bad and what's good, but they're also under a lot of economic pressure. we need to stand up for our farmers. if we tighten the conditions, we can't simultaneously reduce financial support. do we want farmers to meet more ecological criteria? we should therefore invest more in the first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy. reducing pesticides is an important step, but it must be based on impact studies that also offer farmers other sustainable practices. we can't just ban pesticides without addressing how farmers are replacing them. let's make environmental changes responsibly to pollinators and to our farmers.
mr president, the need to protect pollinators and their habitats is indisputable, ladies and gentlemen, as are the benefits of their activity for agricultural productivity and the environment and, of course, obviously, for people. we are recognising the added value in this debate, the added value of the european union initiative on pollinators that the commission launched in june 2018. however, much of the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is very critical of the commission, the member states and farmers. and i want to remind you all of this: european legislation on the authorization and use of plant protection products is one of the most rigorous and reliable in the world, and the european union has banned the use of the three most widely used neonicotinoids in the open air - which i agreed to because it was inevitable for public health. and i want to say in conclusion: we are asking all the member states to implement the 2013 efsa bee guidance, but no paragraph in tomorrow's resolution is asking for errors in the methodology to be corrected, and it is impracticable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the motion for a resolution on pollinators is an absolutely necessary step in the european union's green strategy. the green deal is about more than just preventing pollution. it means taking concrete measures to improve the environment. and we can't talk about improving the environment without talking about pollinators. i would like to emphasise the importance of measures and programmes for the effective protection of pollinators, to draw attention to the fact that these programmes have no chance of success without the right funding to go directly to the territory, with a direct improvement in the number of pollinators and their lifetime, in the case of projects that pursue objectives with quantifiable results. there is a lot of research in this area, and it is of undeniable quality. it is up to us and the european commission to find a way to put these results into practice on the ground so that the impact is visible directly in nature.
before i give the floor to mr buda, i would like to take this opportunity, colleagues, to wish you all a very merry christmas and a happy new year for the year 2020 that lies ahead.
mr president, the death of over 14,000 sheep in the black sea is undeniably a tragedy. this is clear evidence that human error doesn't just lead to plane crashes, highway traffic accidents, and loss of life, but that human error can also happen when we're talking about animals being slaughtered. even though the loading conditions were met and the state authorities, in partnership with ngos, intervened immediately in difficult conditions, only a few animals were rescued from the troubled waters. we are therefore forced to think about identifying measures that develop the slaughter capacity for animals as close as possible to where they grew up. given that arab countries only want live animals, member states should ensure that welfare standards are respected throughout the transport.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the recent incident in romania now shows once again that regulation (ec) no 1/2005 simply does not fulfil its purpose of protecting animals during transport. i repeat the date: we have had this regulation since 2005. now it's time to change your mind. this year 2019 the european parliament, in an implementation report, called on the commission to develop a strategy to promote the transport of meat and carcasses, to move away from this old promotion of transporting live animals in short, to change a trading model. i now ask the commission, and i am anxious to hear the answer, but the whole intergroup on animal welfare is anxious to hear the answer: when can the commission tell us and, above all, how is the commission finally going to start work on introducing a tool for the conversion to trade in meat and animal products, to make it clear that we should be transporting meat and carcasses or transporting semen, but no longer live animals? that is the answer i would like to hear from you.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam president, we all saw those heartbreaking images last month. other images have taken place on other occasions, in other european ports, in portugal, in other countries in europe. during transport of live animals within and outside the union, they often suffer from thirst, hunger, exposure to excessive heat or lack of space. yes, the trade in animals is important, meat is an essential commodity, but we have to think constructively, because we have to defend animal rights and european legislation. i would therefore like to remind you of regulation no 1/2005 and of the interpretation given by the european court of justice and of the need to ensure that european rules are respected from the point of origin to the point of destination. we need to act a little more firmly in this area and help member states to achieve this. at the same time, i want to tell you that we need to provide farmers with strong financial mechanisms to encourage them to choose to keep live animals in the union and to move towards exporting meat, and this can be done through the common agricultural policy. i want to bring you another issue in this discussion; it's the issue of international treaties. it is the european union that has the power, in international trade treaties, to impose high standards of animal protection on the other countries with which we trade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thirteen years after the entry into force of the reference regulation, violations are still the norm rather than the exception and millions of animals are forced to make hellish journeys every year, crowded together without food or water, in temperatures sometimes exceeding 40 degrees. a true wild west, as certified by the commission's audits. perhaps that's why they've decreased so drastically over time, in 2017 you had seven, in 2018 four, only one in 2019 and it's not yet clear whether there will be any in 2020. i therefore hope that the new commission will remember what its role is, namely to ensure that european law is correctly applied throughout the union and then act accordingly. but since this has not yet happened, we in the european parliament will remind you by setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate instances of maladministration in the implementation and enforcement of the standards and norms laid down by european law, which i very much hope will finally come to light shortly, because announced tragedies, such as the one that occurred off the coast of romania only a few weeks ago, are never repeated. i shall conclude with three specific questions to the commission, to which i hope to have an answer. how many audits do you intend to conduct in 2020? when might we see a strategy for a transition from transport of live animals to transport of meat and carcasses? and finally, when do you intend to revise the regulation to put an end to long-distance travel?
madam president, without a doubt, what has happened to this sheep ship in romania is a terrible misfortune that none of us here like. it is therefore right to ask romania for explanations and, of course, to demand that the legislation be complied with. but i have to tell you, commissioner, that i think the commission is on the right track. the member states must be required to comply with the rules in force. we have a regulation which the commissioner has said is not being complied with, which is usually not complied with. so before we ask for another, we will demand that this regulation be complied with. we also need to promote animal welfare campaigns in third countries, and we could promote them. but, ladies and gentlemen, i think it's in the debate within the animal welfare platform that we need to keep moving forward, and it's a big step forward to bring animal welfare into the green deal. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, animal welfare is much, much more than transport to third countries, and we never talk about it.
president, commissioner, this is a matter of great concern to me. i grew up on a farm where we were on call day and night to take care of our animals. when you sell your animals, you assume that they'll be treated the same way elsewhere. i am therefore sick to my stomach when i see how animals are transported and treated at the borders with third countries. eyes are gouged out and animals are beaten with iron rods and dragged along by their horns. i can't believe you did that. we can recall the recent incident in romania, where a ship full of sheep capsized and the animals were left to their fate. we must take a very hard line on this kind of practice. we as the european union are fully responsible for this and i am deeply ashamed of it. if we cannot guarantee that animals are exported in an animal-friendly way, then we should not allow them to be exported. after all, rules are meant to be followed.
i have to say, madam president, what has now happened to the 14,000 sheep is the culmination of a lasting scandal. we see the reports from the bulgarian-turkish border every year. we know what happens to the transport of animals across europe, so to speak, because you are heading for a cheap slaughterhouse somewhere. this is not new. it is a pity that we have to debate this every year, that we passed a report last year, but nothing seems to be happening. i am afraid that nothing will happen again because the member states simply do not carry out checks. the member states are deliberately turning a blind eye. and i must say that the commission is not looking closely either. how can it be that we have laws that are systematically not respected, that we demand stricter measures in parliament, but that the council also seems to ignore them completely? i can't let that happen again. but it's also because of an export-oriented system of farming, where you export surplus animals just so we can sell them cheaply somewhere. that too is a cause of scandal.
madam president, romania is just one of the european union countries from which live animals are transported to third countries. for romania, animal husbandry is an important economic activity, but as countries that only accept trade in live animals, animal welfare has been a constant concern for us, including when we held the rotating presidency of the council. most of the measures of regulation no 1/2005 are already implemented and romania will introduce additional standards to this regulation, such as the increase of the area per head by 20%, the presence of a veterinarian on board the vessel, limits and daily monitoring of the temperature on board. today, the regulation only provides for temperature limits for transport by road, not by sea. currently, in romania there are two legislative proposals in the romanian parliament, made together with ngos and international transport experts, which will regulate very strictly the authorisation of shipping vessels. the accident in the port of midia was a tragedy, it is regrettable, but romania... (the president interrupted the speaker) ... has a solid legislation and the most important thing is to apply the law strictly.
madam president, what happened in the black sea port is undoubtedly a tragedy and we must take all measures to ensure that this does not happen again. at the same time, however, i do not think that the romanian farmer should be the one to pay because, in this incident, he has absolutely no fault. on the contrary, the romanian farmer breeds his animals according to the highest standards imposed by the common agricultural policy and not only that, but his subsidies are conditional on this. secondly, i can assure you that no farmer in the world who has invested energy, time and money in raising their animals does not send them to export with the thought that they will end up in terrible conditions. third, the romanian farmer often encounters insurmountable obstacles when trying to sell his products on the european market or even in hypermarkets in his own country. as things stand, the non-eu states are, at this point, his only chance of survival. the solution, then, is not to stop the export of live animals, but to tighten the rules we impose on third countries, especially when it comes to long-distance transport, to monitor closely compliance with these rules, to ensure and encourage the slaughter of animals in the country of origin, because we have the trade in meat, which would bring more benefits to both the farmer and the livestock sector and the country.
madam president, millions of citizens saw the gruesome pictures of the ship carrying 40 000 sheep sinking off the coast of romania. this is not the first time, and i’m afraid it will not be the last time, that this has happened. but let’s be honest: would the alternative for these sheep have been any better, being stuck on a cold ship for weeks in their thousands, left in their own dirt and thrown overboard when they die of hunger or exhaustion? whom are we kidding here? the mass export of live animals will never be able to guarantee good animal welfare conditions. we need to stop this absurd and cruel business model. let’s stop subsidising intensive animal agriculture, which produces so many animals, we don’t know where to ship them any more. let’s work towards a ban on the transport of live animals to third countries. the eu’s inaction is growing more and more obvious by the day, and we need to act fast if we don’t want citizens to lose all faith in us.
madam president, commissioner, i am very disappointed in your performance. you haven't told us much. for five years, during the last parliamentary term, we tried to enforce a ban on the transport of live animals to third countries and to set a clear time limit of eight hours for the transport of animals within the european union. it's the only way to help these poor animals. the incident in romania is just the tip of the iceberg, animals are suffering in thousands of transports across europe. we, if we want to do something about it, and you are the commissioner in the commission, who has a green deal here and wants to be green, then really push for a radical change that helps the animals. checks and soft measures don't solve the situation. the situation is getting worse and worse, more and more animals are being exported to third countries, and the situation is catastrophic and only a ban can solve it. common sense says we're to transport meat, not live animals. please do something about it.
madam president, i understand your concerns and support the establishment of slaughterhouses, particularly in areas where they are lacking. i would like to ask you what the short-term consequences would be of banning the transport of live animals from the european union. first of all, it would mean famines in certain parts of the world -- and i say this clearly -- famines because of the lack of certain products. on the other hand, it means the bankruptcy of farmers, who would no longer have markets to sell. recent data has confirmed that these phenomena -- bankruptcies and famines -- lead to desperate acts, whether it's farmer suicides or migrants shipwrecked in the mediterranean. i believe that, in addition to animal welfare, we must take a rational stance and give priority to the interests of human beings when making any decision. let's check the transporters, the way they transport live animals over the sea because otherwise australia, new zealand, argentina... (president interrupts speaker)... are eagerly awaiting the release of the markets in the east... (president withdraws speaker's speech).
madam president, madam commissioner, in the previous term of office i worked on this question, on this resolution, which set out the european parliament's priorities on the central issue of digital transformation and its impact on health care. i now welcome my colleague sara cerdas, who is taking up this task and with whom i tabled joint amendments to the resolution under discussion. the digital transformation is a huge opportunity to improve the quality of services provided, to focus response systems on user needs and to provide more universal access to health services and in particular to the most technologically and scientifically advanced responses. priority should be given to developing inclusion networks that train and equip users with the knowledge and tools necessary for universal and informed participation. access systems should therefore be user-friendly, interoperable and secured through mechanisms and tools provided or regulated by public entities. another priority is to promote secure data sharing in a cross-border context. more data allows for better answers for more people. the progressive digitalisation of many health response processes and systems also provides an opportunity to improve the effectiveness of partnerships between the various actors in the system, in particular between private and public actors. the european union must launch the ambitious widespread training programme, crossing the accessibility to high definition networks with skills for their use. it is essential to ensure a model for the secure capture and provision of data for research, ensuring a fair sharing of the gains from this process. health promotion will increasingly interact with the development of the digital single market. the regulation must be made with clear priorities in the defence of citizens and the quality of the services provided to them, while valuing all the professionals involved. this resolution makes an important contribution to the path i have just outlined.
madam president, commissioner kyriakides, the digital transformation of healthcare has to start from the patient. we have a duty to ensure that the patient remains the central building block of digital health, that they have discretionary access to their own data. for romania, cross-border medical treatment has become a common reality due to a considerable part of the population living, studying or working in the european community. an electronic patient record, containing the entire medical history, from childhood vaccination schedule to the last cold, would be a big step forward. digital history could prevent misdiagnosis or delayed diagnosis of diseases, real diseases that sometimes go undetected, such as primary immunodeficiencies. so i want to encourage you with the digital electronics projects that you're doing and especially the electronic health infrastructure side.
madam president, i’m representing the dutch party 50plus. half of the population is 50+, and it’s nice to know that the other half is eager to become it. but, for my voters, health and care is very, very important, as you may be aware. i want to add some following points. preventive healthcare is key to lowering the cost of healthcare systems. i want to know if the european commission is prepared, with regard to the free movement of services, to oblige member states to allow all forms of preventive healthcare. secondly, the right food is your best pharmacist. is the european commission willing to make it easier to get medical health claims on fresh foods? with the digital revolution, we can give better and more information to help people to live more healthily, and that makes life easier.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’ll be very brief – i took longer in my opening remarks, so i’ll be brief now. we all know that the digital transformation of healthcare can be a game changer, and i’m just going to repeat that the commission is committed to this. we are also aware that we need to leave no—one behind: we need to provide skills training and we need to protect data, and i think this is very important. we need to build trust-based systems. the digital transformation of health and care and the development of the european health data space are ambitious goals, and by the end of 2020 the commission will come up with a data strategy which will include health data. so we’re very much at the beginning of this journey, and it is important that we all build this digital health future together. in ending, may i also extend my best wishes for the coming festive season.
and thank you, commissioner, we wish you a very good christmas and indeed new year. i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule136(1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 18 december 2019.
as you know, the first item on the agenda today is the commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the treaty of lisbon and the legally binding fundamental charter. i would remind members that there is no 'catch-the-eye' procedure for this occasion and no 'blue card' applications will be accepted. mr president of the council, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us here to celebrate together the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and of the legally binding charter of fundamental rights. on 1 december last, at a beautiful ceremony at the house of european history, attended by president ursula von der leyen, president charles michel and president christine lagarde, we wanted to symbolically commemorate this anniversary and welcome the beginning of the new institutional cycle of this legislature. every time we come to strasbourg and pass through germany, we cross a border, and we don't realize it, but it's a border that has been bloodied for generations of europeans since 1870. it is normal for us to cross it in peace, but this is an achievement, it was a great achievement, and we should not take it for granted, especially today, when we are celebrating the 75th anniversary of the battle of the bulge, which claimed the lives of tens of thousands of young europeans and marked several generations. it is important to remember that the european project is the only one that has enabled us to build an area of peace, freedom and democracy. these are the values we must defend every day, working for the european union and making it stronger and more effective. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon ten years ago was a great step forward for the european institutions and citizens, for our countries and in particular for parliament, for european democracy, because it strengthened the democratic character of our union, its effectiveness, its transparency and gave citizens an important role as well. citizens have a greater say under the lisbon treaty. for ten years now, parliament has shared with the council the task of approving the union's annual budget and has played an ever more decisive role in implementing european policies. but let us not forget that behind the figures, the budget lines and the financial framework there are always people and it is to them that europe must be able to give answers. thanks to the lisbon treaty, respect for human dignity, freedom, equality, democracy, solidarity and the rule of law have become the pillars on which the european union is based and have been legally binding for all member states and all institutions for ten years. unfortunately, discrimination continues to affect our countries as well. the news constantly reminds us that violence against women and racism, and all forms of intolerance, are still humiliating many european citizens. on this anniversary, just a few days before the international day of human solidarity, i would like to renew our commitment to a europe that is freer and more united. we have to keep thinking about our future together. we have to walk together. with the large turnout in the last elections, our citizens sent us a clear message: they want to contribute more to the european project. i am convinced that the conference on the future of europe, which we intend to hold in the coming months, is and will be an opportunity which we must not miss. it will be an opportunity to listen to the people, to understand their expectations and their needs and also their hopes and to allow our democracy to function better. it will be our duty to put these demands into practice and to complete this task in order to ensure that the union is able to deal even more effectively with the global challenges that lie ahead. of course, all this will have to be translated into parliamentary acts and into policy, and i believe that our generation can meet these challenges.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let’s face it – with the lisbon treaty, europe settled after the failure to create a true european constitution. we were not put down; instead, we learned from our setbacks, we actually made progress thanks to a moment of crisis of the european union. the lisbon treaty created a union out of a community. it gave europe a political face to speak as one in foreign policy, sitting at the same table of world leaders at nato and, for example, on the iran nuclear deal. it strengthens the role of citizens. co-decision became the central way of legislation in europe. the european parliament, our institution, is today a powerful institution, and we added new responsibilities to the european level. the fight against crime, exchange of data, parts of the asylum policy became european issues. this decision has brought europe more security and safety, and it gave a binding character to the charter of fundamental rights, embedding our european way of life. the charter tells us what it means to be in a european – social market economy, protection of our environment, rule of law, democracy and freedom. europe has never walked in a straight line. both progress and setbacks shape it. the lisbon treaty was a huge step towards a modern way of cooperation among the european union member states. edmund burke said ‘a state without the means of some change is without the means for its conservation’. so 10 years after the lisbon treaty, let us take the next bold steps now. the upcoming conference on the future of europe is the best opportunity for doing so. as giscard d’estaing opened the european convention, he said ‘let’s dream of europe’ and i would say let’s dream again. as our community develops, we must now answer fundamental questions. what are the main areas where the european union must act in the future? we must carry out a competence check in the european union. the european union must focus only on issues where we really have a positive impact on citizens’ daily life. still, in necessary fields, the eu also needs the right tools to act. a second point for the future – how can we strengthen the parliamentary democracy at european level? – is still at stake. because the citizens will only trust europe when they will hold decision makers accountable. and a third point: how can we strengthen europe’s role in the world? standing in the clash between china and the us, europe can either get lost in the chaos or speak with one voice. in our election campaign as the epp this year, the listening tour was our starting point. let’s now write the history of our union together with the people, working side by side with the citizens, national and regional parliaments, with the european parliament in the central role as the house of the elected representatives. for the european people’s party group we have a clear idea. it will be not about the minimum common denominator, but the best possible sum of our ideas. it will not be a theoretical exercise, but a concrete start for a more democratic europe and it will not be a technical exercise, but a real debate about what it means to be a european. to create next to our national identity also the european identity. let this 10-year anniversary be the start of a new european dream. the epp group is ready to make the difference. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ten years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this is a good opportunity to take stock. we can say that the treaty of lisbon was a success of the portuguese presidency, with a socialist government, at a very delicate moment for the union project. we all remember the trauma of the rejection of the european constitution by two of our member states in 2005 and the uncertainty that this generated. however, we must recognize that the work of the convention in 2002 and 2003 was not in vain and that a significant effort was made to take up the challenges of the union. communities had focused too much on market issues, on market aspects, forgetting that we were capable of doing a much more ambitious process. we want a european democracy capable of solving the problems of citizens. it was necessary to address issues such as fundamental rights, the europe of citizens and also to promote social rights. however, the referendums in france and the netherlands showed that at least some citizens did not feel involved in the process. fortunately, many important aspects were included in the lisbon treaty and, thanks to that, significant progress has been made. on the one hand, the european union now has legal personality and can accede to international treaties and conventions. and the role of our house, parliament, has also been greatly strengthened, and citizen participation has been improved. the charter of fundamental rights is legally binding and the rights of european citizenship have been enhanced. is that enough? obviously not. it is clear that citizens expect more from us, and that is why the conference on the future of europe is an opportunity we cannot pass up to relaunch the integration process and make it more democratic, more dynamic and closer to the people. let's not make the same mistakes as in the past. citizens and civil society must be involved from the start, and they must feel involved. and we can't make any decisions a priori without relying on them. if there is political will, we can do much more with the treaty. there's still a tour. for example, consolidating the list headers system as well as transnational lists. with political will we could overcome the paralysis of unanimity on such important issues as taxation or foreign policy. and that would ensure fair taxation and enable us to overcome situations such as the blockage of the accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. we cannot waste a minute on this issue either. in fact, the members of the council know this, and that is why last week they found a way to go beyond unanimity in an informal way to guarantee carbon neutrality by 2050. i hope that it will not be left there and that the council will formally agree to reduce the areas of decision by unanimity. only then will we be able to react in time, with determination, to the challenges we face. we are entering a new political cycle and it is time to be brave. europe is not what it was ten years ago. we could talk about the climate emergency, gender violence, refugees knocking on europe's door hoping to have a future, child poverty; so many, many issues we need to work on. let us take this opportunity seriously and work with citizens and civil society to make our europe stronger and better.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, we are at a very important moment for the european union. you said in your inaugural speech, as you know, mr president, you who have just taken on an extremely important office: ten years is a good age. in france, it is the age when children move from school to college and then to high school, that is to say, they enter a new era, a new life, one in which they separate a little - i was going to say, from the comfort of school - to go to a situation that is more complicated, which allows them to face the world to come. the world has changed in ten years; you know it, we know it. the challenge we face now is not the challenge we had to face ten years ago. climate issues, social issues, migration issues, population movements, democracy issues, the danger to our democracies and sometimes even within the union itself, the rule of law, are new topics. we need to change the rules. in a changing world, we must also change our own rules, we must do so in a democratic way and with respect for the rule of law; i say, and i turn to the council: intergovernmental relations must evolve, you must now rely more on the representatives of the citizens, that is to say the european parliament. the treaty of lisbon has made this first step possible. it is absolutely essential to continue this process and the council itself must become more transparent. the commission will then be able to rely on two co-legislators. yes, that was just explained. the conference on the future of europe, which you mentioned in your speech, madam president, is something new and essential. within ten years, citizens, civil society, entered the public debate. we must now take their expectations into account in a very strong way. we cannot continue to be a european union with or without citizens and civil society. that is why, for this conference on the future of europe, we must not simply listen to citizens, we must involve them in our european project, so that finally, in the 21st century, there is a european citizenship that is established, which is not the sum of the 27 citizenships of each of the member states. there is something higher: the general european interest. madam president, mr president, i know that parliament will be there to help you to ensure that citizens and civil society are included in the public debate. help us, do not miss this chance, which may be one of the last opportunities for europe to be able to get closer to its citizens. mr president, i will end with this: 70 years ago, another event took place. sir winston churchill spoke a few hundred metres from here, on a balcony in kleber square, and he said just these few words, and i would like to quote them because they are still relevant: 'the dangers that threaten us are great, but so is our strength. there is no reason why we should not succeed in achieving the goal and establishing the structure of this united europe. that was true 70 years ago, and it's more true now than ever.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago, when i had just joined the european parliament, the treaty of lisbon came into force. today, i am still delighted with what i see as a step forward in the construction of the transnational democracy that the european union is destined to become. without lisbon, this parliament would not have won the right to ratify or not ratify international treaties, it would not have won the right to co-decide on most european matters, or to hear and appoint the main european officials, starting with the european commission. it was also in lisbon that the charter of fundamental rights acquired this legally binding character in order to better protect dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity, citizenship and justice for all in the union. but i cannot ignore the fact that for many of our fellow citizens, particularly in france, the netherlands and ireland, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon was seen as a negation of their refusal, a refusal often motivated by the maintenance, at the very heart of the new treaty, of extremely neoliberal provisions, such as the prohibition on the central bank financing public investment, or the sanctification of the free movement of capital, which was raised to the level of an absolute and intangible dogma. this is a symbol of the extreme imbalance between economic freedoms guaranteed by law and social rights, which are still too often declarations of intent. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon allows the european parliament to reject treaties which it considers to be contrary to the general interest. let us dare, let us dare, ladies and gentlemen, to do so by rejecting the free trade agreement with mercosur, which can only worsen the climate crisis. the lisbon treaty also gives parliament codecision on the common agricultural policy, so let us use this lever to demand a new proposal from the commission, in line with the green deal for europe. the lisbon treaty opens the door to the commission, mrs von der leyen, to circumvent the rule of unanimity in tax matters. dare to use article 116 to force, or at least propose, harmonization of corporate taxation. let us be bold, ladies and gentlemen, and the confidence of the citizens of the union will be our reward.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should be here today to mark the 10th anniversary of what was supposed to be an agreement that would relaunch the union towards a future of growth and prosperity. unfortunately, the reality of the matter is that that agreement has proved to be a failure. and today the eu institutions are weaker. today the european citizens are weaker and the european union is in a deep institutional and political crisis. and this is, in my view, the symbol of the failure of the approach of a centralised policy that lisbon wanted to bring about, which did not respect the prerogatives of the national states, the prerogatives of the peoples and the differences between european citizens, between european nations, which are seen here as a danger, whereas they should be a value, they should be protected. and i see similarities today in the approach of that time in making the same mistakes, which i believe the council and its predecessor, president michel, made with regard to the brexit referendum. at the time, the european institutions showed an aversion to what was a sentiment expressed by some people, and the same mistake was made with brexit, but the result was different. if the outcome of the irish referendum was then successfully and deliberately overturned, today, despite three years of mistakes and the wrong approach, in my opinion, by the council, it has not been possible to overturn what was the result and the choice of the british people made in 2016. my advice is not to make the same mistake. we are going to have to negotiate an important agreement with the united kingdom from january onwards and the approach which the council will have to take in this house will not be an approach of wanting to punish the british people for their choice, an approach of wanting to try to overturn a democratic decision made by the british people, but working for an agreement which protects our businesses, which protects our citizens and which allows us, even after 2020, to have a fruitful cooperation relationship with the united kingdom. if europe, if the european institutions are not able to listen more to the citizens, to take account of the decisions and prerogatives of the member states, i do not know whether we will be able to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the lisbon treaty in ten years' time.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr president, it has been ten years since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. a treaty that was supposed to be a treaty creating a constitution for europe. this treaty is also one of the reasons for the creation of the 'european conservatives and reformists' group in the european parliament, because we defend our european values, which are patriotism, patriotism, traditions and free market. the aim of this treaty ostensibly meant more transparency, efficiency and unity of position, but in reality it led to division and the decline of democracy. the lisbon treaty has led to excessive centralisation, the devolution of powers from the national states and slow and cumbersome decision-making. the bureaucracy, as well as the short-sighted decisions that were taken, led to doubts in the work of the institutions on the part of the citizens instead of increasing their trust. the lisbon treaty is also one of the reasons for brexit. today, there are people in this room who continue to allow themselves to attack nation states, to challenge the decisions of legitimately elected governments and majorities. there are people in this room today who want countries to be punished for their sovereign decisions, like decisions on migration or taking in illegal immigrants. is that why the treaty of lisbon gave more powers to the european parliament? i don't want to believe that this is the case because it damages the credibility of the project called the european union. i don't believe in federalism, i don't believe in the superstate that is now called the european union. i don't believe in this project that wants to replace my homeland. i consider the lisbon treaty a mistake, because it was a compromise and a serious but misguided attempt at a misguided federation. we don't need this kind of federation. we need a europe of homelands, a europe of strong nation states that respect, compete and fight for the european union to move forward.
mr president, if it hadn’t been for the lisbon treaty it is quite possible that we would not have brexit now. so perhaps we should be grateful that you decided to expand your power, you started creating an eu super-state and you ignored nation-states’ democracy and voters. indeed, the labour party at the time didn’t give us a referendum on it, they probably regret that now, and ireland of course had a referendum, got the wrong results and had to vote again. let’s remember what margaret thatcher said in her bruges speech, that europe shouldn’t be an institutional device to be constantly modified according to some abstract intellectual concept. but that is what it has become. that is what it has become. however, of course, the lisbon treaty did contain article 50, the means of leaving the eu, and even that was a trap, designed to frustrate an exiting nation until they reversed their decision. but britain has voted free of that, thanks to the pressure of nigel farage and brexit party, which led to a reformed tory party under boris johnson. we will be leaving the eu on 31 january. so by all means, celebrate your lisbon treaty, but we will be celebrating the regaining of our sovereignty, independence and democracy as a free country once again.
president of the commission. – mr president, when we look at the beginning of this century, something was missing in the european project. the iron curtain had already fallen, the european communities were already a well—established reality, and yet they lacked something. in the words of my predecessor, jacques delors, europe needed a soul. il a dit: ‘c’était le moment de donner une âme à l’europe. ’and this is what lisbon is all about. if you ask the lawyers, they will explain that the lisbon treaty has given europe a single legal personality. yes, of course this was so, but it is more. the lisbon treaty has given europe a soul, or rather it has rediscovered europe’s true soul: the soul that made us fight against tyranny and defeat it; the soul that brought down the iron curtain and reunited our continent. the lisbon treaty went to the core of the european identity: democracy, the rule of law, rights and liberties for all. and lisbon gave centre stage to the citizens of europe. it has brought more power to the european parliament: the house of the european democracy. it has called national parliaments to the forefront, and it has given to the european citizens the right to call on the commission to propose legislation. it was a breath of fresh air that went through the european democracy. the european project, yes, was built around the economy, but europe was always meant to be more than coal and steel; more than the single market. it was always meant to be a union, and with lisbon, europe rediscovered this vocation. monsieur le président, chers députés, ces dix dernières années, des vents redoutables ont soufflé sur notre union. mais notre union est comme un roseau, qui plie mais ne rompt pas. les nouveaux défis ne la paralysent pas, mais l’aident à avancer, parce qu’elle puise sa force dans les principes et les valeurs de ses traités et du peuple européen. notre union n’est pas un fait accompli, elle est une construction perpétuelle, elle est un choix à renouveler chaque jour et cela, c’est sa beauté et sa singularité. je suis convaincue que nous n’avons pas encore utilisé toutes les possibilités du traité de lisbonne. depuis 2016, en tant que ministre allemande de la défense, j’ai contribué à l’avancement de la coopération structurée permanente en matière de défense – c’est typique de l’europe, d’appeler cela ainsi – en bref, l’union de la défense. elle figurait déjà dans les traités, mais son potentiel n’avait pas été découvert. le traité en a encore beaucoup d’autres à nous offrir. et pour que l’europe soit encore plus efficace, plus forte et plus souveraine, il nous revient maintenant de mettre en œuvre tout le potentiel de lisbonne – et nous avons entendu à ce sujet beaucoup de propositions dans cette salle, aujourd’hui. alors que nous célébrons ces dix années passées, nos regards se tournent maintenant vers les dix années suivantes. elles seront ce que nous voudrons en faire, elles seront ce que les citoyens européens voudront en faire. au temps de lisbonne, on se demandait encore si l’europe pouvait avoir un hymne ou un drapeau. au cours de ces dix dernières années, des millions de citoyens européens sont descendus dans la rue, brandissant le drapeau bleu aux douze étoiles, notre drapeau européen. et des millions d’européens se sont enthousiasmés en découvrant les notes de l’«hymne à la joie», le merveilleux hymne de notre union. l’europe, ce sont ses citoyens. c’est pourquoi la conférence sur l’avenir de l’europe doit aussi être, avant tout, leur conférence. nous devons entendre ce qu’ils ont à nous dire, nous devons répondre à leurs préoccupations et à leurs espoirs. cela, c’est le plus bel hommage que nous pouvons rendre au traité de lisbonne, un traité qui a donné une âme à l’europe, un traité qui a créé une europe citoyenne, un traité qui a remis les citoyens européens au cœur du projet européen. l’europe, c’est leur choix, c’est leur avenir, et l’europe c’est notre choix, que nous devons renouveler chaque jour dans l’action. vive l’europe! (applaudissements)
president of the european council. – mr president, it is a pleasure to join you in celebrating the 10th anniversary of the treaty of lisbon. this commemoration builds a bridge between europe’s past and europe’s future, and what better place to mark this historic event than the european parliament, a shining symbol of democracy? institutions matter. they give legitimacy and ensure continuity, as jean monnet rightly said. they matter because they expand our capacity to act. they are a reflection of what we stand for. let’s look back a moment. the treaty of rome confirmed the solidarity which binds europe, it linked our fates forever. the treaty of maastricht recalled the historic importance of the ending of the division of the european continent; it helped heal our wounds. the treaty of lisbon made our charter of fundamental rights legally binding. it anchored our union in a bedrock of shared values and set the stage for the europe we know today, founded on values and democratic institutions, respected in global affairs and committed to improving the lives of its citizens. we all feel a deep attachment to the fundamental freedoms of liberty, democracy and the rule of law. the lisbon treaty shines a light on these core beliefs. the lisbon treaty enforced our democracy by strengthening the parliament’s ability to steer a course for our union. the lisbon treaty also gave europe a more powerful voice in global affairs by synchronising europe’s foreign and security policy. today we can present a more unified face to the rest of the world and to paraphrase former swedish prime minister, karl bildt: i want europe to be a player, not a plaything. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, aujourd’hui, nous sommes impatients. il y a tellement de défis à relever: le climat, l’agenda du numérique, la paix, la sécurité, la défense, la capacité de parler ensemble d’une voix forte sur la scène internationale. plus que jamais, je partage avec vous la conviction que nous avons des raisons d’être confiants, des raisons d’être optimistes. un nouveau cycle institutionnel démarre, avec un parlement installé – et, je l’ai compris – mobilisé, tourné vers l’avenir, prêt à débattre, prêt à assumer sa pleine responsabilité. nous savons quels sont les objectifs communs, le programme de la commission européenne, en phase – largement – avec l’agenda stratégique de départ du conseil européen, cette perspective d’une conférence sur l’avenir de l’europe pour regarder de quelle manière on peut, ensemble, les manches retroussées, au coude à coude, faire avancer les choses et progresser en vue d’un nouvel élan européen. dix années après le traité de lisbonne, qui n’a pas encore révélé – je le crois aussi – tout son potentiel, tournons-nous vers les dix prochaines années avec confiance, optimisme et espoir, sans jamais oublier que nous devons porter ce rêve, cet idéal européen, avec du réalisme, avec du pragmatisme, mais surtout avec une grande détermination au service de tous les citoyens européens, quelle que soit leur origine, quelle que soit leur nationalité, quelle que soit leur conviction, fondée sur ces valeurs si fortes qui nous habitent et qui nous animent. ces valeurs qui font cette âme, ce supplément d’âme européen.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. (the sitting was suspended at 9.49 a.m.)
in writing. for 10 years we have hoped that the lisbon treaty could strengthen the rights of national and linguistic minorities across the union. today we have come to understand the disheartening reality that even the most outrageous violations of national minorities, such as the malina hedvig case, the re-nationalizations, or the use of minority languages and symbols, have become condonable. the european commission was not at liberty to invoke its lack of competence or the competence of the member states, unless there was a political interest in upholding the rights and principles. unfortunately, in many cases today, fundamental rights have become a tool of ideological struggle and a double standard. some issues of national sovereignty, which are not in line and are almost always led by christian-conservative members, can be objected to and held accountable. however, in the case of other member states with generally left-wing liberal governments, this rigidity disappears and the finding of a permissive lack of competence remains. the double standards applied by the european commission and the european parliament over the past 10 years have destroyed the union's coherence and its belief in a common europe. so there is still a lot to be done for the future of europe!
in writing. it is now ten years since the treaty of lisbon, which established the european union, entered into force. this anniversary is of particular importance for the indigenous national and linguistic minority communities in europe, as it is the first time that legislation at eu level has established that the european union is founded on the values of respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities. within a few years, this was followed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which clearly states that all discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of belonging to a national minority, is prohibited and that the union respects cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. however, after ten years, it has also become clear that the actual content of these provisions has yet to be developed. the implementation of the rights of indigenous national and linguistic minorities faces difficulties in many eu member states and these principles are not reflected in eu legislation. so it's very important that the next ten years don't go to waste. the consultation on the future of europe and the minority safe-pack initiative provide a good opportunity and a basis for the next anniversary to commemorate specific eu legislation and key content beyond the basic principles, in order to finally give indigenous national and linguistic minorities their rights.
in writing. as the eu celebrates the 10th anniversary of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, people can draw valuable lessons from the anti-people road to europe that has been built at their expense. the cfsp, pesco, the new intervention financing funds, have strengthened the militarisation of the eu and the aggressiveness of the european monopolies in their fierce confrontation with the other imperialist centres and powers. the treaty has armed the eu and governments with more brutal means of promoting anti-people policies: control of state budgets, the euro, memoranda of understanding, the crushing of wages and pensions. it has enlarged existing and created new mechanisms of repression (europolícia, eurogard, eurogospel, etc.), made the restriction of popular freedoms and rights more asphyxiating by strengthening anti-communism, persecutions against communist parties. it has turned the mediterranean into a watery grave for thousands of displaced refugees and migrants. the only rights that the so-called "charter" really guarantees are the "inviolable property of capitalists, the free movement of capital, the recognition of the employers' strike. the 'euro treaties' are nothing but shackles, with which the eu and governments, chain workers to the interests of capital. the people have the power to free themselves from the tyranny of the monopolies, by breaking free from the eu and nato, by taking power and the economy, by building the europe of socialism.
in writing. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon 10 years ago was undeniably a major step towards closer european cooperation among people. more democratic institutional functioning, stronger rights for eu citizens, a further move of the eu from mere economic cooperation towards european cooperation that puts citizens first. citizens belonging to indigenous national minorities looked with confidence at developments 10 years ago. they hoped that it would also bring positive changes in the protection of minorities in the eu. the lisbon treaty has made the concept of a national minority part of eu primary law. article 2 of the treaty lists respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities among the values of the union, and article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights prohibits discrimination on grounds of language and national minority. since then, apart from the solemn declaration, not much has happened. the eu's enforcement of minority rights continues to face obstacles. so, in terms of minority rights, we've lost another decade. many questions remain unanswered in the field. the lisbon treaty will only deliver on its promises if the union takes more positive and concrete steps to protect minorities. our task is nothing less than to listen to the citizens, to fulfil the 10-year promise and to establish as soon as possible appropriate eu standards for the protection of indigenous minorities.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 12-13 december (2019/2723 ((rsp)).
president of the european council. mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is both a particular honour and a privilege for me to have the opportunity, for the first time since this new institutional cycle, to address this european parliament. i would like to express my wish and hope that quality interinstitutional cooperation will be developed in the service of the european project. i shall try to give you some information in connection with the european council last week. the first point is about ambition. the ambition, as it were, to conclude a peace treaty with nature. climate change is a threat that is before us and, just hours after the european commission announced the green deal for europe - this ambitious action plan to win the battle against the climate threat - i am pleased to announce that the european council has unanimously reached an agreement on the 2050 climate neutrality target, providing a longer deadline for a european country to implement this agreement, which was unanimously supported. it's a giant step in the right direction, and it allows for progress on what i've called, along with other projects, the men and women on the moon project. i think we do need to set a course and an ambition. it is done through this commitment. i would also like to emphasize that the european council has rightly, in my view, stated that this climate transition must be equitable, socially balanced and requires financial means. we have noted the european investment bank's announcement of very high ambition in terms of climate finance. we have also noted the ambition to set up a just transition fund to take into account a form of solidarity which must include the idea that not all european countries have the same starting point, that there are national situations which are not exactly the same. we also noted the importance, in our view, of having a strategy that respects the choice of individual member states in their energy mix. these are some of the elements linked to the first key topic for the next few years, the battle against climate change: turning this challenge, this serious challenge, into an opportunity for more growth, more innovation, and to make europe a leading continent for the green economy. it is a very strong ambition, and i mean all the mobilization from the european council to try to make our political contribution to this objective. the next european budget will be very complex: it is a complex and a difficult issue because of the brexit gap. we know that it means that some countries will have to pay more, and other countries will have to receive more. it means that we have to try to develop a process of negotiation between the leaders, with respect for the role of the european parliament, based on the treaties. this debate, the next european budget, is not only a question of gdp percentage, it is not only a question of national contribution and of course it is very visible at the national level but it is also an important question regarding the content, the priorities and the substance: what do we want to do in the next years? what is the added value we would like to develop in the next years? that is why another important point will be the right balance we have to find between the classic european policies like agriculture and cohesion on the one hand, and on the other hand the new policies and the new challenges we have to face like migration, climate change and innovation. i think it will be very important to work with european leaders and also to work with parliament with the support of the commission, in order to try to take steps in the next weeks, in the next months. another important point with the annual budget will be the discussion regarding conditionality. for different countries, conditionality means different things: for some countries we speak about the rule of law; for other countries we speak about migration or about social or fiscal dumping. another important topic regarding the european budget will be flexibility. i understand that many countries are in favour of more flexibility, and we will see whether it is possible to try to make a compromise on these different issues. another important point, in connection with the european budget, is of course the question of own resources. i also noted the strong signals sent by the european parliament, including on this subject, with regard to the budget. this means that when we talk about this important issue, we have to look at: for some, it is about considering the expansion of the ets; for others, it is about considering the expansion of the ets; for others, it is about considering the expansion of the ets; for others, it is about considering the expansion of the ets. for others, it is a question of leading this debate in the context of digital taxation. for others, it is about looking at how contributions to plastic waste can be implemented, and other suggestions, as you know, are also mentioned. in terms of procedure, what are the next steps? clearly, this council has given me the mandate, as president of the european council, which has asked the european commission to pursue intensively, actively, the bilateral consultations with the member states, to move towards a compromise and to assess at what point we think we are approaching a political landing zone, where we can try to move towards a final decision from the european council. i also wished, in close cooperation with the president of the european parliament, to have the opportunity to have what i would call preventive exchanges with the european parliament. a first meeting took place last night with delegations from the european parliament to take account of the institutional role of the european parliament, based on the treaties, in this decision-making process and to express my respect and my desire to develop this good cooperation with the european parliament. we also briefly touched upon the question of brexit, briefly because during these two days of the european council we have taken note of the results of this electoral process and we have, with great serenity, with great calm, expressed the fact that the european council is ready, ready to work with the other institutions, under the leadership of michel barnier, to whom we have reiterated our confidence in continuing the negotiating work. unity and transparency will be, as was the case yesterday, important keys to making this negotiation a success. we, the commission and the european council, will be following the process very closely, day after day, week after week. the requirement of a level playing field will certainly be an important compass in the next stages of the negotiation. we also know that there are deadlines and possible procedures to consider around the summer if extensions were to be desired. but it is not our intention today to anticipate this debate. let us begin by, as soon as possible, i hope, getting the british parliament and the european parliament to vote on the withdrawal agreement, and then we shall see, step by step, how this negotiation is conducted in the best interests of europe, and also by expressing the wish to maintain close, very close cooperation with britain on various economic and trade issues, but also on security and defence matters, for example. we also had the opportunity to discuss the issue of this conference on the future of europe. this was mentioned by several speakers at this commemorative session on the lisbon treaty, and the european council takes this follow-up very seriously. and we can well feel the aspiration of the people, of the citizens, to be more involved, to not consider that it is a matter of voting once every four years or once every five years in the individual countries or at european level, and then to be a passive spectator of the decisions that affect them. we hear this call for the mobilization of civil society, for the mobilization of citizens, for the mobilization of national parliaments, probably also. i must say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that we wanted the european council to be a loyal actor, willing to cooperate with the european parliament in this process. but naturally, also by stating that it is essential for the european council, as you well understand, to retain its capacity for action in the short and medium term on the strategic agenda. we know the strategic agenda for the short and medium term and we want to maintain this capacity to move forward on these extremely important subjects, which must mobilize us. we also had the opportunity to discuss international relations, with particular attention to the situation in turkey. we have not had a very wide debate on turkey in this council. we will have the opportunity next year to open more strategic debates on the geopolitical and international level. finally, a word on agenda 2020. i also wanted to present to my colleagues in the european council a proposal for a working method, a proposal for a strategic agenda for next year, to identify the topics we will be debating next year, which correspond to the priorities of the european council. as you have understood, climate will remain a central point on the political agenda of the european council, partly in the context of the process of implementing the european green deal. the digital agenda will also be an important theme. there should be a summit in the spring devoted mainly to this because, a few years after tallinn and the broad implementation of the guidelines adopted there, it is important to say clearly that we also have an ambition: big data, artificial intelligence, the deployment of 5g. on all these issues, how can we be a useful actor, a positive actor too, starting from the european council? the migration issue will of course also be a topic that will be on the table again next year at the european council and of course also the security and defence issues, which are extremely important. i believe that they are linked to europe's ability to speak with a strong voice at international level, to promote our values, our interests and to ensure that this capacity to be a positive actor looking to the future, at a time when the world is changing a lot, at a time when the benchmarks are being shaken. this capacity for europe to be a factor and an actor of stability, peace and prosperity, to promote cooperation and multilateralism, is extremely important. in particular, we will have the opportunity to prepare strategically for several international meetings at the european council. we will have next year different important summits with other countries in the world and other regions in the world. first of all, africa: africa is, in my opinion, a very important challenge for the future of europe. i hope it will be possible in the next weeks and months with the european commission to develop a good strategic partnership, a good preparation in order to deliver concrete results. another important summit we will have next year is china. we talked about climate change: this is one of the important topics we have to discuss with this important country, and in this regard we will also have the opportunity to work very hard in order to try to be efficient and to try to deliver more in order to try to get more results and to promote also our common interests regarding our strategic relationships with other actors in the world. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that we are at the beginning of a new institutional cycle. i firmly believe that this institutional cycle which is opening up is an exceptional window of opportunity for the future of the european project. we are just over 60 years after the treaty of rome, after the founding fathers, after the mobilisation of visionary europeans: helmut kohl, françois mitterrand, who dreamed of free movement and the schengen area, who dreamed of the common currency, the euro, who fought to advance mutual understanding, prosperity and stability. our political generation - the one you represent in this parliament, the one who is present at the departure of the commission or the european council - our political generation has an appointment with the future of the european project. there are three words that i like to say as president of the european council. ambition: ambition for the citizens of europe, ambition to carry this optimistic vision, this vision for the future. trust: working every day to strengthen trust between institutions, trust within institutions, but above all trust between the peoples of europe, trust in our project, trust in our european values. and then common sense, pragmatism, realism: keeping both feet firmly anchored in reality, as close as possible to the expectations of our fellow citizens who have big dreams, who have great hopes. this assembly, your assembly, is the vibrant heart of the european project, because you represent, through your direct election, the aspirations, the dreams, the hopes, sometimes even the anger of the peoples of europe. i extend my hand to you and wish that together we can play a useful role in the future of the european project. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. – mr president, honourable of members, let me first congratulate president charles michel on chairing his first council. it was quite an impressive start of the mandate. indeed one week ago, we discussed in the parliament the european green deal. the day after i brought the same proposal to the european council and the council has endorsed the goal to make our continent climate neutral by 2050. we have explained to the leaders the core of our proposal and that is to transform our continent’s growth strategy. for too long, global growth has been based on predatory ideas. humanity took away resources from the environment, and in exchange produced waste and pollution. this has to change and i am convinced this can change. with the european green deal we aim at a growth model that gives back to our planet more than it takes away from it. in fact, i am convinced that leadership on environmental protection and a sound, a strong industrial base are just two sides of the same coin. to support this kind of clean innovation, of course we will need a far—reaching investment in education, a far—reaching investment in skills development. but this investment in education and skills development has always been at the core of our european social market economy. so i’m convinced that this principle, which i call competitive sustainability, must be our principal for the future of the social market economy in europe. honourable members, all member states have different starting points, and special problems to tackle, and i want to give you some examples. poland indeed, as president michel said, will have to transform large coal mining regions, actually as does eastern germany. so at the european council, poland has asked for more time to have a closer look at our proposal for the just transition fund. i’m very keen on working with the member states on this, and we have already started discussing how to support people and regions and companies that indeed have a longer way to come. other member states have different issues. portugal for example. portugal is one of the countries most affected by climate change: loss of coast; hurricanes; floods; horrible forest fires have taken already a very high toll. last year 60 people lost their lives in the fires. portugal started its clean transition already in 2005 and has invested significantly since then. it will close its last coal mine already in 2023. it already has a surplus in renewable energies, and together with the dutch government, portugal is now working on green hydrogen energy. so the question for portugal is how to transform and transport its renewable energy through spain, through france, to the other countries that need this renewable energy. from the portuguese perspective, the european green deal is about energy infrastructure, is about inter-connectivities and is about an adaptation to climate change. the third example is in sweden. steel companies are working on carbon free steel production. it sounds surreal, but it’s carbon free steel production and they are confident they can get there in a matter of a few years. but for that they need the reassurance that they will not face unfair competition from abroad. they want steel production to be sustainable for the environment and they want to remain competitive on the global steel market, and this is the essence of competitive sustainability. indeed, many member states during the council were asking for the carbon border mechanism. we’re working on it, so that it can protect our businesses, it can protect the environment and respect wto rules. honourable members, we started our work on the european green deal five months ago in this very same hemicycle. in the coming weeks and months, we will flesh out our plan. the council has endorsed the european green deal. your resolution will give it an even greater momentum. the task ahead of us is tremendous, but if we are together as three institutions, we will win that battle. that is a difficult one, a huge task and we have seen last week how much power is behind us if the three institutions work together. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, nos ambitions européennes ont besoin de ressources adéquates pour se réaliser. c’est là le cœur de notre discussion pour le prochain budget européen. nous convenons tous que la proposition actuelle est encore loin de cet objectif. la commission soutiendra pleinement le président du conseil européen, charles michel, dans ses efforts pour dégager un consensus équilibré, équitable et ambitieux. je voudrais remercier le président du parlement européen, david sassoli, d’avoir défendu d’une voix forte, très forte, un budget approprié pendant la réunion du conseil. merci beaucoup, david, pour cela. il est nécessaire d’être cohérent avec nos ambitions et nos engagements. il y a l’agenda stratégique du conseil, il y a les orientations politiques de la commission. les deux propositions sont fortement congruentes, mais si nous voulons des résultats à la hauteur de nos ambitions, il nous faut des ressources suffisantes. et si le budget est trop limité, il n’y a qu’une seule solution: il faut discuter de nouvelles ressources propres pour l’union européenne. merci, charles michel, d’avoir mentionné maintenant l’ets, l’emissions trading system. cet ets grandit, c’est à dire que cela pourrait être une source de nouvelles ressources propres de l’union européenne. meine damen und herren abgeordnete! auf dem eurozonen-gipfel haben wir über die internationale rolle des euro gesprochen. der euro ist ein wesentliches instrument der souveränität europas in der welt, aber wir verkaufen unseren euro unter wert. es liegt an uns – wir haben es in unserer hand. wir wollen die gemeinsame währung. wir profitieren vom gemeinsamen markt. der euro ist der stärkste ausdruck der zusammenarbeit und der gemeinschaft, den wir haben. aber wir müssen auch bereit sein, die strukturellen voraussetzungen für eine gemeinsame währung zu schaffen, das heißt, aufeinander zuzugehen bei den themen, die wir reformieren wollen. die kapitalmarktunion muss vollendet werden. unternehmen – und vor allen dingen kleine und mittlere unternehmen – müssen endlich überall auf dem gemeinsamen markt zugang zu kapital haben und damit von der grenzüberschreitenden wertschöpfungskette auch tatsächlich profitieren. dafür haben wir ja den gemeinsamen markt. aber auch die bankenunion muss vollendet werden. es muss doch möglich sein, dass wir einen überlappenden prozess haben, dass einerseits die nationalen bankenrisiken reduziert werden und andererseits eine gemeinsame einlagensicherung aufgebaut wird. wir brauchen doch nicht auf die nächste krise zu warten, um dann unter druck endlich die resilienz unserer währungs- und wirtschaftsunion zu festigen. auf dem eurozonen-gipfel war sehr erfreulich: die entwicklung des sogenannten bicc (budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness) – long one – macht erhebliche fortschritte. die hauptmerkmale sind vereinbart, die politische einigung wird jetzt in rechtsvorschriften umgesetzt. das instrument wird die arbeitsweise der euro-gruppe grundlegend verändern. es wird die konvergenz über strukturelle reformen verbessern. natürlich muss es noch mit ausreichenden finanzmitteln unterlegt werden. was jetzt noch fehlt, ist das stabilisierungsinstrument, und dazu arbeitet die kommission an sure, die abkürzung für skills upgrading reinsurance element, das ist ein stabilisierungsmechanismus, der vor allen dingen bei asymmetrischen, externen schocks die stabilisierung herstellen soll, das heißt: facharbeit schützen, unternehmen in der krise schützen – und ich meine, wenn ich von krise spreche, eine äußere krise, die kommt – und gleichzeitig die weiterbildung stärken. finally, honourable members, one word on brexit. with the clear victory of the conservatives and boris johnson, our assumption is now indeed that the withdrawal agreement will be ratified by the end of january. and by saying that, if i look around in this hemicycle and i look at our very brave ‘remain’ meps,(mixed reactions)i can only say, i’m sorry. we will miss you. we will miss you. thank you for your courage. thank you for having been at our side (applause)we’ll never miss those who scream and yell. (applause and shouting)and now, thank god, without you we are constructing our future partnership with the uk. our new relationship should be as close as possible for the sake of our businesses, for the sake of our students, and of so many europeans who stretch their lives across the channel. this relationship will be clearly different from today’s. the uk will be a third country. council has tasked that to the commission, to lead the next phase of negotiation, and i want to pay tribute to michel barnier, who has earned everyone’s trust through the years. thank you very much michel for you dedication. (applause)the timetable ahead of us is extremely challenging, it will end by december 2020, it leaves us very little time. in case we cannot conclude an agreement by the end of 2020, we will face again a cliff-edge situation and this would clearly harm our interest, but it will impact more the uk than us, as the european union will continue benefiting from its single market, its customs union, and the 1 700 international agreements we signed with our partners, but it is clearly not in our interest. we will organise these negotiations to make the most out of the short period. on 1 february we will be ready to propose a mandate for the negotiations. the united kingdom indeed will become a third country. but at the very end – i hope – for the sake of the european people and the sake of the british people, that we will have an unprecedented partnership. this is not the end of something, it is the beginning of new relations between neighbours, and i want us to become good neighbours with our friends in the united kingdom. long live europe. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. welcome to the european parliament! for the first time in my new role here in this house. we appreciate your commitment as a european and as a bridge-builder. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so welcome and good luck! i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which i hope will be a useful one. if i look at the outcome of the european council last week, the big success of 2050 getting out of the greenhouse gas is a big success, thank you for that. but in many other areas we have no results. for example, when it comes to paying the costs of climate change, we are in the medium-term financial perspective. the european council has not held more discussions on this subject? only the finnish presidency presented the results. the question was not even discussed. the european council is not even discussing the question of the mff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i would like to say to you, particularly in regard to the mff, that the proposal of the finnish presidency is a pure provocation for us in the european parliament. it is not a matter of dispute what the finnish presidency has said on the matter. it does not reflect the necessary investment we need in the future of europe. we also hope that we can finally move away from mere percentage discussions and get to the issues, the tasks, the content. that we talk about issues and not just numbers, and most importantly, we need to get away from the net and gross taxpayer debate. if my home country, germany, gets proper external border protection in greece and italy financed by the european union, then that is a benefit for germany, but not a net/gross taxpayer discount. we must move away from this perspective towards a european mindset. i would also ask you to have the courage to debate in the council in the future. we have had questions over and over again in the last five years which have moved us on the subject of the rule of law here in the european parliament. in poland, in hungary, in the czech republic, in romania under the previous government, people took to the streets, worried about the future, and these debates, which have turned people around, were unfortunately hardly discussed in the european council. this week we had the debate here in the european parliament on malta. a journalist was murdered for doing her job, for investigating corruption in the state elite. and the prime minister resigned because he took responsibility. so we have obvious contacts between politics and organized crime, and a journalist was murdered because of it. but these questions are not relevant in the european council. they are not discussed, although they are the most fundamental questions for the european model of life. and that is why i ask you: have the courage to put these issues on the agenda hungary, the czech republic, poland. the heads of state and government of the european union must have the courage to discuss these issues among themselves. i would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we in the epp welcome the clarity of brexit now. we now have clear negotiating partners, a strong mandate for boris johnson. we can give our blessing in the european parliament. i would also like to thank guy verhofstadt for his work as parliament's brexit negotiator. we can now conclude as a parliament because our objectives in this treaty have been implemented and fulfilled, and in the next steps to be taken it must be made clear that the further partnership is designed for friendship, for mutual cooperation. we all want to be close to each other, especially the 50%, about half of the british people who want the partnership, are strong in our minds. but one thing must be clear: a country outside the european union cannot have the same standards as someone in the european union. and it must also be clear that anyone who wants access to the market must accept our market rules. that applies to the city of london, that applies to agricultural products. everyone must respect our standards, and they will be our benchmarks for assessing future outcomes in the discussions in which the european parliament plays a central role. the brexit is a historic mistake, but we want to implement it now in partnership and perhaps also develop it into a model for how we deal with our neighbourhood in the future. the european council, which is taking place in brussels, is a very important meeting for the european union. the cancellation of the opening of negotiations with north macedonia and albania has caused a great deal of frustration and disappointment in the region, and that is why we urgently request that when you come back to the european parliament the next time, after the next european council, we, the epp group, ask that the european council then give the green light for enlargement talks with these two countries. we must extend a hand to the western balkans, otherwise there will be more instability.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr michel, on behalf of the socialist group i welcome you to this parliament and wish you every success, hoping that your presidency will have a strong leadership to face the challenges and the challenges of europe. that's what we need: strong leadership and courageous decision-making. we have a responsibility to achieve the commitments we have made, including any and all discussions that have taken place in the council. if we aspire to build a greener, more social and more inclusive europe, we need financial resources that match our ambition. and we also need a strong budgetary framework to deal with a possible economic crisis and to guarantee the security of our citizens within the framework of a common foreign and security policy. we welcome the fact that the european council has agreed in its latest conclusions to the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, despite the resistance of some member states. we must address this issue when we debate the future of the union: the need to change the unanimity rule, because only in this way will we be able to meet the challenges ahead. although the council's conclusions are in the right direction, the multiannual financial framework was the elephant in the room. the cuts proposed by the council are totally unacceptable. our group will prevent this proposal from becoming the budgetary framework the union needs for the next period. the current council proposal is totally unrealistic: less budget for cohesion, less budget for agriculture, less budget for connecting europe and border management, to name just a few of the items mentioned. the proposal also contains insufficient funding for research policy and for meeting climate objectives. and, what is more serious, it does not even mention the just transition fund, the european green deal and the child guarantee. i have said it before and i say it again now: it is impossible to do more with less. if we want to ensure that no one is left behind on this path we are taking, the council must commit itself to a strong budgetary framework. yes, the union budget will play a key role, but it will also have to be supplemented by additional own resources and more investment at national level. we therefore call for the inclusion of the golden rule in the stability and growth pact to exclude sustainable investments from european tax rules. this reform would boost green investment and quality job creation. that is why we need the commitment to include the social pillar in the european semester to be more than a symbolic exercise. we are committed to the incorporation of social conditionality to link the structural funds with the fulfilment of the social pillar. mr michel, if we are to succeed in our mandate, we need empathy and pedagogy. only by an exercise in empathy between member states and in pedagogy to our citizens can we understand the great benefits of having a stronger union. finally, with regard to brexit, i would like to use this speech today to convey a clear message of appreciation and thanks to the british members of parliament who have been writing the history of our european democracy for 46 years. we were talking about the tenth anniversary of the treaty of lisbon. our colleague richard corbett was the rapporteur for this parliament on the report on the treaty of lisbon. you deserve our respect, you deserve our recognition, you deserve our personal affection as well. let us be very clear: there is something that no one can take away from you, and that is the pride of having been part of the history of the european project.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, dear charles, first of all, welcome to the european parliament and congratulations on your taking up your duties. we are putting great faith and hope in the beginning of this new term of office, because we need a real partner in the european council, who can bring european themes and topics to bear on the way forward. the message from the citizens in the last european elections was very clear. now it is up to us to implement it and i am sure that you, with your vision, your negotiating skills, will bring that new blood, that new wind that we need to be able to move forward together. this first european council, which you chaired, brought good news, with the commitment to the climate by 2050. but we feel that in the council there are member states which are still holding their ground and that there is not yet enough determination to enable us to move forward and implement this objective. it is very good to have goals, it is already a step forward, but now we must be able to implement them. and here the commission has an important task, that of coming up with proposals. we need to give the member states the courage to take this responsibility, to take this step forward, and it is clear that we must turn this climate project into an opportunity and that member states - even if they start from different starting points - must see that this fight against climate change is a real opportunity. in order to make this very clear, this needs to be reflected in the budgetary perspectives of the multiannual financial framework, which must be a real instrument to be able to deliver on the climate project, but also on the digital transformation and on all the other objectives. there is still work to be done on how the mff can be a genuine european instrument, and not just a negotiation between member states on 'how much some gain and how much others lose'. in my view, this is the only way to get a decision on the budgetary perspective: to understand that this multiannual financial framework is in fact an instrument for implementing our political ambitions, and not just a place for negotiations and bargaining between winners and losers. on the budgetary perspective, in our view, it would be a mistake to see things from the point of view of the distribution of available resources between the old, traditional policies and the new priorities, since we need to modernise the traditional policies, namely the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, so that these two policies can contribute to the achievement of the ambitions we have at present, rather than weaken them. this is the direction parliament wants to take. we also strongly support a strong european budget, not only through the contribution of the member states but also based on own resources, on which we must make very clear progress, because otherwise we will never finish debating the european budget, which is entirely dependent on the member states negotiating between winners and losers. this is why own resources are a first step towards a true european budget, built around european perspectives and objectives. one last word on brexit. we regret the results of the election in the uk but now, at least, we have more clarity about what will happen, and parliament will take its responsibility. but i would also like to use this opportunity to thank our colleagues for their belief in this european project. they conveyed a very clear message to the british people that this brexit is not the end of our story together: we will remain partners, and we will remain confident that all the british who really believe in a european project will stay together with us, and we will find the right way to collaborate and work together. thank you to michel barnier and thank you to guy verhofstadt for what they did for these negotiations. we still have things to do in order to have a strong agreement with our neighbours.
could we stop the dog-whistles, please, colleagues. and being irish, i understand what you mean by ‘freedom’.
romania rejects the purely mathematical criterion used by the finnish presidency for constructing the budget of the european union. we do not consider the draft budget to be an expression of a vision. if we operate with a logic of cuts without taking into account the needs of all member states, we deepen the economic gap between east and west, and so we empty the concept of cohesion. the proposals on inter-fund transfers do away with any flexibility and increase red tape. therefore, the current proposed reductions for cohesion and the common agricultural policy cannot be supported by the eastern european states. romania does not support a two-speed europe. europe has one speed. we support the idea of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, but we are talking about an ambitious but complicated target that requires measures adapted to national conditions, with still major differences between the lives of european citizens, depending on the state.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, protected by the european union's desire to have a nuclear deal at any cost, the regime in tehran has been attacking its own people with all its might. choking from the enormous military spending, corruption, and us sanctions, the regime of supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has turned to brutal repression of the protests that have erupted across the country. iranian citizens in 31 provinces and 140 cities were simply crushed by the disproportionate force with which the regime acted against them. according to the national council of resistance of iran, the regime has defeated the citizens' movement for freedom with unprecedented violence. about 1,500 dead, 504 confirmed so far; about 10,000 people arrested; about 4,000 wounded. the regime is now seeking out and arresting demonstrators, especially local leaders. we, the european union, have an obligation to protest and to act. we have to acknowledge and acknowledge that the european union, in relation to iran, has become a prisoner of the nuclear treaty. that is the truth, but also why we do not see that in its ambitions to be a regional power, iran is involved ... (president withdrew the speaker's speech).
mr president, i wish to address the high commissioner as a member of the subcommittee on human rights of our parliament. mr. high commissioner, minors have died, young people have died, students, teachers, iranian citizens who had no other way to express their discontent than by protest. the european union, our diplomacy can no longer approach a path of caution. we need firm and determined action to condemn what is happening now in iran. we cannot, for the sake of the nuclear deal, tolerate what is happening there. iran is a hotbed of instability for the entire region. if you look at syria, if you look at yemen, if you look at lebanon, everywhere you look you see iran. we need decisive action, that is what we want from our commission.
madam president, this revision to the law will allow the russian government to name independent journalists and bloggers who receive funding from any foreign source as foreign agents: a soviet—era term for political opponents. targeted individuals will have to label their work and register with the authorities or face fines or even imprisonment of up to two years. such a law can be used as a tool to silence critics of the government, further undermining a free and independent media and damaging freedom of expression. i call on the russian government to reverse its decision, bring its legislation into line with its obligations to international human rights law, and end its continued efforts to restrict civil-society groups and independent journalism. it is regrettable that we see this approach from russia even alongside its re—admittance to the council of europe.
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, colleagues, the greatest threat to the kremlin is democracy itself. now it's the turn of the ngos and the lagging, independent media, which is often the only reliable source of information. the desire to silence and condemn the public against those who do not let hope die, fight for human rights, environmental protection in russia, try to defend the fundamental values of democracy. the foreign agents act shows that the kremlin is afraid. putin and his propaganda machine are not working as well as they should. this threatens the very existence of the regime. working on two fronts - both internally and externally - by interfering in elections, referendums, in other countries is becoming increasingly difficult. so in defending the rights of ordinary russians, we are first defending democracy and its survival.
madam president, i remember very well what the word foreign agent meant in the former socialist czechoslovakia and in the whole of the central and eastern european bloc under the soviet dictatorship. it was simply a label for dissidents, for those who fought for human rights, for freedom and democracy in countries like czechoslovakia, poland, hungary and other countries. today, the russian ministry of justice uses the term to target undesirable organizations and individuals, such as journalists. the czech organization people in need was also included in the list of such organizations. the organisation is the largest non-profit organisation in the czech republic and central europe, providing human rights, development aid and education in more than thirty countries worldwide. in russia, the organization people in need has supported independent journalists, civil society and has also provided assistance to political dissidents. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable that a respected independent organization from a member state of the european union is considered an undesirable foreign agent in the russian federation. therefore, i fully support the proposal to repeal this law in russia.
madam president, radio free europe, which played a decisive role in the revolutions in eastern europe and which receives european funding on certain projects, is on putin's blacklist, along with other media structures that receive western funding. the foreign agents law was passed in 2012 and required all externally funded ngos to be registered. this law has been strongly criticised by the european parliament. last month, putin signed a law that extends its application to individuals, specifically journalists or leaders of the political opposition, that is, those who challenge us. freedom of the press is non-negotiable. as i said in july, russia must urgently repeal laws that flagrantly violate freedom of expression and that contravene international standards. there can be no normalization of relations with russia as long as human rights do not exist for putin. the eu's christmas present to putin should be magnitsky's law.
madam president, for anyone who had doubts that putin is a dictator, the answer is in this law. who is this law dedicated to and why was it passed now? the answer is simple: those who promote in the russian federation the same set of values on which our union is built. who is putin afraid of in the russian federation when he talks about democracy, freedom of speech, fundamental rights? what is happening now should concern us and is a wake-up call for us europeans, because the teachers are targeted, the journalists are targeted, the opinion leaders in the russian federation who do not think that putin is a threat to their state. mr. high representative, we ask you to act to defend the millions of russian citizens who do not think like putin and look with hope to the european union.
madam president, this bill clearly shows that the russian regime is becoming more authoritarian. we in the czech republic know this, because unfortunately a large part of the czech political representation, headed by president zeman, supports the putin regime. it must be said that we must unequivocally protest against this, and i am very pleased that this resolution follows the line of the previous european parliament in recognising how undemocratic the russian regime is and condemning its suppression of human rights in russia itself, its foreign annexation and also its attempts to interfere in the domestic political situations of other countries and influence, for example, the course of electoral campaigns. russia must be our partner, but our partner is not the putin regime. this, mr president, is the clear voice of the european commission. i ask you very much to stick to the line taken by the previous european commission, not to succumb to the russian propaganda of the putin regime and to be consistent in this.
madam president, it has already been said here: the former soviet union was oppressive and cruel. those of us who have lived in the eastern states and felt the boots of the ussr on our lives understand perhaps more than other colleagues. that is why i condemn the new law that mr putin recently passed and i agree and i will vote for this resolution. restricting the freedom of the press doesn't help us either, we'll never know the truth because there are people out there, and there are citizens out there who may want freedom, who may want to move freely and bear the consequences of this law. that's why i'm definitely going to vote for the bill, and we have to be careful. it is our neighbour, the european union, but we must set the conditions for respecting democratic rules. it's the only way we can be good partners.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the european union has a long-standing and clear position on russia’s ‘foreign agent’ law, and the newest amendment to this law, signed by president putin on 2 december, widens the scope of the ‘foreign agent media’ law to include individuals. many of you have expressed your strong concern about that – and, i think, rightly, because this has the potential to affect independent journalists and bloggers and is another step towards restricting media freedom and freedom of expression in russia. since 2012, when the ‘foreign agent’ law was first introduced in russia, enabling non-government organisations to be branded as foreign agents, about 150 ngos had this label imposed on them. they have been subject to fines, inspections and stigmatisation. the impact has been to restrict fundamental freedom in russia, consume the scarce resources of ngos, and inhibit independent civil society in the country. in 2017, foreign agent legislation expanded, so that any media organisation receiving foreign funding, either directly or indirectly, could be labelled as a foreign agent. it has again reduced the space for free and independent media, as well as independent voices. ‘foreign agent’ legislation goes against russia’s human rights obligations and commitments. the eu has repeatedly condemned this legislation, most recently in a statement by the external action service – the spokesperson on 23 november: the extension of the law to include private individuals is yet another move to curb freedom of expression. we will continue to call on the russian authorities to respect their international obligations on freedom of association and freedom of speech. it is essential that russian citizens are able to exercise freedom of association, including the right to join and participate in non-governmental organisations which promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union will continue to support russian human rights activists and civil society as we do worldwide, because this is a fundamental principle of the european union. our support is important, be it public statements, attending trials, supporting meetings with them. we will keep monitoring developments in russia, calling the authorities to account when they do not respect fundamental rights enshrined in their constitution. we will insist on the need to respect the decisions of the european court of human rights and, in general, the council of europe conventions. that’s democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, today the court of justice of the european union delivered a judgment in case c-502/19 junqueras vies. it is a very important judgment which directly affects the composition of this institution. we didn't waste time or keep you waiting for the sake of keeping you waiting. the court held that the assumption of parliamentary mandate is the result of the votes of the electors. the court held that a person whose election to the european parliament has been officially proclaimed by the competent authority of the member state in which that election took place acquires from that moment the status of member of parliament and enjoys the protection of parliamentary immunity under article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union from the moment of the official proclamation of the results. consequently, the membership of parliament must be regarded as having been acquired by the mere fact and from the time of the aforementioned proclamation. the court also held that immunity entailed that the precautionary detention measure to which the elected member was subjected should be lifted in order to allow the member to go to the european parliament and complete the necessary formalities. that being said, if the competent national authority considers that the measure in question should be maintained after the person concerned has become a member of the european parliament, it must, in accordance with article 9 of the said protocol, apply to the european parliament as soon as possible for the waiver of that immunity. i call on the competent spanish authorities to comply with the judgment and have instructed parliament's services to assess as soon as possible the application of the judgment's effects on the composition of our parliament. i would inform you that i will not accept any references to the rules of procedure on this subject.
colleagues, after this very clear statement by the president, there is no need for further points of order or the like on the matter. i would like to welcome the delegation of the ukrainian parliamentarians who participated in the tenth meeting of the eu-ukraine parliamentary association committee yesterday and today. (applause) this was an important meeting, being the first one held since the start of the new legislative period, both for our european parliament and for the verkhovna rada of ukraine, and therefore a good moment to look with ambition and vision at what we strive to achieve together. so, dear ukrainian friends, the multi-faceted and very intense cooperation between our parliaments is the symbol of our commitment towards the european path chosen by ukraine and the concretisation of our support for your country. let me thank you for coming this week to parliament and wish you all the very best for your work as parliamentarians at the forefront of the strengthening and deepening of your democracy. (applause)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president. i had the privilege of watching a lot of the romanian revolution in bucharest. i was 18 years old. it was my gap year. i saw most of it through the windows of a pub called hanul lui manuc, because it was the only place in that city where you could get beer. it was a pub that brewed its own beer. the only things you could buy in bucharest at that time were italian vermouth and plum jam. it is an extraordinary thing to see the strides made by romania since then. but it’s worth remembering that the revolution, not only in romania but in the other soviet satellites, was primarily about the end of foreign occupation and the restoration of national sovereignty. yes, of course, it was about democracy, the rule of law and personal freedom, but the peoples of those countries understood that those things are meaningless unless you have mechanisms to hold your rulers to account, and that is why, as charles de gaulle observed many years ago, national sovereignty and democracy are the same thing.
madam chairman, like colleague hannan, i watched this revolution on television. it was just a few kilometers from my home in sofia, and for the first time we saw the events that were happening on the streets of bucharest, timisoara, and other romanian cities. at that time, romania was closed, as was bulgaria, and it was under a communist dictatorship. a dictatorship that tried to destroy the memory of our peoples, a dictatorship that tried to destroy our national self-consciousness, to invent some other man - a citizen of the soviet bloc, a soviet citizen. fortunately, that didn't happen, fortunately, that dictatorship collapsed. the fall of the dictatorship in romania, the events we watched on television, the battles on the outskirts of bucharest, inspired many bulgarians to change, which also succeeded in overthrowing the communist dictatorship in bulgaria and enabled our peoples to take their destiny in hand again. congratulations to all who participated in these events and warm congratulations to the brotherly romanian people!
madam president, it is very good that we have commemorated the 30th anniversary of the fall of the communist regime in romania. it was the last soviet satellite, the last part of the former communist empire where communist power fell. as the resolution rightly points out, it was also, unfortunately, the most violent and bloody episode of the fall of the communist regime in central and eastern europe. in my native country, the former czechoslovakia, we were fortunate to have had the velvet revolution, not a single life was lost, and the transfer of power and the fall of the communist regime were relatively peaceful. we, of course, were shocked to see on television what was happening in romania, including the execution of the former dictator ceaușescu. at that time there was already a provisional government in czechoslovakia, whose task was to lead the country to its first free elections, and the communist regime was in the past, but we believe that as part of this process it is necessary to keep reminding ourselves of these things, and that is why it is very good that we have adopted this resolution today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for voting for this resolution. thank you very much to all of you who supported this resolution. this is a great moment for my people. it is an important moment in our history and i am very pleased that we have come to give the necessary importance here, in this temple of european democracy, to the major events of 1989 that changed the course of our continent. thank you very much and we must show proper appreciation for all the people who gave their lives in the romanian revolution of 1989 to be consistent with the message of support for the struggle for human rights that the european parliament conveys. thank you again.
