according to the text, i should address you as gender neutral. but in my native tongue, i have no choice: i have to decide whether to address you as a woman or a man. and neither the members of this parliament, nor its leadership, nor its interpreters have the right to change by political mandate a language that has evolved naturally for hundreds, perhaps thousands of years. such demands for the introduction of some absurd measures compromise the effort to achieve real equality of opportunity in the european parliament. and not just the european parliament. worse, they also overshadow meaningful initiatives, such as improving the status of women in the workplace, zero tolerance for sexual harassment, or valuing the work of women and men regardless of gender. my 14 years of experience in european politics clearly show that we repeat this theme every election season, and at the same time show that the use of terms that people do not understand is particularly harmful to women. if we were to speak clearly about respect for the human dignity of every human being, about the equal status of women and men, the status of women in society could be on a completely different level.
madam president, commissioner, some groups in this parliament can make legitimate subject of discussion, on which this parliament should be discussing on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. the proposed administration of the road to equality in eu tax policies is an example. i reject all forms of direct or indirect discrimination against women. the common purpose of marriage is not to be found in the women. on the contrary, member states favour families with women and men who take care of each other and are willing to take care of and raise children. i consider it unfortunate that a majority vote in the council on danish matters is required. its adoption by its createil prostor pre populistov a nacionalistov, who by nás obvinili zo zrady národnej suverenity. to by sme nemali to allow.
in writing the rapid development of digitalisation and technological progress in society increasingly raises the need to address the challenges associated with the advent of automated road transport. the idea of automated mobility is also being introduced in other areas besides road transport, such as water, maritime and air transport logistics. automated mobility will transform all transport systems and will certainly bring many benefits to society and individuals. the entry of automated vehicles into the european market is expected from 2020. however, when they are integrated into road transport, the emphasis should be on making road transport safer, more sustainable, more accessible and taking into account the need to protect the environment and the air.
madam president, the withdrawal of us forces from syria will have a serious impact on religious and ethnic minorities in the country. turkey3s aggressive foreign policy surprises no one. their politicians are verbally molesting and threatening their neighbours every day. we have witnessed a turkish invasion on the southern border and we will see it again. 100 000 christians and other minorities are on a deadly march from turkish-led jihadists, who are waiting until us troops have left the country. together with the chaldeans-syriacs-assyrians friendship group, we call on the us administration to slow down the departure of us forces until the security of the christians and all other people has been secured. as a member of the chaldeans-syriacs-assyrians friendship group, i appeal to nato member states to encourage their turkish partner not to invade the region and carry out violations against religious and ethnic minorities in north-east syria. moreover, a no-fly zone for north-east syria must be established in order to let local militias, such as the syriac military council, defend themselves against turkish aggression.
mr president, the meaning of the term gender equality has changed considerably since we started using it here in the european parliament. we originally said it's not right for men and women to have different salaries, different pensions if they work in the same positions. this is an injustice that needs to be addressed, but i also want to stress that we should value women's access to work. women often have a different mindset, they can be systematic, they can be empathetic, they can bring peace to the workplace. but in business and in politics, it's often the men who are pushing, often more aggressively, the men who are more vocal. maybe that's why we have more men than women here who are not afraid to point out what they want to promote. i am certainly in favour of women having equal space and representation here in parliament, but the debate today has moved towards monitoring whether there is a sufficient number of women represented in the institutions of the european parliament. but we can't order things around here. so women are supposed to work here, but we can't dictate how many of them are supposed to be here. so we show them the respect they deserve. i'd like us to figure out how to help women-mothers raise their children.
mr president, i think it is striking that 70 years after the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights are not enough to make these rights self-evident for everyone. many citizens are denied freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. this is true not only of christians but also of minorities in the middle east. i support the adoption of european union guidelines which can help in practical ways to promote religious freedom here. today, in many parts of the world, people are being killed simply for wanting to preserve their right to choose freely what to believe, even if they simply choose not to believe in god simply to be atheists. i welcome the european parliament's call on the pakistani authorities to ensure the safety of the christian woman asia bibi. until now, she has not been able to leave her country and has to live in a safe place and hide there, in pakistan. less well-known, however, are other cases of people in pakistani and other prisons around the world awaiting sentencing under blasphemy laws. i also appreciate that the report mentions the creation of posts of special envoys for religious freedom in individual member states. this is further evidence that the issue of freedom of religion is becoming an important element of foreign policy.
the european social fund has been contributing to increasing unemployment, improving training and education, social inclusion and the fight against poverty since 1958. in the other period, we have seen that the esf has also made a significant contribution to reducing youth unemployment, where we have ensured through many programmes that young people are entitled to employment, traineeship or retraining after finishing their studies. the individual projects have contributed to improving economic, social and territorial cohesion. i would like to acknowledge that the ep committee on employment and social affairs is pushing for an increase in esf+ funding between 2021 and 2027 of 19% compared to the european commission's original proposal, i.e. from €89.6 billion to €106.8 billion. this is good news for the citizens of the member states, because the fund will be able to support various activities not only for young people, but also for children from poor families, who will have the opportunity through various programmes to develop their talents, but also to actively engage in leisure activities, thus ensuring their social exclusion due to economic poverty.
thank you, mr president, i will try to be on time. thanks for the heads-up. many of us in this chamber of the european parliament have experienced firsthand what it means to be a totalitarian regime that has ruled much of europe for 40 years. i am a child of socialism, where our communist-led government imagined how we would build a prosperous socialism. before you now stands a man who, under the violent influence of this ideology, had to promise as a child, when i was a spark, then a pioneer, then a bondsman, that i would build and defend a socialist homeland always ready. but, it wasn't really what i wanted. as a man from czechoslovakia, where we were dogmatically taught that communism and socialism, the theses of marx, engels, lenin are the best that can be, that god does not exist, and forbade to speak of his existence at all and the government declared that the spread of the teachings of jesus christ is a through-and-through evil thing. so i think it's really important that we educate our young people even in the darkest part of our history. history needs to serve as a reminder of the struggle precisely so that it doesn't repeat itself. the heroes of our time, whom i want to commemorate, serve as role models for us today. in our country, slovakia, there is a resistance fighter, soldier jozef gabčík, who during the second world war served in the exiled czechoslovak army and together with ján kubiš carried out the assassination of the representative of the nazi totalitarianism, the imperial protector heidrich, but when we defeated him, the communist one, who wanted to build the common good in the eastern bloc, came to power. i think we failed, though, and we're grateful for today's freedom.
thank you, mr. chairman. as i do every year when i receive this annual report, i could reiterate that this is the parliament of the european union and that this union is founded on the european treaties, which give its institutions no right to promote abortion. nor does it give it the right to restrict the member states in acceding or not acceding to international conventions such as the so-called istanbul convention. instead, i'm going to offer you statistics. the english version of the text contains 34 references to gender, 31 references to gender and three references to the so-called right to abortion. at the same time, however, it makes only one reference to freedom of conscience, which, together with the right to conscientious objection, is guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the text proposed promotes a very narrow view of the world, which i and my constituents reject. that's why i'm voting against his admission.
for the ecr group madam president, thank you very much. freedom of contract is one of the most important principles between firms and in the functioning of the economy. these activities are the ones that violate the freedom of contract. because the commission or parliament is entering into relations between private suppliers, private customers, because politicians think they know much better and still want to regulate something. we'd better not get involved in this at all. yeah, there are companies that pay late. well, then, just don't let anyone supply those companies. each supplier must protect his claims himself. he can't have the commission protecting them, because that's just not going to work. so if the commissioner really thinks that late payments should be addressed, please start with the european commission itself, which until recently had major shortcomings in terms of payment on time. or all the eurogroup funds that are going. it's going from buck to buck, the money. late payments also occur in the european parliament. please do it nicely, but don't go into the private sector. he'll do best without you. thank you very much.
madam president, this proposal has three fundamental shortcomings. first, the commission is not apolitical. when france recently announced that it would exceed the authorised budget deficit, the commission decided to grant it a derogation. we have no guarantee that the commission will approach the rule of law in the same way as, for example, france and poland. second, the general wording of the text allows its interpretation to change over time. they can also be used against legitimate actions by political opponents. and thirdly, sanctions are to be decided by the council of the european union by reverse qualified majority. this means that the sanctions proposed by the commission should be automatically adopted unless a qualified majority decides otherwise. the council would thus have only the role of an appellate court, which few would succeed.
the european union is founded on common values such as democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law, human rights and human dignity. not only the european institutions, but also the member states must protect and promote these values. it is very worrying that the development of the rule of law and fundamental rights situation in hungary is continuing to deteriorate and that hungary has been moving away from european values for a long time under the orbán government. since september 2018, when the european parliament drew attention to the violation of these rights, the situation in hungary has deteriorated in several areas such as freedom of the press, the judiciary, the status of ngos, academics and journalists, but also migrants and women. corruption has reached unprecedented levels and therefore we in the committee on budgetary control are concerned about the way in which european money is being used, as it becomes the subject of fraud and rigged public tenders for the benefit of the orbán government and its supporters. it is therefore very important that we respond to this situation and it is in the interest of all of us that the council should act under article 7 as proposed by the european parliament.
mr president, i am concerned, and i think we should all be concerned, at the growing tensions in the cross-strait relations between china and taiwan. we need to call for a diffusion of the tension that came after the speech of chinese leader xi jinping earlier this year. it must be clear that we have an interest in keeping peace and stability in the region. this should lead to our support for handling any disputes peacefully by diplomatic means with constructive dialogue and direct talks between the two partners. it should be clear that the eu does not believe that any coercive means should be used in addressing the current tensions, especially when it comes to security and the social and economic system chosen by taiwan. in this context, imposing the question of reunification on taiwan is very dangerous. i think it is in our interest to call on both partners to find a way to intensify their dialogue in order to appease the situation. we should also underline the values which we share with taiwan and be supportive in its contribution to the region. i would also like to call on the high representative, ms mogherini, to use all our diplomatic means to assist in sustaining peace and stability in the region.
in writing. although the number of fraud irregularities decreased by 20,8% in 2017 compared to 2016 and has been on a downward trend in the eu since 1998, the estimated annual value of fraud of €2,58 billion for 2017 is very high. however, it is not clearly demonstrated whether the decrease in fraudulent irregularities is genuine or is due to shortcomings in the detection of this activity. prevention and effective fraud detection, together with effective cooperation with member states, must therefore become a self-evident part of all policies. the prevention of fraud can be achieved by publicising and punishing detected fraud. fraud, together with corruption, and its insufficient and lengthy detection and investigation, harm the financial interests of the union. at the same time, they increase public distrust of the institutions and bodies of the union and of the member states. the endangered confidence in the rule of law and democracy is allowing the growth of extremist forces that increasingly exploit the themes of fraud and corruption. however, this may in the future have a significant negative impact on the overall political, economic and financial situation of the union and its member states. political responsibility in the fight against fraud therefore requires effective action.
mr. chairman, the world heard yesterday that the supreme court of pakistan has confirmed the release of ms. asia bibi. i consider it my duty to thank, at least symbolically, from this place, president tajani, all the colleagues who supported the resolutions on this matter, the european union's special envoy, mr figeľ, and also the hundreds of thousands of citizens of the union who supported the petition for the release of asia bibi. it has been confirmed that the european parliament, despite its politically diverse composition, is able to contribute to the defence of religious freedom in the world. if we devoted as much time and energy to the fight to save millions of women and mothers persecuted for their faith as we did to the fight for quotas for women on the boards of large companies, which parliament will be debating again tomorrow, the world would be a better, freer and fairer place.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, i will speak on the subject of the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in the eu institutional framework. since the lisbon treaty entered into force, the charter is the source of primary law. it is therefore imperative to call on eu bodies to fully comply with the charter’s provisions. equal consideration should be given to social and economic rights and member states need to respect their obligation to the social and economic requirements of the charter, also when complying with the eu’s economic instruments. we also need to ensure awareness and promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms and, by extension, of the charter’s provision. communication on this must be done at both national and eu level and should be further enhanced. lastly, we need to recognise and support the role of the fundamental rights agency (fra) and its recommendations in improving the culture of fundamental rights across the whole eu.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i consider it important that the court has ruled that the rights and obligations arising from citizenship of the union cannot be unduly restricted by the member states. so all eu citizens are equal, and we politicians must help them to achieve their rights. but the current situation shows that there are still many differences. i would therefore like to draw attention once again to the indigenous or national minorities of europe, who have been part of europe for centuries and have enriched the continent with their language and culture. many of them expected more from article 2 of the lisbon treaty and the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights. article 21 of the charter explicitly prohibits discrimination on grounds of belonging to a national minority, but unfortunately this is not always effective. i would remind the honourable commissioner and his colleagues that indigenous minorities will not be fully equal citizens of the eu until a comprehensive eu protection system is created for them. in this respect, we have high hopes for the 'minority safe pack' initiative.
thank you very much, madam president, i am pleased to have been able to support this resolution on the inclusion of roma in all areas of society in the european union. these groups of people, so important to the well-being of our societies, face many challenges, whether in childrearing, employment or housing. to alleviate the hardship they face, great investments have been made, great changes have been made to remedy them, and i am addressing the roma leaders, and i am encouraging them to make good use of these opportunities and to fully engage with those institutions and organizations that are mandated to improve their living conditions, as well as their opportunities for work, for employment, for the betterment of their children's education. it is very important that they engage in this responsibly and actively, so that they are not and therefore do not remain mere passive recipients of the european union aid that we have given and are giving them. this resolution is a sober challenge to long-term strategies for change for the better in the roma population living in our member states in the european union, and i support it.
mr president, first, my thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur for his devoted and good work on this issue over the past five years. the past months, unfortunately, have not seen major progress in bosnia and herzegovina (bih) on its european accession path. the main message to the political leaders of the country is to finish constituting all the relevant bodies, submit the remaining follow-up answers to the questionnaire and immediately adopt the rules of procedure of the stabilisation and association parliamentary committee (sapc). there is an exhaustive list of issues that bih needs to address. the sense of urgency is as present as ever. commitment to the reform agenda, and reforms aimed at achieving a fully functioning state with the rule of law at its core, are the main tasks ahead. the eu stands ready to facilitate the difficult discussions on electoral and constitutional reforms. i urge the political leaders of bih to use this opportunity and offer of eu help. i would also like to commend those in bih who fight for freedom of expression and against hate speech and religious hatred, and who promote inclusion, such as the high-school students from jajce who were awarded the 2018 max van der stoel award in recognition of their outstanding courage and inspirational activism. as this is the last discussion on bih in the current parliamentary term, i want to say that i really believe in the european perspective for bosnia and herzegovina, in the power of the voice of bosnians, and in their power to fight for a european future for their country.
for the ecr group. thank you very much, madam president. in slovakia, about thirty thousand new cancer cases are added every year. despite being one of the most deadly diseases, we currently do not know the exact number of positive diagnoses in slovakia. for several years now, we have not had a functioning national cancer registry. however, this should end this year and data collection should finally resume. also, after years of effort by many doctors and patient- representative organizations, screening for cervical, colon and rectal cancers and breast cancers is finally being launched these days. the latter type of cancer is the most common malignant cancer in women in slovakia. sadly, many women are already diagnosed with advanced cancer, and so on average, 300 women die every year in our country completely unnecessarily. i therefore welcome the introduction of screening, which will also recommend to the women invited a certified mammography centre. it is vital that examinations are carried out competently and that the myth of the harmfulness of mammograms is dispelled. because mammography is really the only method that can detect early breast cancer. a screening test takes a few minutes out of a woman's life, but it can save a life. so, i would like to appeal to women not to be afraid and to undergo preventive examination.
madam president, like mrs aiuto, i am convinced that we in the european union still have reserves in the fight against cancer. early cancer screening, affordable effective treatment, the dissemination of scientifically based information on lifestyle and factors that can help prevent cancer, as well as support for families with cancer patients all must become a european standard to be respected in all member states. today, sadly, it is still not a given. there are still differences in incidence and mortality rates between central and eastern europe and the rest of europe, not only for ovarian and cervical cancer but also for other forms of cancer. we can't have that. but we must also keep in mind that cancer is a disease that does not choose its victims by sex. i therefore support both the motion for a resolution and the amendments tabled by mrs petir.
author. madam commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are asking ourselves today, the question we are asking the commission and the council, is of enormous importance for the further development not only of our society but of humanity as a whole. because the modification of the human genome is not just about a small group that wants to determine the direction of scientific progress, it's about all of us. somatic cell gene editing technology is a boon with the potential to revolutionize the treatment of individual patients' diseases. however, it must be carefully distinguished from the genetic editing of embryos and gametes, which carries the risk of serious side effects not only for the individual but also for his offspring. the genetic changes inherited would thus lead to changes in all future generations. the irresponsible and unethical experiment by chinese scientist che jian-khui, who created the world's first genetically modified children using gene editing technology, demands a serious international response. this response cannot be simply a call for safety and efficacy standards to be established for such 'trained children'. the problem is not just how it was done, but more importantly, what was done. genetic engineering of the germ line is internationally prohibited precisely because it is contrary to the values of human dignity, human rights, integrity, but also equality. the consequences of reproductive genetic engineering pose serious social and ethical risks. the scientific community cannot have exclusive competence to decide on such a serious matter with far-reaching consequences. public trust in new technology is part of human progress. a society-wide debate is needed based on the correct interpretation of scientific knowledge in a social context. we therefore call on the commission to take a clear leadership position in support of a global ban on the genetic modification of humans and to create a platform for public engagement in this debate.
in writing. the fact that a chinese scientist recently dared to modify the dna in the germ cells of children has caused great concern throughout the world. in this debate, we should address two fundamental ethical issues that have serious political implications. the first is that the very existence of the technology of editing genetic information in germ cells, which is in principle available, threatens both human dignity and the destinies of families and generations. the changes in dna that occur in this way are inherited. but there is a second problem: it turns out that a part of the scientific community can't resist the temptation to "play god". her self-regulation has failed. there is only one answer to these two problems, and that is regulation in the form of prohibition. it must be strictly controlled and any violation punished. not just in the union, but anywhere in the world.
in writing. the european structural funds are the main source of investment for many member states, including slovakia. when slovakia joined the eu in 2004, our gdp per capita was around 40%. today we are at around 80%, and this is also the result of funds invested in transport infrastructure, social and health, but also in supporting job creation and environmental protection. in drawing up the budget for the seven-year period after 2021 and after the uk's withdrawal from the eu, there were concerns about how the cohesion policy budget would be drawn up, how much it would be cut. i am very pleased that the members are coming up with a 16% increase in the budget because they have understood the urgency of closing the regional gaps in each member state. less developed regions should continue to benefit from stronger eu support. the funds will significantly support innovation, digitalisation, energy self-sufficiency, or science and research. the good news is also that the administrative conditions for applying for and drawing on eu funds have been greatly simplified.
mr. president, every tax is an involuntary transfer from the taxpayer to the public budgets. it is therefore essential that the power to tax remains with the member states, as only they have the real democratic legitimacy to tax citizens. competition in tax systems and rates is good for the european union. it's what leads to a tendency to lower taxes - that's what we want if we're going to be competitive in the world. what is important, however, and what the commission must do, is to ensure that the member states compete fairly, so that some countries, such as luxembourg, do not negotiate special tax regimes with large companies, as happened under the current commission president, mr juncker, when he was still prime minister of luxembourg.
mr president, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for a good job. openness to foreign investment remains a key principle for the eu and a major source of its growth. we should nevertheless be cautious about investments that could endanger our critical infrastructure, technological development or even security. the experience from many member states shows that in many cases we are facing serious problems with third countriesʼ state-owned enterprises taking over european technological companies only for the key strategic reasons. the eu and member states should be sensitive to such investments, especially in cases where our investors do not enjoy the same rights to invest in the fdiʼs country of origin. moreover, we should also be more sensitive to such investments in the countries in the eu accession process, as strategic infrastructure might eventually be incorporated into the eu when it was in the hands of third countries, often the ones which are problematic.
the rapporteur thank you very much, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the single market in goods and services is one of the key priorities of the european union in the economic field. the european market accounts for up to one sixth of all world trade in goods and generates around 25% of the european union's gdp and 75% of intra-union trade. it is therefore essential to continue to promote the free movement of goods and services between member states and to create favourable conditions for trade with third countries, since the single market and the free movement of products are one of the attributes of the successful functioning of the union. however, there are not always common rules between member states and the principle of mutual recognition does not always apply. this means in practice that in the absence of specific union legislation, member states are free to lay down national rules determining the requirements to be met by products. such national requirements may exist simultaneously in different member states, but if they differ from one another, they may create barriers to trade within the union. the principle of mutual recognition requires that goods lawfully marketed in another state are not prohibited in that state unless the latter has reasonable grounds for prohibiting or restricting their sale. mutual recognition covers products which are not covered by or only partially covered by union harmonised legislation, such as a wide range of consumer products such as textiles, footwear, childcare products, jewellery, tableware or furniture. these goods represent approximately 20% of the market. however, as mutual recognition has been found not to always work, the new regulation on mutual recognition of goods aims to improve the functioning of this principle and to ensure that existing rights and obligations arising from the principle of mutual recognition are respected. the adoption of this regulation is also a response to the insufficient application of the principle of mutual recognition in the area of goods, due to a lack of awareness of this principle, legal uncertainty in its application and a lack of administrative cooperation between national authorities. in practice, this means that member states remain free to protect their legitimate national public objectives and restrict the placing of products on the market even where the market elsewhere is in compliance with the law, unless the decision is justified and proportionate. i am very pleased to have had the opportunity to work as rapporteur on this important proposal to improve the functioning of the single market. i am also very pleased that we, together with our fellow legislators, the council and the commission, have managed to find common ground in the trilogues on the text of the regulation and thus improve the functioning of this principle. i consider the key points to be, firstly, greater use of the principle of mutual recognition of goods; secondly, increased legal certainty for smes, leading to simplified procedures vis-à-vis national authorities through the introduction of a mutual recognition declaration; and thirdly, improvement of cross-border cooperation through the strengthening of product contact points, which will be one of the communication channels for both exporters and consumers. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ('trips agreement') and in the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ('trips agreement'). last but not least, it is an improvement on the problem solving system already in place at solvit centres. this mechanism provides new effective remedies for restoring confidence in the mutual recognition of goods.
the rapporteur i would like to stress, madam president, that mutual recognition is essential for the proper functioning of the single market in goods. the integration of the single market for goods has many positive effects. european consumers benefit from a wider choice of products and increased competition in the manufacturing sector leads to price convergence and encourages innovation. there's also a reduction in the cost of doing business for firms, and as we heard in the discussion, there's also an increase in trade -- an estimated increase of over 100 billion euros. i am pleased that this regulation has succeeded in achieving, above all, simplification of the rules, which is particularly useful for small and medium-sized enterprises and for job creation. i am glad that we are using the existing institutions and not creating new ones, and i am also glad that we have created a new platform for member states to share experience in this area. i would like to thank my colleagues very much for their cooperation, the european commission, and the representatives of the european council as well, because i am convinced that it is in this form that we have made a significant step towards the necessary completion of our common market.
in writing. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another member state will simplify procedures for businesses and national authorities when introducing products into the internal markets of member states. mutual recognition of goods on the basis of a voluntary declaration will reduce the administrative burden and simplify the functioning of the internal market in the placing of goods which already comply with the requirements of another member state. this rule shall not apply to products covered by or only partially covered by eu harmonised product safety rules. however, the right of a member state to refuse access to the market for goods where there is a legitimate and proportionate public interest must be preserved.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, zimbabwe is facing a deepening crisis in every aspect. in these trying times, the government must show leadership and willingness to tackle the difficult economic situation without excessive use of force and within a framework of rule of law. the new leadership in zimbabwe has a duty to uphold the fundamental rights of its citizens, which includes freedom of assembly, association and expression, and to protect citizens from arbitrary detention. disproportionate and excessive use of force against civilians is unacceptable. abuses by security forces must end. president mnangagwa’s government should pay attention to the human rights commission in its report. that is why the eu also needs to stand ready to assist the country effectively in the reform process, which is a matter of urgency.
mr president, i would like to ask you about this document: do we really want to make the killing of unborn children a human right and a women's right? i often hear about the european union as a successful project that is bringing peace and prosperity to our region. yes, it is, it is. then i don't understand why, when we live well in a rich part of the world, there is a fear of unborn and innocent children and we want to kill them, my question. do unborn children really stand in the way of progress in gender equality? is that true? is this what the european parliament calls progressive social change? this one? i certainly do not want such progress to come at the expense of defenseless and innocent children. i don't understand the enormous fear of another view either. if someone in this room disagrees with, for example, the istanbul convention, which is a convention on combating violence against women -- but beware, if they disagree with it not because they approve of violence against women, but just disagree with the convention on gender ideology, which contains -- then they are labeled as extremists and they are going to be fought. i ask myself where we get the right to alienate member states for family policy that promotes motherhood and parenthood.
mr president, every member of this parliament has the right to put questions to the commission. and the number of questions asked by communist mps proves that this is an important part of parliamentary control. in response to a question from mr pimenta lópez, two diametrically different motions for resolutions were tabled, illustrating the main reservation of left-wing meps against parliamentary democracy. parliament is the place to seek agreement, and they have no interest in finding such an agreement. the agreement would help women in particular, whose rights the mep is covering up like fig leaves when he asks the commission to suppress a perception of the world and of man that is different from his own. i very much regret that we did not vote on the alternative resolution, which i would certainly have supported, because it respects or respected the existing european treaties and the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, as a doctor, i know that many medicines contain both natural and synthetic substances that, in excessive quantities or if misused, can harm or even kill a person. but when used properly, they help to overcome illness or pain. however, we in slovakia are cautious about cannabis. it's a soft drug that affects brain activity, and we don't want it to be publicly available. it is right to allow her research to help patients suffering from chronic pain in particular. however, the cultivation and handling of hemp must be subject to strict regulations and include safeguards against its spread outside the environment of a certified laboratory. at the same time, it must be ensured that such research is not misused for the uncritical promotion of cannabis and soft drugs.
mr president, i have to express my opinion on this and i cannot understand why the regressive left of this parliament wants us all to waste our time on resolutions that bring confusion, loss of dignity for individuals and fake rights. this is a medical issue, it’s not a political question. babies born with deformed genitalia must be given the best healthcare and the problem must be resolved. there is no politics in this. a world-renowned geneticist has informed me that only one in 200 000 babies is born with this condition, and there is almost never any uncertainty about the true sex. if there were any, a simple chromosome test makes it crystal clear if it’s a boy or girl. so this is unscientific and manipulative on the part of some politicians and gender ideologists here. they want to confuse european citizens, brainwashing them into believing another human right is being denied. it’s not true. there is no treaty competence for this, there is no political need for this and i am saddened that more people didn’t do their own research and vote against this terrible resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. i'd like to thank my colleague mr. dalton for his work on the document. i think that the cooperation between the european people's party and the ecr has been a pillar of the success we can now talk about. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the system. i have supported the creation of such a system from the outset, because the central system excludes technical problems and also excludes any misuse of information. i think i can say with confidence that the multiannual work is now complete, as both the commission and the council have recognised that such a system is a key element of effective law enforcement, especially when we consider that schengen borders are also open to law enforcement. i also think it is important that fingerprints will be part of the identification of third country offenders, as they are more difficult to identify. fingerprints are the most reliable way to accurately identify a person. i would like to stress that the security of citizens living in the european union is not negotiable. that is why, during the negotiations, i strongly advocated that the ecris-tcn system should cover not only non-eu third-country nationals. i am convinced that information on any dual national who holds the nationality of a third country in addition to the nationality of a member state of the union should be stored. the system must not contain any loopholes. the european people's party therefore supports this document because it considers it to be a major step forward and we believe that it will create a functioning system. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. this is a crucial moment for european democracy. the european parliament and we, its members, have said from the beginning that the european citizens' initiative needs to be improved and simplified. we cannot ignore the proposals that people have made to the union. only in this way can the union become a citizens' union, and this requires a more flexible procedure and clearer rules. looks like things are gonna change today. in the course of a few months, the initiators were found guilty in two cases brought by the court of justice of the european union against the european commission. the two eu citizens' initiatives that are being registered are the so-called minority safe pack and the initiative cohesion policy for equality of regions and sustainability of regional cultures, which would strengthen the protection of the rights of indigenous minorities in europe. the commission had previously refused to register the two initiatives. today, it turns out that you were wrong. the successful collection of signatures for the safe pack showed how important this issue is to europeans, as it gathered far more signatures than required. the second court order also indicates that another petition is about to be launched. i am therefore convinced that the issue of eu citizens, including indigenous minorities, must remain a priority, and this initiative will help us to do so.
in writing. – we had a good chance to make a report, which would give clear instructions to such an important issue as conflict prevention and mediation. the eu needs to have its capacities in these areas ready and checked. we are surrounded by countries, where the skills and methodology in conflict resolution or mediation could not only save lives, but also contribute to a safer, more stable and peaceful environment. mediation and conflict prevention should become an integral part of our external action. the eu is well known for using soft power, by developing further the framework and methodology and capacities for the mediation work. in this respect we should be enhancing our capacities and improve inter-institutional cooperation and communication. all eu institutions which work in this area should have a common joint approach. as an mep with substantial experience in mediation, i would like to stress the positive role that the parliament started to play in facilitation and mediation of political crises. we have good results in ukraine and north macedonia through jean monnet dialogues. we should be building up on these successful practices.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i want to draw attention to the dangers and consequences of corruption. i'm afraid that many people think that this is just a theoretical problem that we can say condemnatory sentences about, but then we often settle for half-baked solutions and say that this phenomenon is inexhaustible. i am a citizen of slovakia and as such, i have been shocked to see how corrupt the current ruling coalition is in its approach to government. this tolerance has been distorted to the point that a journalist who exposed corruption cases was killed in our country, and it became clear that criminal groups were preparing for more murders, a prosecutor, the deputy attorney general and the former minister of justice were wanted to be killed. so i would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not enough to investigate individual abuses, but we must break the nexus between the underworld and politics and prevent corruption from becoming part of our political systems. thank you very much.
for the ecr group. mr president, mr prime minister, exactly 20 years ago, nato underwent its first expansion since the end of the cold war. although slovakia was not part of this enlargement, it eventually led to our civilization being anchored not only in the north atlantic alliance but also in the european union. unfortunately, in recent times, it has been openly questioned not only by various extremists but also by parts of the ruling coalition. undermining our strategic alliances and recklessly overtaking russia are contrary to the interests of slovakia and the european union. if we want to be a trusted partner for our allies, we have to be consistent. we must be clear to the public in slovakia. not resorting to lies or fear mongering just to get more popular. yes, negative emotion makes people more mobile, but it's dangerous to mess with it. it can easily slip away and be destructive. therefore, today more than in the past, we must offer not only slovakia but also europe a positive vision. a vision of a just, safe and well-governed society. places where people want to live, work, raise their kids. i believe we can agree on that vision. but today, we must move from words to deeds. that the judiciary, education, health, social services are functioning and that even the most vulnerable, children and adults with disabilities, can live a life of dignity.
mr president, i would like to welcome mr pellegrini to the european parliament. we are delighted that you have come to talk to us about your views on the future of europe and the european union. that future, i think, is here and now. we all make it, and those of us who aren't sitting here, and we all have a responsibility for it. you have made it clear what place you envision for slovakia in this european union. i appreciate that, it was explained very clearly. but despite this, or perhaps precisely because of this, i would like to appeal to you, mr prime minister, to bear in mind this responsibility, the responsibility for european democracy, the responsibility for european solidarity and the responsibility for european security, when presenting your positions and opinions, whether in the european union or in slovakia. so that you can stand up to those colleagues and political partners in slovakia who deliberately spread fabricated lies about the european union and who thus gamble with the trust of slovak society towards the union. i would like to hear your comments and i wish you success in your future work for slovakia.
mr president, mr prime minister, i also welcome you to the european parliament, which has been very active towards slovakia over the past year. this was also reflected in the fact that we pushed for the creation of an international investigation team, and we have already seen the results, especially after the murder of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová. and i believe this team will continue. this was also reflected in the fact that we acted on behalf of the special committee on tax fraud on the bašternák and kočner cases, and it is clear that only european cooperation and information sharing can prevent such fraud. and it was also reflected in the mandatory control of european money going to agriculture, which is one of our main competences. in this respect, the specific situation in slovakia is that most of the support goes not to small farmers, as in the union, but to large farmers. that is why we need to make some substantial changes, which i would also like to ask you to do. it is a change in land management, in the mandatory accrual of payments, but above all in the control of the distribution of european resources, because it is impossible for a government agency that distributes money not to know who owns the land and who does the work on it. these changes are necessary not only to improve the situation of small farmers but also to better control european resources.
mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the floor of the european parliament. you spoke very nicely about the vision of the european union. i am in favour of this and i believe that we will have a common europe only if we all pull together, each and every member state. eventually, it was talked about. as a negative example, the romanian colleague pointed out that we are preventing romania and bulgaria from entering the schengen area. i would ask myself two questions: how can we pull together with nordstream 2 on the table? and my question is how do the individual prime ministers in the council of the european union take this position, because i think we are doing some member states a disservice. the next question is how the european council will deal with the deployment of the agencies, because we know how unfairly and against all rules the agency for medicines has been divided or allocated, and now there is a labour agency on the table. so if you could just comment on that.
mr president, welcome to you, and welcome to me, mr prime minister. there is no doubt that slovakia has many problems of its own, such as the influence of the mafia or the enormous corruption. but most of these problems are for our country to solve on its own. specifically, a government that is formed by free, general and secret elections. so, while i am at home among the most vocal critics of prime minister pellegrini and the party of which he is a member, i want to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. i find it unacceptable that mr papadimoulis is practising here as prime minister of the slovak republic. how can we dare to reject migrants? by interference, i don't mean the investigation of the murder of journalists that we asked for, and i also want to thank sophie in 't veld and mrs. grässle for their involvement. if the european union wants to do something to make sure there is no difference between east and west, between old and new, then so be it. if it follows the rules it has set, if it has the same meter for everyone, if it pays the same agricultural subsidies for everyone, if it does not violate sanctions, for example nord stream 2, if the european commission treats everyone equally, then there will be no differences.
mr president, mr prime minister, i also thank you for presenting a vision for slovakia, a vision for europe, and i agree that slovakia wants to be a responsible partner in the european union and our success is linked precisely to our european integration and involvement in north atlantic structures. but i will pause to say that slovakia wants to be part of all the activities that are aimed at consolidating unity or, as you have often said, to be at the core, part of the core of the european union. but are you really sure that our citizens want more of the european union in areas such as the european social pillar or a common european army? as a slovak representative in this parliament, i consider it important to speak about the need to reduce the level of involvement of the european union institutions in the interests of subsidiarity. as the chairman of the european christian political movement, i propose such a reform of the european union, in which we point out where the european institutions and legislation are beneficial and bring real development to slovakia. it is crucial that we re-apply the vision of the founders, based on judeo-christian values, to the challenges facing europe today. i believe that slovakia's core values are also a strength of the european union. together, we respect our responsibilities and want to work towards a future of the european union in which life is valued and society is fertile so that it can bring peace and stability to future generations.
mr president, europe faces a grave threat to our democracies. the ability to argue with facts against lies, disinformation and propaganda from third countries, is becoming more and more difficult. we must strive at both eu and national level to defend our values and fight off cyber- and information warfare. it’s a problem we face both in the eu and in the regions on our borders, in the western balkans and the eastern neighbourhood. in this respect, we need the european external action service (eeas) east stratcom task force with particular regional focuses, which need to improve communication on eu topics. i also support the call for improving the funding and resources for these structures and their cooperation with official eu bodies such as eu delegations in third countries. countering this information and hostile propaganda needs to be a priority, not only in the european elections but also for the incoming european commission, council and parliament. we need to do a much better job in communicating the eu’s values and policies effectively. otherwise our democracies might not survive this external pressure.
for the ecr group. mr president, i am very pleased that this directive, which i consider to be a very important legislative proposal to improve the lives of people with disabilities, will be finally adopted during the term of office of the present european parliament. i have supported the draft of this directive from the outset and have worked with other colleagues to improve it through amendments. however, the subsequent trilogue negotiations have changed the wording of the directive and i do not hide a certain disappointment that the result is not as ambitious as i would have liked, but above all as necessary for the daily lives of people with disabilities. but today is not the end of anything. quite the opposite. i believe that efforts to improve the accessibility of goods and services, and to debarbarianise the physical environment and transport will continue not only here in the european parliament but also, and above all, in the member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, first i thank the rapporteur, ms fajon, for her good work on this proposal. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i supported this proposed regulation and asked for a greater role for parliament in its management. we have requested that parliament be consulted on financial decisions and reporting on this instrument. the instrument aims to safeguard freedom of movement but with particular emphasis on strong and efficient border management. in this respect, i welcome the increase in funding for this instrument, with a focus, among others things, on quality of spending as well as better monitoring of the evaluation framework. i could add that it is imperative that this fund complements the union’s other external financial instruments and instruments with an external dimension. compliance with fundamental rights and with the legal instruments of the european union is also essential.
madam speaker, after yesterday's chaos in the british house of commons, we know the withdrawal agreement is dead. the british cannot and will not vote on it indefinitely, and we must pour ourselves a glass of pure wine: we are back to square one, we have just lost time. but the decision of the british people to leave the european union must be respected. ignoring this decision would be criminal, considerations of a second referendum or withdrawal of the application are completely unrealistic. and that's why the only logical solution is to prepare for a hard brexit, for a no deal. it may not be the end of the world for britain or the european union if we approach the situation with a cool head. the rules of the world trade organization and so on will apply. if our british colleagues ask for a delay in leaving the european union tomorrow, we can extend it without much trouble and in that time some basic steps and measures can be taken to bring about a so-called hard brexit.
mr president, the migration crisis has caused a political earthquake on european soil. it reveals the different understandings of each member state's foreign and internal security policies, and this approved asylum and migration fund demonstrates that the european union has embarked on a path of political pushing the agenda without seeking to reconcile different approaches. slovakia, like other member states, has declared its willingness to address the migrant crisis where it arises. the funding from this fund will have the exact opposite effect, namely to act as a magnet for more asylum seekers. from my travels, and having been in several refugee camps or ports where migrants come, i can tell that, except for direct conflicts of war, people want to stay in their countries and build them up, develop them. in his letter to europeans, president macron outlines a pact with africa, development support, investment, university partnerships. similarly, the european christian political movement, of which i am president, proposes a sustainable economic model in which relationships are the most valued. our political efforts should be directed precisely there. the union's interference with the national competences of the member states is a dead end.
the rapporteur madam president, mr vice-president of the european commission, people remember the financial aid to greece as the country that was hit hardest by the financial crisis. the euro area countries then created the european financial stability facility. this temporary mechanism became the permanent european stability mechanism known as the euro. the aim was to provide financial assistance to countries affected by the financial and sovereign debt crisis and which had lost access to financial markets, namely ireland, spain, portugal, greece and cyprus. however, these countries had to commit to doing their homework in the form of structural reforms. the measures have helped to rebuild their economies, but they have also prevented enormous damage that would have been caused not only to the euro area but to the european union as a whole. let's look at these countries today. thanks to european cooperation, ireland is achieving the highest economic growth in the european union, spain has broken its historical export records, portugal has achieved a primary surplus. the greeks, who had to undergo the most painful reforms, also no longer need a bailout program. they can again finance themselves in international markets. greece has created hundreds of thousands of new jobs in recent years and is enjoying solid economic growth. a few days ago, moody's rated greece up 2 notches to b1. the agency considers that the reforms are already more firmly anchored, with a high probability of further progress and a low risk of a return to the status quo. and yet, because of the aid to greece in 2011 2012, the government fell in my country, slovakia. but it has turned out that it is precisely because of our joint european cooperation that the euro is more resilient today than ever before. support for the euro is also at its highest level in the euro area since its introduction. since the inception of the european stability mechanism, we have seen that its intergovernmental nature reduces its ability to react quickly to economic and financial shocks. therefore, the future integration of the european stability mechanism into the legal framework of the european union will enhance its capacity for action and its effectiveness. this integration should be seen as part of the project of completing economic and monetary union. it is important that future incorporation into the eu legal framework takes into account the role of national parliaments. in future, as regards the budgetary resources of the european union, the european parliament should have the political power to exercise all budgetary control rights under the discharge procedure. in such a case, the european court of auditors should have a role in the discharge procedure. the financial resources, instruments of the reformed european stability mechanism, should be able to provide member states with preventive financial assistance before they face significant difficulties in obtaining funds on the capital market. financial assistance to member states may be complemented by budgetary instruments to support economic and financial stabilisation, investment and upward socio-economic convergence in the euro area. the european stability mechanism should not remain closed to euro area countries only. it should be open to the participation of all member states of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our joint efforts will result in greater security and stability not only for the euro area but for the european union as a whole.
the rapporteur mr president, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, mr petr silva pereraz, for his excellent cooperation. thank you to the shadow reporters, as well as our advisors and associates for a great job. i would like to emphasise that member states cannot tackle systemic risks that threaten the financial stability of the european union on their own. this is not just about the profitable firms that mr. marusyk mentioned, but also about the shocks that in a globalized economy can hit these profitable firms and bring entire regions, states into trouble with them and spread the problems to other countries. we need to have the tools to deal with these kinds of threats. the current intergovernmental nature of the european stability mechanism reduces its ability to respond effectively to economic and financial shocks. therefore, the future integration of the european stability mechanism into the legal framework of the european union will enhance its capacity for action and its effectiveness. until that happens, we call for meaningful reform in the short term through a revision of the esm treaty, without prejudice to more ambitious future developments. there's no room for individualism here. only by working together can we bring greater security and stability to the euro area and, ultimately, to the european union as a whole.
mr president, i appreciate that this report sums up a lot of ongoing issues with turkey. without any doubt, we are dealing with a very unpredictable and precarious neighbour. turkey’s administration and its armies symbolise suffering and misery to those living nearby, including christians, kurds, turkmens and armenians. as a flagship of democracy, the eu should be able to have a clear position on turkey. that is why the european christian political movement, which i chair, initiated a petition to end accession talks definitively. otherwise, we will keep the door open and communicate to minorities living under oppression in the middle east that we do not care. but we do care and we have to tell them so. the ending of accession talks is a strong political gesture but the current state of affairs in turkey makes it deserved. there is no time simply for suspension, as referred to in the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to ask my distinguished colleagues, my distinguished colleagues, if we could postpone this vote until next week, for one reason only. in our country, slovakia, the second round of the presidential elections will take place on saturday, and we are concerned that the motion for a resolution may not be misused for one side or the other. i want to ask you a very nice favor. we have two pro-european candidates in the campaign and it would be very unfortunate if any hint of the resolution were to be reflected in the campaign. i don't think anything will happen if we vote on it next week.
i'm not saying we shouldn't discuss it. let's have a discussion. i don't want to take a point off the agenda. i just want to move the vote to next week. madam, you do not live in slovakia. you don't know what all the topics are in a presidential campaign. in good faith and in good faith, i'm asking you. whatever you decide, but i really want to ask you. thank you. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. tax evasion, financial fraud, tax havens have a very negative impact, other than financial, on our society and on the rise of extremism. the enormous growth of disparities between a small number of very rich people, usually representing global corporations, using all three of these instruments or aspects, whose annual profits presented in the media are grossly out of proportion to the decline in the quality of life of the middle class and the increase in poverty in the european union, is unacceptable. but at present, we have two very effective tools that we could use. first of all, it is a ban on participation in the financial resources of the european union, and ideally also in the budgets of the member states, for all companies located in so-called tax havens. and the second tool is a clear european tax policy that does not allow for the benefits of large corporations and for tax evasion by individual member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i want to support this resolution, which is not directed against the citizens of malta or slovakia, but on the contrary, it is for their protection and is directed against certain political practices of both the maltese and slovak governments. this resolution is based on the protection of democratic values and these must be respected by all governments. as for my country, slovakia, we were shocked that someone dared to murder a journalist and his fiancée. we were even more shocked to learn that the italian mafia had its hands in the cabinet office and that people in our country had been found plotting the murder of three other important people, the prosecutor, the deputy prosecutor general, and a well-known lawyer who had previously served as minister of justice. protests of tens of thousands of people marched in the country several times to protest against corruption and political practices. so let me thank the european parliament for its actions, which clearly put itself on the side of citizens who reject such distortions. i would also like to point out that the slovak parliament has also ignored the request of the european parliament's committee on petitions to reconsider its position on the application of the principle of collective blame to a group of its own citizens. i am referring to the resolution of the slovak parliament of 20 september 2007 and i ask the european commission to check whether this resolution is in line with the basic documents of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. a year ago, immediately after the murder of journalist ján kuciak and his girlfriend, we all expressed our belief, here on this soil, that the law enforcement agencies will succeed and that justice will prevail. today i am very pleased to be able to say, once again on the floor of the european parliament, that justice has been served, that five people have been accused of ordering and carrying out murder. two weeks ago, the prime minister of the slovak republic, peter pellegrini, spoke in the plenary here about, among other things, how his government is taking measures in the area of the rule of law and fighting corruption. the government of the slovak republic has approved and is successfully implementing the draft anti-corruption policy of the slovak republic for the years 2019 to 2023, which focuses on public administration, central government bodies as a priority and which is based on western european standards and oecd ideas. but we have to be honest with each other. it is not only in malta and slovakia that corruption needs to be fought. the statistics speak for themselves. the european union loses €1 trillion a year to tax evasion and avoidance. the question is, when will the eu have tax havens and when will there be real european legislation to prevent fraud and tax evasion and abuse of euro funds. in conclusion - i have five seconds left - commissioner, i would like to thank you for your visit to slovakia and for your very positive comments on roma issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. it's going to be tough now. this is the second report on the situation in slovakia and malta. and i, like in the debate on the first report at the end of last year, want to say that i am sincerely sorry for the death of mr kuciak, his friend mrs kušnírová and mrs galicia. however, i cannot judge this report as untrend. this report is biased because i was in regular contact with the rapporteur and gave her information that was not included in this report. so if you'll excuse me, i'll say them now. in slovakia, in a relatively short time, not only was cooperation opened up with all the relevant agencies mentioned by the commissioner, but there were already accused, whether executors or clients of the murder. i am very sorry that the gulf between western and eastern europe is getting deeper and that every month we are already witnessing in the meetings here how western european states criticize eastern european states for breaching the rule of law. it's a great pity for all of us... (interrupted by the chairman) (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. very simple answer. i said that in the context of how you have been criticizing here every month some member state from the eastern part of the european union. first it's the czech republic, then hungary, then poland, then romania, then bulgaria and now slovakia. it's on the agenda of every single meeting. and i just want to point out that this really does not contribute to good cooperation between member states. you speak of corruption. in the previous debate, we talked about the netherlands, your country, as a country where you adopt laws and legislation that create the conditions for corruption, by providing financial benefits to large companies... (interrupted by the president)
i'm not going to tell you. he lives like a monk. this is a phrase that is synonymous with a value-based and moral way of life. unfortunately, for slovak history, such a sentence will forever be a symbol of the cause of the alleged murder. that is the label that a corrupt oligarch in slovakia sent for the purpose of murder, when he decided to have a journalist who was seeking the truth murdered. it was the mafia businessman marián kočner who decided to take 'justice' into his own hands. it was the journalist's life of value that was the cause of his death. such a fact must shake every person not only in our country. so i want to thank the european parliament's mission here for the parts of the resolution on the fight against corruption in slovakia and malta that clearly mention this heinous murder, the dysfunction of our judicial system or the intimidation of journalists by government officials. but my main thanks also go to the people who are marching and demonstrating in slovakia, because it is the unceasing engine of the unraveling of the mud at the top of politics in our country. i hope that the change for slovakia, which is fairer and more decent, has really happened.
i'm not going to tell you. today we commemorate the international day of the unborn child. the fundamental duty of politics is to protect human life and dignity at every stage. this protection may take various forms. our goal is to create an environment where every human life is accepted as the greatest gift and treasure. the right to a life of dignity does not disappear with age or illness. it does not miraculously come into existence in the third or the thirtieth week of the life of a human fetus. defending the human dignity of the unborn child is the first step towards our truly appreciating the gift of life as a society and setting our priorities accordingly in all areas of public policy. from health and social care to economics and education to the environment and immigration policy. it's like a button underneath the collar that, if you turn it upside down, it'll turn upside down on your shirt.
i'm not going to tell you. the current copyright directive, the proposal, is a fundamental restriction on the freedom of the internet, specifically articles 11 and 13. that's why we had wikipedia shut down recently. according to article 11, everything except very short excerpts is to be copyrighted. unfortunately, it's not clear what that means: whether it's three words or three sentences. article 13 establishes the responsibility of social network operators to ensure that content is not stolen. it's like the owner or operator of a parking lot has to be responsible for making sure that the car i park at their place isn't stolen. over five million people have signed a petition against these two articles. that's more people than expressed in the time change. that is why i am surprised at how the commission and the council ignore the will of the voters and how they are being influenced by print publishers. i have tabled a motion with a group of members to delete articles 11 and 13, but if this motion is passed, i will vote for this directive.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. after three years of work and searching for the optimal setting for copyright protection in the digital age, we must conclude that the authors of this directive have failed. that's why i voted against it. and i am disappointed that meps, colleagues, that you have ignored the voice of the citizens and we have adopted this directive. technology and the development of artificial intelligence are a huge challenge for democracy. they are a powerful tool of control in authoritarian regimes. many of these advances will provide autocrats with new ways to spread propaganda. i'm terrified of the advances in artificial intelligence that will reach the point where the original news story and the technologically generated one will be indistinguishable. authors and publishers, for profit, ignore this fact because they are only interested in the reward for their authorship and work. i myself have translated dozens of books from english into slovak. but, this is what authors are entitled to, but not at the cost of losing freedom on the internet. and we, from the countries behind the iron curtain, have our own experience of life in captivity, and therefore we are more aware of the risks that freedom is not a given. so i appreciate the commitment of the people who called us, wrote us, but asked us to oppose. even if it didn't go away.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteurs for their work on this file. when i saw the proposal from the commission for the first time, i was quite sceptical. as the former rapporteur on the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and european fund for sustainable development (efsd), i saw problems in combining both of our external instruments under one umbrella, especially in the case of the eni. it will be crucial to keep the initial philosophy of this instrument as a policy—driven instrument for our neighbourhood partners. i support continuation of the ‘more for more’ principle. we established this principle in order to reward and support reforms, efforts leading to the consolidation of democracy, rule of law and protection of human rights and support for economic governance reforms. at the same time, we should find the proper framework for discussing the performance and allocation for ‘more for more’. also, the european parliament should be more involved in the designing, programming and monitoring of the instrument.
madam president, i would like to thank and show my appreciation to all the rapporteurs for having prepared a very good report. the eu needs to be focused on investing in programmes and projects related to the rule of law, the functioning of democratic institutions and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and of the media. in order to achieve these goals, it is crucial to cooperate with governments, but also to actively support civil society. we need to use our financial support in the region wisely. we are the biggest donor and trading partner of all the countries of the region. we invest in infrastructure, energy networks, environment and agriculture in the western balkans. we should expect that the countries will make serious commitments to reforms and to upholding the fundamental values.
in writing. according to this year's world watch list, compiled by open doors, algeria has dropped 20 places from 42nd to 22nd on the list of countries where christians are most persecuted. the primary source of persecution stems from intolerance between relatives and neighbors. however, it is disturbing that this pressure on christians is also being increased by the state through laws and bureaucratic obstructions restricting freedom of religion, which are directed primarily against protestant churches. since november 2017, government authorities have closed churches and denied permits for religious activities and services, pastors have been accused of proselytism and forced to provide regular reports, import of christian books and materials has been restricted, and christians have been detained and sentenced for practicing their faith. we must therefore urge the algerian government to guarantee freedom of religion and to lift all charges and punishments against christians simply for practicing their faith.
the rapporteur mr president, when drawing up the budget of the european parliament, we must focus on our core mission and make the best use of resources to improve legislative work. things that are not related to our mission should be excluded from the budget as much as possible. exactly ten years ago, i was the chief rapporteur on the budgets of all the european institutions, in the same role as i am today. at that time, the lack of planning, the lack of communication about the available translation capacities prevented their effective use. the institution that was to provide the translation often automatically commissioned external translators without checking whether internal capacities were not available within the other european institutions. in the field of translation within the institutions alone, we found reserves of over 10 million euros a year. since then, much has been improved in this area. but even today, we need to look at how cooperation between institutions works. the available capacity of each institution shall be made available to the other institutions. surely we can find millions more reserves and savings here too. colleagues, colleagues, we are fighting together for higher growth, employment, a better standard of living for our citizens. sometimes we put obstacles in our own way in this endeavor. some members' assistants have until recently, instead of doing meaningful work, literally produced written questions for their members on tape. the main reason? because the websites and subsequently some media have rated the mps as active accordingly. in 2015, the number of questions to the commission approached 1 700 per month. the answers to these questions have employed more than 100 people in the commission and the european parliament combined. the costs amounted to almost eur 13 million per year. it's hard for me to say, but there are times when for those who ask, the answer isn't the main thing they need. it is not surprising, then, that the commission considers some questions to be questions in the bag. and then the commission underestimates the answer and even the honest question may not be answered responsibly. over the last three years, we have managed to tackle this problem substantially, reducing the number of questions to the commission by 9 000 per year and cutting costs by more than eur 7 million per year. i would like to thank you, honourable members of the committee on budgets, for your support, by a large majority, on monday, of the proposal to end the process of so-called oral explanations of votes. because it's another piece of paperwork. this will result in an additional saving of eur 1 million per year. interpreters will not have to unnecessarily interpret into all the languages of speeches intended only for listeners in the member's home country. after all, we have other tools to explain to our constituents how and why we voted. it'll be another cut in red tape. we want to further reduce the cost of staff travel between brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg. for example, instead of travelling, use videoconferencing more. we're working on other problems. and that's helping accredited assistants who are serving two terms and are literally missing sometimes a few days or weeks to meet the criteria to resolve their social and pension rights. we want the interns to have their living expenses covered during the internship and a guaranteed income without increasing the budget of the european parliament. sometimes, in the european parliament, but also in any other institution, psychological or sexual harassment can occur, causing severe psychological and physical trauma to the victims. in this area, we can't do without a professional mediator or a psychologist and other experts. i'm glad we came to an agreement here, too. we have worked for many months to simplify the procedure for approving the european parliament's budget. we're almost there. i am confident that the new members will bring this process to a successful conclusion after the elections in may. if we can do that, we'll save the whole spring, save human resources and money. the budget is based on the assumption that the united kingdom will leave the european union on the basis of an agreement. if there is a hard brexit or if the uk does not leave, we will have to adjust the budget through the budgetary procedure. the decision of the people of the united kingdom to leave the european union was influenced by false news and misinformation. it is therefore necessary to be able to explain to our citizens the european union project, its positives and its successes. one of the tools to bring the european union closer to the people without everyone having to travel to the european parliament is to visit them in their regions. we're starting to build mobile exhibitions and presentation facilities, called parliamentarians, that will come directly to your region. they will give you an insight into the work and real results of european cooperation in a fun way. especially for young people in schools, this will be a great benefit. thank you, shadow reporters from all political factions. we searched and found the best solutions. i also thank my coworkers and advisors. due to the upcoming european parliament elections, everything was conducted in a shortened mode and often late into the night. sometimes on the weekends. my coworkers did it voluntarily and on their own initiative. you would not believe how selflessly some people can work, even though they know that they will also be leaving after the european parliament elections in may. i want to thank them for that. they're great people who don't get lost in life. after 15 years, this is my last report to the european parliament and my last speech. it has been an honour to work with you to build a better europe.
mr president, thank you for your speech. statistics show that global water consumption is six times greater than it was a century ago, and it is expected to increase by another 20 to 50 percent by 2050, huge numbers. one third of the world's largest groundwater systems are threatened with drying out. the number of people living with severe water stress is expected to reach 3.2 billion by 2050. and it's not just going to be in poor countries. even in such a rich source of groundwater, as the island of life - that's the name in slovakia - entire villages have water infected with bacteria and are dependent on drinking water tanks. organisations and activists have warned the european commission that state authorities often do not act, do not take sufficient action to protect water, but put the economic interests of companies first, and they do not take the environment into account. the drinking water directive aims to ensure access to water for every citizen, but has not been revised since 1999. but we know that climate change is changing living conditions, and droughts are the cause of the global migration that we have to face since 2015. that's why we have to act.
i'm not going to tell you. the creative europe programme is a programme for all, and i am very pleased that the creative industries in the european union are growing, because it is helping a lot, for example, the film industry, cultural heritage, book translation, but it is also for those who are consumers of the culture that is supported. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. although creative europe is also funded by other european union financial instruments, i agree with the rapporteur that the budget for the creative europe programme needs to be increased. on the other hand, the commission's proposal to introduce a certificate of excellence for creative and cultural projects that have been highly rated should be welcomed, which would facilitate access to funding. i wish creative europe to have support in the new european parliament after the elections in may.
madam president, i was happy to support this motion designed to reduce racism. i think it should in no way be outdated in our european societies. many of our african brothers and sisters were brought to europe under awful situations. we cannot be proud of these thefts and dehumanising acts. for true reconciliation to take place, we must acknowledge these facts, apologise and if possible make restitution, then forgiveness between nations can bring these issues to an end. it is essential that this generation be colour blind. there is no one who shouldn’t be promoted or marginalised based on their skin colour. we are all fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of our greater god.
i'm not going to tell you. i was unable to vote yesterday on the resolution on the situation after the arab spring. the european union, and this parliament as an institution, has no right to call on other countries to liberalize abortion. such recommendations are, first of all, hypocritical, since the union has no competence in this matter. the approach of the member states to this issue varies considerably. the requirement formulated in this resolution does not represent a policy of the union, as such a policy is simply not to exist under the treaties. at the same time, it is unreasonable and shortsighted to call for the introduction of abortion in arab countries. in those, the overwhelming majority of citizens reject the principle for deep-rooted cultural reasons. the european union is thereby weakening its own position and giving way to other global players, in particular china.
i'm not going to tell you. the quality of water intended for human consumption is a very important issue and affects the daily lives of all citizens. access to drinking water in the world is a big problem. on the other hand, we who have abundant, quality water often use it irrationally, waste it, and degrade it. the statistics on pollution of natural water sources are alarming. i support the resolution and agree that minimum requirements for the quality of drinking water should be set at european union level. member states and the competent control authorities must guarantee that water intended for human consumption does not contain any micro-organisms, parasites or other substances which present a serious threat to human health. i am very happy that in my country, slovakia, we are following the example and we have legislated the protection of water and soil by constitutional law.
i'm not going to tell you. i consider erasmus+ to be one of the most important and best programmes the eu has. that is why my signature is under the amendment to increase the budget for erasmus+ significantly. over the 30 years of its existence, it has positively influenced more than 9 million eu citizens, mainly young people. that's almost twice the population of slovakia, my country. erasmus gives young people every year the opportunity to meet peers from other member states and, in addition to acquiring language skills and expertise, to get to know other cultures. it is also a real bridge to europe. it's important that we talk about his accomplishments more. to bring it closer to young people, to educators, because it is a programme that promotes the idea of a common europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i too would like to thank the commissioner for her opening remarks. for three months now, the european union has been in a situation where one member state does not respect the common rules on the free movement of persons. since january this year, austria has decided to divide eu citizens working in its territory into two categories. those entitled to the full social security contribution and those whose entitlement is restricted. although the european union does not formally recognise second-class workers, as the commissioner has pointed out, one member state has so far tolerated this situation. if workers contribute to the social system in the same way as their neighbours, but receive a relatively lower share of it, can we really speak of a fair single market? i guess we can't. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has opened infringement proceedings against austria and i also consider it extremely important that we return to this matter regularly in the european parliament. because if the commission is unable to act against this state of affairs, we risk damaging the credibility of the european project and its founding principles. i'm afraid this case could serve as an unacceptable inspiration to other countries. commissioner, i believe that the way in which family benefits are indexed in austria will not become a precedent. i agree with you that our single market should be based on fair and equal treatment. however, it will be important for this approach to be reflected in the development of european legislation.
rapporteur of the committee on budgets requested for an opinion. thank you very much, mr president, the draft regulation establishing a programme of customs cooperation replaces the current customs strategy 2020. the aim of this proposal is to provide funding to support projects aimed at modernising and improving the functioning of the customs union. in addition, cooperation between the customs authorities of the participating countries will be improved, in particular in supporting the preparation and uniform implementation of customs legislation and policy, as well as supporting customs cooperation and administrative capacity building, including training and human capital development, and the functioning of european electronic systems. customs cooperation will operate on the basis of capacity building in two areas: first, networking and projects aimed at building competence, including the exchange of good practices and knowledge, and second, information technology capacity building projects will finance new infrastructure and systems. i am pleased that the european parliament has been able to reach an agreement in committee, as the modernised customs rules will help to boost economic activity and growth by strengthening the competitiveness of our industry as well as ensuring greater protection for consumers.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, tomorrow we will be voting on the proposal that the european parliament should ask the court of justice of the european union for an opinion on the ratification of the istanbul convention. the liberal left wants to go to court because it failed to advance its agenda in a fair political process. but this agenda is not about protecting women from violence, it is about trying to impose on member states a new understanding of men and women, even in such sensitive areas as child rearing and freedom of religion and belief. it was out of fear of similar pressures that the slovak parliament last friday rejected the ratification of the istanbul convention by a constitutional majority. if we want to save the european project, we must reject all extremism, including the left-wing one.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, the lead and associated committees, and in particular the rapporteur mr casa and co-rapporteur ms kozłowska‑rajewicz, and of course all the shadow rapporteurs for their hard and dedicated work on this directive. you have really done your utmost to find a good agreement on this important file. reaching an agreement would not have been possible without the goodwill and cooperation from both parliament and the council, and your determination to seek a positive outcome of the negotiations was instrumental. with this directive we aim at increasing women’s participation in the labour market and ensuring that they have the choice to balance family and professional career. we also aim at giving fathers a real chance to be with their children, because nowadays men and women are still forced to juggle their careers and their families, and as we all know this is especially the case for women. we see this in our labour market statistics – the overall employment rate of women is 11.5 percentage points lower than that of men, and this also means that there is a gender pay gap of 16% translating later into a gender pension gap of 36%. there are, of course, those who say that this proposal would impose rules on families and interfere with their personal decisions. allow me to disagree and argue quite the opposite. this directive aims at providing more opportunities, incentives and choices for our citizens to define their own work—life balance, but the final decision remains a choice of the individual parents. thanks to this directive, fathers and mothers will have parental leave of four months, like now, but with the directive two of those four months will be non—transferable and paid at an adequate level set by member states. of course, the commission was even more ambitious but i think we have found a fair compromise in the trilogues. in addition, fathers will have 10 days of paternity leave paid at the level of sick pay, and parents and carers will all have the right to request flexible working arrangements. last but not least, this directive will also respond to one of the major challenges our society is facing: the ageing of the population. by introducing a carer’s leave of five working days, workers can better take care of their relatives. this is the first time a european directive introduces the concept of this kind of carer’s leave. i truly believe that this directive provides concrete improvements to the family and working lives of our citizens. it is transforming the principles of the european pillar of social rights into reality and it’s also taking us a step ahead in the implementation of the united nations sustainable development goals. thank you so much for your hard work.
for the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament we often talk about equality between men and women, about greater participation of women in the workforce, about better reconciliation of family and working life. the legislation we are about to vote on is a concrete instrument that could help achieve these objectives. the proposal is based on the principles of setting minimum standards. this means that it represents a kind of europe-wide minimum, but each member state has enough room to adapt its proposals to best suit its citizens. my own idea of support for mothers and fathers caring for their newborn children, as well as for those who, because of their health or disability, require more intensive care in later life, is somewhat different from what was achieved in the trilogue. in fact, i think she should be more generous in some ways. but there is one big but: this improvement should be left to the member states, who have a free hand to pursue further adjustments. i consider the granting of paternity leave on the occasion of the birth of a child to be a step forward and i am very pleased that fathers will be able to spend their first moments with the baby at home as a family. in slovakia, we have heard for a long time, especially promises of paternity leave. so i'm glad that this amendment will finally lead to their fulfillment. i also appreciate that we have begun to seriously discuss caring for loved ones at european level and that this is also being translated into legislation in the form of parental leave. i consider support for families in europe to be key. and that includes the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you, if there is already a block vote, is it possible that all voting is done electronically, not just those where there are individual electronic votes?
madam president, we have recently learned that in spain the school commission for gender equality has concluded that almost two hundred fairy tales are sexist. it's surprising to me that we can encounter something like this, something like this, because whole generations of european children have grown up hearing in a nice, pleasant, childlike way about what the right values are in life, the values of good and evil, the values that simply build the character of a person who can then stand up for what is right in life and what is wrong in life. i think that there is a very strange situation here and we should be able to guard against such things in our collegiate member states, because it is not right for us to dictate what children should and should not listen to. that's for the parents to decide.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. as the european elections approach, there is increasing talk of the possible involvement of extremist political parties. it's not enough to talk about this on a principled level. we also need to look at how some of our party members here are helping legitimize extremism at home. i can also take my country, slovakia, as an example. there, a member of the epp party, most-bridge, and a member of the socialist party, smer, formed a coalition with a nationalist party, the slovak national party. the result: the two parties, the epp and the socialists, which are problematic in their own right, are completely in league with their nationalist partner. corruption has increased in the country. many say it's what holds the coalition together. the rule of law has been eroded by the murder of a journalist, and now a law has been passed that bans the singing of anthems of other countries, including eu member states, at events, and that legal entities that violate the ban can be fined up to 7,000 euros. this is unacceptable, commissioner, and something must be done.
madam president, today we are hearing a lot of accusations against the state of israel and we are hearing from our colleagues a lot of statements about the terrible consequences that israeli measures are supposedly having on the civilian population. i consider such statements to be ideologically manipulated. but let me ask two fundamental questions about the whole thing. israel has a right as a legitimate state, a right to defend itself. he cannot relinquish air and ground control of the jordan valley and the golan heights. those of you who have been there know that it is a nerve center from which various hostile armies can easily attack the state of israel, and it would be difficult to defend from there. we know from the recent past about the presence of iranian shiite militias in syria and about hezbollah's terrorist operations. it is morally unacceptable for israel to ignore these threats and take no action to ensure its security and the peace of its citizens. i'll say this much about the judea and samaria debate. the numbers speak better than the politics in favor of the israeli presence. israeli companies employ more than 15,000 arabs with an average salary 200% higher than the palestinian authority offers its employees.
rapporteur of the envi committee mr president, consumer safety and environmental protection are the cornerstones of the internal market in goods, which is one of the european union's greatest achievements. i welcome the proposal for a regulation which aims to strengthen compliance with and enforcement of union harmonisation legislation on products. it covers toys, cosmetics and cleaning products, machinery, batteries and accumulators, chemicals, tyres, construction and biocidal products, waste electrical equipment, medical devices and other waste. i think it is unacceptable that the rules that have already been harmonised are being circumvented, as evidenced by the fact that, for example, up to 32% of toys, 58% of electronics and 47% of construction products that have passed inspections did not meet the safety requirements. i therefore support increased checks and increased fines to deter dishonest manufacturers and distributors. the newly established eu test centres must guarantee the reliability and consistency of testing and provide the highest level of expertise in complex areas, such as harmful chemicals that are all too often found in toys or cosmetics when tested.
rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy, requested opinion mr president, online platforms present a huge opportunity for start-ups, small pensions, family or local businesses. they enable them to run a business, to employ people and to provide quality services. we must ensure that the powerful treat them fairly. the compromise reached goes perhaps a little further than i originally proposed in some respects. in my draft opinion for the itre committee, i tried to keep regulation to a minimum. i do not think that parliament should be proposing business models, but rather setting clear rules. nevertheless, i can in good conscience support the compromise reached. i thank the colleagues who supported my idea in the itre committee and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs schaldemos, and our shadow rapporteur, mr juvin.
for the ecr group. mr president, for our generation, for my generation and for the people of central and eastern europe, the fall of the iron curtain was a symbol of a united europe. but maybe for our kids, this will be the year that legislation comes into force that prohibits the sale of foods that have different ingredients under the same brand, because we've seen that in eastern europe. people from western europe have better quality food than the same food produced in our lands in eastern europe, in eastern europe. so i very much hope that the fight for equal quality of food goes to the final. despite the 20,000 machines, the european commission only noticed the problem in 2017, when president juncker said, and i quote: 'the slovaks do not deserve to have less fish in their fish fingers, the czechs less cocoa in their chocolate and the hungarians less meat in their meals.' but the real credit for this kind of political breakthrough goes to the active citizens who called it out, and to all those who have shown by their research that the multinational food companies were simply lying and getting away with it. but such a change in food is only the first step in the same direction in the european union. other areas need to follow, such as matching subsidies for farmers and so on.
mr president, for slovakia and other eastern european countries, the issue of dual quality of products is important. tests have shown that many companies in our region offer products with a different composition and often lower quality under the same name. i know it's not easy to reach an agreement, but the draft interim agreement we're voting on tomorrow is not good. i must say that i am very surprised that he is giving the european commission two years to assess the situation again. and then, if ever, it proposes to ban the sale of products of different quality under the same name. we know that these practices are happening and people are not happy about them. that's why i'm voting for amendments to ban such practices. in the european single market, quality must not be measured by double standards.
madam president, the greatest asset of a common europe is the free movement of persons, goods and services. the mobility of people is indeed considerable, and it does not matter whether it is for work or study. another phenomenon is the cross-border labour force, so we need to coordinate the social security system for them in order to break down administrative barriers, language barriers, and provide maximum assistance and protection to such migrants. i see the coordination of social security systems as a process that we will improve and improve and which will be able to guarantee all workers, without distinction, their rights throughout the european union. coordination is also necessary because some member states are already setting their own social security conditions for workers and their family members, in breach of the eu rules already in force and discriminatory in this respect. as a negative example, i will use austria and its indexation of family allowances.
i would just like to say, mr president, that this parliament and the various political groups have indeed insisted on the principle of the spitzenkandidaten being maintained and applied. it didn't work. the european council has not followed this process and the nominations are the result of a behind-the-scenes policy. what's worse is that there's a lot of talk about geographical representation, about geographical balance. this didn't happen again. and what's worse is that the victims are the countries of the visegrad four, who had a good nominee, a good candidate, is here, sitting here with us. but it has to be said that perhaps such a signal if it is true that this candidate was not elected just because he is the representative of this region, then it is a very bad signal to the voters, it is a bad signal to the citizens of central and eastern europe, and with this we will probably have to somehow know how to stand up to this, also in communication to the citizens, to believe in the democratic principle, to believe in the deepening of participatory democracy in europe.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the european union's motion for a resolution on venezuela, but apart from the cliché phrases and the traditional speeches about the violation of human rights and democracy, i have unfortunately learned nothing new. it is missing the point and the whole resolution is basically a mirror of the toothlessness and weakness of the present european union. it should be made clear that the situation in venezuela is caused by the aggressive foreign policy of the united states of america, as it is in iraq, iran, syria, libya. their secret services and military, fueling conflicts around the world, toppling sovereign nation-states that have so far functioned without much trouble, for oil, for money, for mineral wealth. unfortunately, not a single word is said about this in the report, in the draft resolution, and in this respect the resolution is very weak indeed.
madam president, i am the newly elected member of parliament from the slovak republic, but i must say that i am appalled by the way things are going. the european union has not even started to work properly in this election period, the european institutions are not even up and running yet, and the first thing that is being addressed is how to help even more immigrants get into europe. there are calls among meps for at least what i have seen improving the protection of animals in transport, for the protection of elephants in africa, but nothing, not a word, for the protection of indigenous europeans. let them suffer all this, let them pay all this. you say we should help migrants in the mediterranean because some people drowned there. but humanitarian aid is not the answer in this case, on the contrary, it is a deterioration of the situation, because when these immigrants see that the union is taking care of them like cotton, they will come to europe even more. on the contrary, if we want to prevent people from drowning, from dying in the mediterranean, the only solution is to enable or help the member states on europe's borders to be able to effectively defend their territory, to be able to crack down on smugglers and migrant smugglers, to be able to interrupt the migration routes, and then, if they don't take in any illegal immigrants, then no illegal immigrants will be able to sail to europe and logically no illegal immigrants will be able to perish in the mediterranean. this is the only solution to end this unfortunate illegal immigration crisis. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i didn't say a word about better or worse people, not at all. i'm just saying that the current european union solutions to deal with this illegal immigration are simply failing. and you can see it in us, the anti-immigration meps, that we have a much bigger representation in the european parliament than we have had before, so the old solutions simply don't work, and if we want to help people in africa, let's help them in africa, let's leave them alone, or maybe give some development aid like the union, but certainly immigration is not the solution, because all of africa is not going to fit into europe.
mr president, commissioner, europe's forests, our natural wealth, are at risk. they're threatened not just by the climate crisis, but by developers, by mismanagement, by fire, by deadly chemicals. their devastation is damaging our entire society. we are in a climate emergency, and if we are to limit global warming to one and a half degrees and protect our biodiversity, we really need to protect forest ecosystems. we need rules that stop the spraying of dangerous pesticides on forests, that stop their destruction, that help their restoration, but also ensure that at least a part, at least five per cent of europe's forests remain untouched, that they remain untouched. it's a matter of principle. political interests or short-term economic interests must never prevail. we cannot forget that forests are not just a source of income, they are a source of life and biodiversity. we therefore need a new european strategy on forests, because their viability is the basis of the future.
madam president, we in the european union already take peace for granted and think that we are no longer in danger of a real hot war. but it's not. eighty years ago, europe was engulfed in world war ii, which was said to be, after a 20-year hiatus, a continuation of world war i, whose causes had not been eliminated. the invasion of poland by nazi germany on september 1, 1939, is considered the beginning of world war ii, although it was preceded by other wars. less is said about what preceded the invasion of poland. it was not just the reprehensible ribbentrop-molotov pact, which we will be talking about a lot in the coming days, that caused a lot of bloody and negative events in europe. but let's not forget the munich agreement, the so-called munich dictatorship, which occurred less than a year before the invasion of poland, in which the largest european democracies, britain and france, gave hitler free rein to break up czechoslovakia and take a large chunk of its territory. from then on, hitler, empowered, was able to continue his drang nach osten much more easily. it was treason, and even the sacrifice of democratic czechoslovakia did not prevent war. i would like to say: let's remember this, it's a memorial for us, and in conclusion i just want to emphasize that today war is no longer a profitable business, but that alone does not guarantee us peace. we must continue to work to promote and defend this peace.
madam president, with monetary policy loose, governments are demotivated to make the necessary reforms. when we have a bad economic environment, such as high levels of clientelism, regulations that are not worth working under, or a business environment that is not worth investing in, we politicians must have the expertise and the courage to correct those deficiencies. we cannot rely on loose monetary policy to do this job for us at the micro-economic level in the long term. there is little talk of the negative side effects of loose monetary policy, of the devaluation of savings, of the survival and maintenance of zombie firms and zombie projects, which only in difficult times show how dangerous they are to people. the european central bank would benefit from greater transparency, for example by providing information to at least the european court of auditors so that cost-benefit analyses of ecb policies can also be carried out by independent institutions. i fear that the ecb will not improve its performance even after the change in leadership and i will vote accordingly.
mr. chairman, after listening to and studying the reports of disinformation and hybrid warfare, i've come to believe that we should all put on uniforms, get on planes, attack moscow. i do not think it is right that in this report, as in other reports, russia is considered the primary enemy of the european union. the division of europe into east and west is unacceptable, it is a road to hell. europeans are not demons, europeans are homo sapiens. the great men of europe - charles de gaulle, mikhail gorbachev, john paul ii - have spoken of europe from the urals to the english channel. the division of europe by sanctions, by missiles is unacceptable. it's unacceptable and let's remember the history. millions of jews tortured in concentration camps, millions of slavs tortured, that was the reason for the division of europe into east and west. the european house is one and the same. these are unacceptable news stories because they're for militants, militant-minded people, and you know what that's led to in history.
mr president, democracy presupposes and promotes freedom, tolerance and pluralism of opinion. but when we have attempts to replace democracy with other authoritarian forms of government or to change the geopolitical orientation of a sovereign state, the line of tolerance is clearly crossed. paradoxically, unlimited tolerance eventually leads to the disappearance of tolerance. i would ask the perhaps paradoxical question here: if we voted in this parliament on whether democracy means freedom to lie or whether lying is not part of freedom of speech, what would the result be? we must not be naive and we must be clear about the seriousness of threats from third parties. bulgaria is just one of the countries that in 2015 during the last local elections, the websites of the central election commission and other key electoral institutions were attacked. but this is far from the only destabilising attempt by third countries in our societies to drive a wedge in the unity of the european union. in my country, hundreds of anonymous websites with no clear ownership, organizations without clear funding, thousands of fake social media accounts are waging a coordinated information war against the european union, abusing the most sensitive topics for people, such as religion, traditions and values. democracy must have the tools to defend itself. i welcome and call for serious resources to protect and overcome these types of hybrid threats. the president agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 171 (8))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, you come from bulgaria, i come from romania. of course i understand perfectly what you said. the theme is very important. my question is: as a former mep, do you see solutions in solving the problem at hand? on the other hand, freedom of speech, elimination of interference in the electoral act. what are your concrete proposals so that we can adopt them, because if we debate and do not find solutions, we will find ourselves in the same situation next year.
blue-card answer. – yes, this is a general question about what we are going do together. only with coordinated actions, together with the commission, the council and the member states, can we achieve some limitation of this disinformation campaign from third countries, but also from inside the european union. the right step forward is to ask the platforms to follow codes of conduct, to support good objective journalism, for journalists to have professional training on this, and many things, but we also need resources. democracy needs to have an immune system.
mr president, today we call for tougher action at european level to defend our elections against foreign interference and manipulation and to win the fight against offline and online disinformation. we are doing so because the facts indicate that it is actually happening. and i should indicate to everyone in the house, including new members, that we have been doing this for some months now. the commissioner indicated that action is already being taken, the presidency is joining us, and what we in our group want to happen today is a call for a special committee to deepen this action. we are doing this because our member states are not resilient enough. we have two big problems, which in the next few seconds i will explain. our citizens are voting in elections where we have far—right parties – i see it in my own country – who are being funded and receiving loans from foreign state actors. secondly, we have deep electoral interference. offline electoral safeguards are needed, and the banning of profiling for electoral purposes, social media platforms shared by bots need to be removed and fake accounts need to be removed. these practical actions need to happen and need to happen now.
mr president, the interference of foreign actors in democratic elections is not new today, it is not a new threat, we have already seen several elections where these disinformation campaigns have intervened in order to divide society, to polarize it and thus influence voter preferences. that does not mean that we can accept it, and i am glad that both the finnish presidency and the commission are going to continue to work on it. because it's really something that threatens the very essence of democracy, because without meaningful debate, without fact-based debate, there is no democracy. but at the same time, it has to be said that the real risk is not just a few conspiracy websites or russian money, but also politicians who are working with disinformation on purpose, using these tactics and this emotion, or in my region, in central europe, even some prime ministers who are publicly repeating conspiracies, working with them and attacking political opponents, or minorities, or the european union, and that is even more toxic for democracy.
- i'm not going to. the president decides on the blue cards. there are clear rules for the procedure for the blue cards. so i turned them down.
mr president, free and fair elections are the foundation of our democracy. we must cherish and protect it. anyone who tries to undermine that foundation must be dealt with harshly. and we're going to have to do a little bit of a shift if we're going to be prepared for a future where our social interaction is going to be even more online than it is now. to a future where new technology like deep fakes make it increasingly difficult to tell the real from the fake, and a future where, if we don't do something, by 2021, people will already be consuming more fake news than real news. there's a lot at stake, and companies like facebook and google are playing a crucial role. or rather, they should play a crucial role. because i don't feel like that cooperation is genuine at this point. it reminds me a little bit of the way i used to do my homework in school: just enough to get out of a felony, but certainly not more than that. you might get away with that in high school math, but in our fight against misinformation, we're going to fall short. so my question is: shouldn't we be much more clear that we're looking at criminal work, that we want those companies to cooperate? should we not move towards a system of regulation, rather than the current half-hearted self-regulation? my question is also, commissioner king, you have already noted that: in many european countries, legislation is being made, legislation is being considered. how do we make sure that the legislation is also aligned so that we don't have to deal with 28 different rules in 28 different countries?
mr president, the manipulation of public opinion by the circulation of fake news on social networks, with increasingly sophisticated and disguised means, is one of the most serious threats to our democracies and an instrument of obscure political interests, sometimes based abroad. the european commission's counter-disinformation plan is taking its first steps and is a good initiative. just as the social media platforms must be held to account and journalists must do their job of reporting accurately and exposing false information, these threats require a response that is appropriate to the circumstances, and in this parliament we also need a special committee to enable us to strengthen the defence of our democracy. that is what this report provides for and that is why we shall vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you mentioned that the last elections were the subject of attempts to destabilise and to interfere by state and non-state actors - several colleagues have spoken of this - without precedent. mr. julian king, you mentioned that there were several tens of thousands of fake accounts in support of vast campaigns of disinformation. mrs věra jourová, mr julian king, you took an initiative in september 2018 with the member states to arm europe against disinformation and cybercrime, but it is not enough. what are the next steps, the next initiatives to strengthen the convergence of national strategies? how can the role and means of the european cybersecurity agency be strengthened to create a european shield? finally, our group supports the creation of a european agency to protect democracies from attack. are you prepared to support such an initiative?
i have already made a statement on this matter and i have been informed of it. it may well be that the person asking the question was mistaken. but let us now proceed with the agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the agenda, mrs anderson has just called this house 'a bureaucratic madhouse'. this is an insult to the european parliament. i ask you to study the protocol and respond accordingly.
for that suggestion and for you to have noticed it, thank you very much, it will happen in this form.
- i'm not going to. i must ask you not to applaud from the gallery. that is not in accordance with the rules of procedure of this house.
mr president, commissioner king, finnish presidency, if you had told us ten years ago, when the lisbon treaty with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union came into force, that the threat of trolls, bots, non-state actors or non-state actors and non-state groups linked to states, such as russia, against democratic processes through interference and poisoning, would have been a priority subject for debate in this european parliament, we would not have believed it. but the threat is real. and it is not neutral or innocent or to be underestimated. it is not neutral, because it encourages the dissemination of extremist and populist speeches. it is not harmless, because it often targets minorities and vulnerable groups. it cannot be underestimated, because it affects not only the member states affected but the union as a whole. and it is the union that has to provide the answer, with the appropriate regulations and resources. that is why we are calling for investments to eliminate fake accounts and to articulate a european response that strengthens democracy and the rule of law. and the instrument is a special committee that investigates thoroughly and draws the consequences and the lessons, and brings them to this house as recommendations.
mr. president, it doesn't matter what faction we're from. i think we all have the same task, and it is right to identify who is the aggressor, who repeatedly resorts to disinformation campaigns that undermine democracy in our nation states, but also within the european union. and we all know that these anti-disinformation campaigns don't originate on mars, or in bolivia, or in india, and so i think we should stick to the facts, and the facts say very clearly that behind these disinformation campaigns is clearly the putin administration, russia under the putin administration. for example, a czech team of experts on countering hybrid threats has released figures that from 2014 to 2016, 16 elections and referendums within the european union were directly influenced by the putin administration, either through state media or through various trolls on social networks. what's worse, these trolls are getting into our national governments and our national parliaments. and so i urge all of you to put aside political correctness and make it very clear that the aggressor in this case, in terms of disinformation, is the putin administration.
mr president, hybrid warfare, and the spread of disinformation and fake news in particular, threaten our democratic institutions across europe. we need free and fair elections, just like we need free and fair referendums, and since the bulk of political campaigns has moved to social media, we have to ensure that the internet is able to face up to the spread of disinformation timely and effectively. as just the most recent hybrid hacker attack on austria illustrates, smaller european democracies are especially vulnerable to foreign interference in national elections and, i should add, the subsequent spread of disinformation as we see it in austria today. at the same time, smaller european democracies possess more limited resources to communicate effectively with global internet platforms about how best to fight against disinformation attacks. therefore, in order to protect democracy across europe, we need a strong and common european political approach in managing our communication and cooperation with social media in our struggle against disinformation campaigns. i therefore urge the commission and also the finnish council presidency to take up this issue seriously. we have to be united in this.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on forest fires in the amazon region (2019/2811 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i believe i am not alone in saying that the matter that is before us today, the forest fires that are currently ravaging the amazon region, is deeply worrying for us all. the fires are a tragedy, not only for the people directly affected but also, more broadly, for our planet and the climate. it cannot be overstated how important preserving the amazon rainforest is for effective global climate action. the amazon rainforest is also uniquely rich and diverse. it is home to one in ten species on earth. deforestation, mainly caused by human action and climate change, is a serious threat. it causes a drastic loss of species and tropical rainforest. these fires are directly related to intentional deforestation. unfortunately, we note with concern that they have been even more severe in recent days in the rainforest of brazil and across the border in bolivia and paraguay. these fires are severely polluting the air, they are killing many species of rainforest plants and animals and they are expelling indigenous people out of their territories. the eu’s leadership in global climate action and the protection of forests are among the priorities of the finnish presidency. forest fires have devastating consequences for human and animal life. we depend on forests to preserve biodiversity, to limit global warming and to provide people with jobs and livelihoods. forests will also make an essential contribution to the eu’s aspirations of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. this house discussed the preparations for the un climate action summit this morning and our debate this afternoon is very relevant to this indeed. despite the actions taken so far at eu level and the commitments undertaken at international level, deforestation and forest degradation remain on the rise. the devastating fires in the amazon region have made the need to step up this effort even more pressing. in april 2019, the council adopted conclusions on the progress made in the implementation of the eu forest strategy. on that occasion, the council stressed the importance of the strategy to ensure the coherence and coordination of the eu and member states’ policies affecting forests and to promote further the sustainable management of forests. the agriculture and fisheries council will hold a debate next month on the need for a new strategy beyond 2020, building on the same principles but also considering the new policy developments at member state, eu and international level. the council and parliament have recently received a long—awaited communication from the commission on stepping up eu action to protect and restore the world’s forests. we will examine in detail the list of priority actions proposed in this report and we look forward to your ideas on this matter. the council is working to provide some feedback to the commission’s communication in the form of council conclusions that we hope to adopt in december 2019. given that drivers of deforestation go beyond the forestry sector, our intention is to involve, in this exercise, policy experts from connected areas such as environment, agriculture and trade. we look forward to your reactions to this communication too and trust that they will make a valuable contribution to the future course of action. let me conclude by underlining that the forest fires in the amazon region are an urgent global crisis which requires an effective international response. close cooperation with the countries of the amazon region is crucial. these countries, such as brazil, have the full right to lead the response but they need to live up to their commitments. i strongly appeal to the countries in the amazon basin and their leaders for urgent action. we are ready to work together with mr bolsonaro and others. the eu is ready to support but we need action now. as the council presidency, finland stands ready to support the eu’s reflection on how it can best contribute. on finland’s initiative, the eu foreign ministers discussed the issue at their informal meeting in helsinki at the end of the august. the foreign ministers agreed on the gravity of the situation and stressed the need for a coordinated and comprehensive eu approach to address the crisis. as the council presidency, we will continue to do our best to contribute to ensuring united, consistent and effective eu action on this matter.
member of the commission. – mr president, today we are facing a global biodiversity and climate crisis which is affecting our lives, it is affecting our economies, and it is also affecting our future. current forest fires across the globe are releasing great amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, deepening that crisis, not only in the amazon, but also in other parts of the world, such as siberia. but the amazon is a unique forest, unique for the oxygen that we breathe, unique for the biodiversity that it hosts and unique for the health of our planet. i am, therefore, grateful that you have put this issue high on your agenda. halting deforestation is key and is essential for three main reasons: to stop biodiversity loss, to address climate change and to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and our commitments under the paris agreement. the degradation and loss of forests have major consequences on stability and security, on human rights, the climate, biodiversity and the health and livelihoods of both local communities and the wider planet. the european commission is helping address the situation in the amazon countries affected by forest fires, and is in regular contact with the relevant authorities, including those in brazil. a number of operational instruments have already been activated to improve the current situation. following bolivia’s request, the emergency response coordination centre has already sent a team of fire-fighting experts to the country. such assistance could be provided to any affected country upon official request. also, the copernicus emergency mapping system has been activated and maps are being produced for the fires in brazil, in bolivia and affected parts of peru and paraguay. these are in the public domain. the european union is already financing development projects which are related to forest and land use in the amazon basin, including in brazil – for a total of eur 128 million – and is planning new actions for a total of eur 28 million. we are in close contact with the chilean authorities and the colombian authorities who have been active in coordinating regional efforts to address the situation. at the recent g7 summit, we were engaged in the preparations for a high—level meeting on the amazon region on the margins of the united nations general assembly. while the immediate priority is fighting wildfires, it is necessary to address the underlying structural causes, such as agricultural expansion. in july, the commission adopted the communication stepping up eu election to protect and restore the world’s forests. the communication outlines a comprehensive set of actions, including support for sustainable land—use practices. this entails working with partner countries to reduce pressures on forests and to encourage forest restoration. for the european union’s part, we are addressing our consumption footprint on land; we are assessing additional demand—side, regulatory and non-regulatory measures to minimise the risk of importing products associated with deforestation and forest degradation. we are also working to improve the availability and the quality of information on forests and commodity supply chains, inter alia, by establishing an eu observatory on deforestation and forest degradation. sound scientific information is an important element of the eu’s strategy; collaboration with partner countries is also key, inter alia, to identifying the long-term economic consequences of further deforestation. the commission is committed to sustained action against deforestation and we stand ready to assist those affected by the recent forest fires in the amazon and across the globe, in any way that we can, and in close cooperation with these countries’ authorities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i want to thank in particular ms tuppurainen. she has particular knowledge on forests so we are very happy that under her presidency we’re having this debate, and indeed the detail which the commissioner has delivered to us. i dare say many of the visitors in the chamber will have seen the forest fires in the amazon. it’s what motivated me to hold this debate and i am glad that the group supported us talking about this issue. it really is a question of how globally we can work together, because no nation on its own can solve this problem. but at a time when nations want to be sovereign, is it possible for multilateralism to be strengthened rather than weakened? and pointing the finger at countries doesn’t help. we have to show where the failings are but also acknowledge where progress has been made. so to brazil, for example, there is action recently around the leticia pact with seven other south american countries, operation law and order guarantee and operation green brazil, but this comes after pressure from the international community. we will all suffer if the amazon dies and it is already under threat. you have outlined that in great detail. i was pleased the commissioner mentioned the need to look at policy coherence around the fact that land is being, if you like, brought into production and forest destroyed for agriculture reasons, and we’ve signed a deal, the mercosur trade agreement, and we must make sure that the climate and biodiversity commitments contained in that deal with our mercosur counterparts are honoured. i think that for us in this house will be key. we do need a carrot and stick approach to this issue. we should also as europeans put our own hands up and say that we have not always valued forests or biodiversity or done the right thing for the environment, and perhaps in that place of humility we can work better with our colleagues in south america and elsewhere, because in the arctic, in indonesia, in the congo basin, there are fires burning, turf fires which are releasing massive amounts of carbon. this debate is timely and i thank all those who take part in it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in the amazon rainforest is a very good one. and that is that the environmental, social and economic impact of this tragedy goes far beyond the amazon basin. the amazon is the lungs of the earth, producing 20% of our planet's oxygen and harbouring more plant species than any other ecosystem. moreover, it is home to over a million indigenous people who have been living there sustainably for generations, and now their natural heritage has to be defended. and i know this reality very well, because i had the great opportunity to spend a month volunteering with non-governmental organizations that support these indigenous communities, who need to have sustainable alternatives to their livelihoods. i can't imagine how you'll find yourselves today after seeing this tragic situation. it is not the first time that the amazon is devoured by flames, it is true, but this year they have increased by more than 80% compared to last year and in protected areas they continue to increase. the search for gold increases deforestation, and the mercury used pollutes the water, air, and food of people and animals. this catastrophe is the result of irresponsible policies, driven by climate change deniers, and we know this all too well. mr. bolsonaro is promoting a new gold rush, with the support of land grabbers, while ignoring environmental protection. to avoid hearing the truth, mr. bolsonaro has fired the heads of the brazilian space research institute and the institute of environment and renewable resources. mr president, this is the point of no return for the amazon and almost 20% of the amazon has already been deforested. because, beyond the environmental drama, we social democrats are also very concerned about the fate of indigenous peoples and their lands. we are witnessing an escalation of violence in indigenous territories across brazil, the assassinations of indigenous leaders and activists, such as emira waiâpi, dilma ferreira silva and claudionor costa da silva. the european union is closely following regional efforts to find solutions and protect both people and the environment. you have the full support of our group and we will continue to collaborate. we call on mr bolsonaro to comply with the international obligations of the paris climate agreement and the environmental clauses set out in the mercosur agreement. if the government turns a deaf ear, it will isolate brazil from the rest of the international community. and i think it's very helpful in this debate to remember an indian proverb: "only when the last tree is dead, the last river is poisoned, the last fish is caught, will we realize that we cannot eat money".
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this summer was a summer of horror with regard to forest fires. we all stood in shock as we watched the amazon burn, but the shock got even bigger when we heard brazilian president bolsonaro blaming it on the ngos who were trying to protect the amazon rainforest, when in reality it was his reckless policies that contributed to the havoc that we saw. but let’s be honest: the forest was not burning only in the amazon. this summer, we saw forests burning from siberia to alaska, destroying precious habitats and, effectively, the earth’s lungs. we have to be clear: forest destruction is a global problem. but it is also time for us to admit that we are part of the problem – that not only our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, but also our own policies, our own trade and our own law enforcement are to blame. it is time to change that. it is time for this house to act. we need to say that the mercosur agreement is a bit problematic as it stands, but it would be very cheap to say, ‘let’s just shoot down the mercosur agreement and everything is solved’. we need to go much deeper. the new incoming commission claims that the european green deal is the top priority. it should not be only about europe; it needs to go beyond that. it needs to impact the entire world. if we are serious about saving our planet, and indeed our civilisation, we need to ensure that our agriculture policies do not contribute to deforestation, because right now they do – also in the amazon. we need to ensure that our trade policies don’t contribute to deforestation, because right now they do. we need to ensure that our energy policies don’t contribute to deforestation, because, also, right now they do. what we need is to change all this – for our own sake, and for the sake of our children.
mr president, since this is an issue of foreign policy i’m going to speak in english. many of you are talking about violations of human rights and some other bad things happening in the indian state of jammu and kashmir. however, we are once again relying only on secondary information because no one here really and truly knows what is happening in india. when i had a debate with the indian ambassador in the slovak republic, i asked him how many times had the indian parliament interfered or condemned any european country for its internal policy. it had never happened and we should do the same. we should respect the sovereignty of india because it’s not our task to interfere in the internal affairs of countries 6 000 kilometres away. we are here to solve the problems of europe, so please, let’s do that.
madam speaker, it's been three years since the brexit referendum. i believe that most of the house was surprised by the outcome because they wanted a different outcome. but there has been support for those who have long seen brussels as the constant culprit of domestic conflicts. but three years after the referendum, the united kingdom is not ready to take responsibility for brexit or responsibility for abandoning it. negotiations are concluded, mr barnier's job is done, the european union has established its position. on the other side of the channel, there are completely different circumstances, political chaos and uncertainty, in a country that has largely undermined the foundations of its parliamentary system and democratic decision-making, in a country whose parliament is suspended today. it's hard to tell the difference between a sensible strategy and a political bluff to avoid responsibility. one thing is certain: whatever happens with brexit, the outcome must not jeopardise the cohesion of the european union that we have successfully achieved on this issue.
madam president, european citizens are in the core dna of this parliament and it is our essential duty to protect them whenever we can. this parliament has always supported the united eu approach to dealing with brexit and its negative consequences for the lives of europeans, and i am glad that the proposed parliamentary declaration maintains the emphasis on the unity of the eu27. however, i do feel it is even more important to maintain the unified european approach to brexit especially now, in order to protect citizens from all eu member states, smaller and larger, who are residing in britain. in particular, we have to be strongly united in our insistence that the uk government exert the utmost effort to offer the settled status to all qualified eu citizens without any unnecessary technical hurdles and political delays. at the same time, we in the eu must be united in facing the potential consequences of a hard brexit for the rights of all european citizens in the uk. however much we strive to avoid a hard brexit, we must be ready to face it together in unity for the sake of equal protection of all eu citizens, should we be confronted with a worst-case scenario of the uk’s departure from the union. let’s remember that the unity of the eu27 has been at the core of our successful negotiations with london and we must, therefore, reinforce it in the run-up to the most difficult decisions on brexit.
in writing many of us think that it would be better for everyone if the united kingdom remained in the eu, but if the british government, relying on the results of a free referendum, wants to see brexit through to the end, then we must democratically respect that will. at the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure that our citizens working and studying in the british isles are as little affected by brexit as possible. we need to ensure that the functioning of the single market is not disrupted and that london meets its financial obligations to the union. we can sympathize with those who want to reverse brexit, but we cannot force the united kingdom to withdraw its request to leave the union. the uk is and will remain an important partner and ally of the european union after its withdrawal. brexit is not a tragedy, even though it is a sad epoch in the history of our european union. please, let's not be alarmed by catastrophic scenarios of food or medicine shortages. a successful brexit can be a good start to a good relationship. as was the case, albeit in a different context, with the division of the former czechoslovakia, when the two new states achieved the best possible relations after the division. but today we don't even know if and under what conditions brexit will happen, and so we have to be prepared for all possible scenarios, including a hard brexit.
madam president, according to data, enormous inequalities in access to the best available diagnosis and treatment for young cancer patients lead to differences in survival of up to 20%. this affects mostly children and adolescents in the central and eastern europe region. sadly it is my country, slovakia, that, according to the who, has the second highest mortality results in europe, with 259 people per 100 000 inhabitants affected. we have tremendous problems with early diagnosis, quality therapy and specialist comprehensive care for small patients, as well as extremely long waiting periods for oncological surgeries and lack of post-treatment care. therefore i call on the commission and member states to facilitate access to the best possible diagnostic and treatment modalities for all young cancer patients within the european union. and last but not least, i kindly ask all my colleagues to support awareness about childhood cancer by wearing the gold ribbon that i sent to you all last week.
madam president, since everyone considers their area of interest to be the most essential, it is common practice to focus only on how much money is spent on what budgetary items. we are less eager to look back and assess what european projects were truly useful and which ones were just a waste of money. we must clearly define the specific objectives to be financed by the european budget and the outcomes expected. for example, the efficiency of the education projects should not be measured by the number of its participants, but by their success after it. let us not be afraid to abolish ineffective programmes so that we have more resources for better programmes. yesterday i exceeded the time limit, hopefully today i compensated for it.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the house for this interesting and fruitful exchange of views. i made several pages of notes on the honourable members’ comments, and today’s debate has shown that we have some different views on specific points but most of us share the common goal of establishing a robust budget for 2020. i will now await parliament’s position on the budget for 2020, as the basis for developing the position on which we will negotiate to reach a final agreement in november. we know that we can count on the commission to act as an honest broker to bridge the gap between our positions and to propose balanced compromise solutions for us to consider. europe as a whole requires a budget which meets the needs of its citizens. this means providing for expenditure that is necessary and, at the same time, taking into account that the burden for taxpayers should be as low as possible. i am confident that, with the full dedication of parliament and the commission, as well as our own, we will be able to reach an agreement in due time. thank you for your attention and comments.
in writing. other i have proposed an increase of eur 6 billion in the 2020 budget of the european union, which my group, the european people's party, supports. in the last year of the current seven-year budgetary cycle, it is particularly important that an adequate amount is made available in regional and rural development to pay the member states' accounts covering the costs of projects already implemented. my country is at the forefront of implementing development programmes, attracting resources, using them efficiently, promoting economic growth and job creation, and serving the interests of the hungarian people. with regard to the last year of the current cycle, it is important to emphasise that the proposal for the next financial framework for 2021-2027 is unacceptable in its current form. the european commission's plan is a double standard and would also significantly reduce regional development and agricultural resources. this is unacceptable for hungary. eu development money is not charity. the hungarian regions are entitled to these resources on the basis of objective criteria. we reject the idea of linking community funds to the so-called rule of law and of punishing regions which are doing well in terms of economic performance and job creation on the basis of false accusations. there is no normative, no rule of law proposal on this, it is a political tool used by the european commission to punish those member states whose policies, the decisions of their governments, the expression of the will of the citizens of that country do not please the european commission. it is inconceivable that hungary would support such a proposal that does not respect the minimum of the rule of law.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the topic of today’s discussion induces reflection on how we can learn from history. the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes across europe in the last century remain a dark chapter in our continent’s history. remembrance is not just remembering. remembrance is about keeping a memory alive so as not to allow ourselves to overlook horrors that have happened in the past. if we are fully to understand the present and shape a better future, an awareness and understanding of the past is crucial. to quote the spanish philosopher george santayana, ‘those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.’ the european union is based on our common values: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. these values are the cornerstone of democratic societies and the very foundation of our european project. our common value base has enabled the longest period of peace in europe. fortunately, younger generations have not suffered under totalitarian regimes, yet there is now a risk that we are taking these common values and principles for granted. as you know, nurturing and strengthening our common values, and the rule of law in particular, is among the top priorities of our presidency. the respect for democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law has a strong symbolic value. it is also crucial for the proper functioning of our societies and the policies of the union. these common values belong to everybody and benefit us all. my feeling is that we should better involve citizens and civil society to create a union of values for all. here i think of a garden: beautiful flowers and trees in perfect shape. as an american historian, robert kagan writes, ‘an organized society, based on rule of law, is like a garden’. the natural order, according to him, is the jungle. and, like a garden, the rule of law needs constant care and protection, otherwise the jungle grows back. a lack of knowledge about the origins of the union and about its core principles increases the risk of disinformation and manipulation. it also prevents citizens from developing informed opinions on the actions that the union takes. on the other hand, knowledge about the diversity, heritage and traditions within the union and its member states promotes respect, understanding and cooperation, which in turn strengthens the common sense of belonging. last week the presidency organised in helsinki a conference on how to ensure the resilience of our societies in a changing european landscape – the interaction between democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. and there was a broad consensus among the participants that shortcomings in respecting our common values make our societies and the union more vulnerable, both internally and externally. today we face a number of challenges that put our open societies at risk, be it through xenophobia, nationalism, disinformation or violent radicalisation, to name just a few. we must remember – in order not to get caught in the catchy and attractive-sounding populist voices which promise simple solutions for complex issues. not only can these promises not be fulfilled, they also discredit our democratic institutions and authorities. the damage of populism to our societies can grow when populists follow the ‘divide and rule’ strategy. they divide our societies into good and bad citizens, us and them, friends and enemies. this undermines a democratic and open political debate, and radicalisation and extremism gain ground. we all need to step up our efforts in preventing intolerance, racism and xenophobia. europe has already paid a heavy price for this phenomenon in the past. the experience of the two world wars taught us not to focus on differences but to create a common space in which to live, study and work. our societies have now been learning over several generations the value of inclusiveness and tolerance. and of course we should not forget the important role of education and the need to teach our children democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and conflict-resolution skills. i’d like to conclude by stressing that europeans need to remember their own history in order to learn from the past and not repeat our mistakes when shaping tomorrow’s europe. by playing our part in a joint effort of protecting the common value base, we are protecting the foundations of our societies and of european integration, peace, security, stability, democracy and prosperity. at the same time we are contributing to a more resilient and sustainable union. as our presidency motto puts it, ‘sustainable europe – sustainable future’. this is the kind of union that we want to leave for future generations. thank you very much for this topical discussion and for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m very glad that this debate has been scheduled because there is no better time to discuss the importance of our collective history in order to build our shared future. in the run-up to, and in the aftermath of, the european elections there has been a lot of debate about what the european union is and what this concept means to our citizens. the thing is, the european union is not just a concept. it is the largest and most tangible political, legal, economic and social project that defines our lives on a daily basis. if you can travel freely today across borders, if you can call abroad for the same price as at home, if you study at a university in another member state and have those credentials recognised, that is because the european union makes this happen. in order truly to appreciate these freedoms and these opportunities, we need to understand where they come from. we need to keep remembering. you see, these accomplishments did not fall from the sky. they were hard fought and hard earned. this year, we commemorate 30 years since the fall of the berlin wall and more than 60 years since the establishment of the very foundations of our common market and union. this union was built on the ashes that fell over our continent in the aftermath of what happened 80 years ago, and which opened a dark chapter in european history: the signature of the molotov-ribbentrop pact between nazi germany and the soviet union on 23 august 1939, dividing our continent and creating suffering for so many europeans under totalitarian regimes. today we enjoy many different freedoms: to travel without barriers, to speak, to write, to protest, to follow any profession and to live or visit wherever we desire. these rights and freedoms were earned and imparted to us by the huge endeavours of a generation that witnessed at first hand the ravages of two catastrophic wars and suffered their dreadful consequences. we should not forget that we, living and growing up in the european union as we know it today, are the only generation that has not experienced a war. we need to continue paying tribute to the struggles of our predecessors. it is vital to appreciate fully the meaning of the fundamental values on which the european union and european democracy are built, and never to take these for granted. in recent years, several challenges have cast a shadow over europe: the financial crisis, migration, terrorism, disinformation campaigns against our elections, brexit, to name just a few. our citizens are rightly worried. unfortunately, these challenges become a pretext for populists and nationalists to gain more ground, claiming that it is by closing ourselves off that we can overcome them. what a naive, irresponsible, dangerous approach! if we have learned one thing from the past – both the distant and the near past – it is that we can only face them together, in trust. the european union was not built on adulation, on us against them or on the idea of the survival of the fittest. it was built on the basis of solidarity, of working together, of sharing responsibilities and of caring for and protecting the more vulnerable and weaker. more than ever, we need to remember these lessons from the past because if we ignore history we are at risk of repeating past mistakes. this is why we need to stimulate activities that keep the memories of the past alive as a means of moving beyond the past and towards building the future together. this should never come at the cost of one’s own country or community: we can be both the europeans and patriots at the same time. that is why we should always strive to reach out to others and make diversity an asset. it is only through collective european actions that we can address citizens’ concerns and meet current challenges and, most importantly, maintain, uphold and strengthen our common european house. this should not necessarily always come from the governments: we want to empower our citizens and civil society too to get involved. the commission has been in the vanguard with its europe for citizens programme, which promotes peace, eu values and the well—being of all. it was set up in the year 2004 with the aim of bringing citizens closer to the european union. it offers funding for projects on the ground, in which the citizens can reflect on the past, participate in shaping the future and engage. remembrance, as one of the strands of the programme, supports initiatives to reflect on the causes of totalitarian regimes and to commemorate reference points in europe’s modern history. raising awareness of remembrance, the common history and our own eu values is critical. projects encourage tolerance, mutual understanding, intercultural dialogue and reconciliation as a means of moving beyond the past and building the future. around 100 000 citizens are directly involved every year in european remembrance projects. in the year 2019, 45 european remembrance projects were selected for financial support for a total amount of eur 3 million. the selected projects will address priorities such as civil society and civic participation under totalitarian regimes, anti—semitism, anti—gypsyism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance, as well as democratic transition and accession to the european union. they will also commemorate major historical turning points in recent european history, such as the 1919 peace treaties, bringing the first world war to an end. an example is the mémorial de la shoah, a project from 2018. thanks to a europe for citizens grant it has evolved into a truly european reference network on the holocaust and other genocides. the mémorial receives more than 250 000 visitors per year. the essence of our programme is to connect citizens. for instance, in early april this year we held, under my auspices, the high—level event ‘europe for citizens – history defines our future’. more than 300 participants from both the general public and the programme attended. together with my colleagues commissioners jourová and crețu, we debated with them a range of topics that are crucial for citizens in engaging with europe. one of them was the diversity of memories in the european union. some countries have gone through specific experiences with colonialism or totalitarian regimes: while there are the facts, there is no single truth in the experience of an individual or a community. the question is: how can we reconcile differing memories, how can we build on this diversity and make it an asset for strengthening the european union? i have trust that supporting remembrance will remain a priority for the new commission. in may 2018, the commission proposed a new instrument – the justice, rights and values fund. this fund will include the justice programme and a new citizens, equality, rights and values programme whereby funding is made available to continue supporting work on remembrance. the new programme will guarantee the continuation of the activities of the current europe for citizens programme. i will also increase the european union’s potential to promote and protect rights in the european union and the european values by encouraging the engagement of all citizens in all aspects of their lives, enabling them to participate in the construction and consolidation of an even closer europe and union. we, the commission and i personally, remain consistently committed to a policy of values and historical responsibility. this is the only way for all europeans, leaders, political parties and citizens, in the future for our common future. thank you for your attention and i look forward to what promises to be a very interesting discussion.
on behalf of the s&d group dear prime minister, dear minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, historical memory is the foundation of our common strong europe. although we all have our own unique histories, we are united as europeans by a common history. in a history marked by the greatest wars of mankind, the death of millions, and brutal nazi, communist, and fascist regimes. occupants have always tried to erase from the occupied peoples the historical memory, the national consciousness, the nationalism. i myself come from a country, lithuania, whose history is painfully marked by forced occupation, machine-gunning, siberian gulags and shattered human destinies. today's debate is another opportunity to remind us that we must not leave history on the sidelines. we must resist any attempt to glorify the actions of communist, fascist and totalitarian regimes and any attempt to downplay the crimes of these particularly brutal regimes. we must combat the growing propaganda and all manifestations of hatred and intolerance. the european day of remembrance, which we commemorate every year, must be more visible and more audible, so that we never forget the price we have paid for freedom, peace and democracy. colleagues, we are strong only when we are united. it is our duty to preserve historical memory and pass it on to future generations.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here. there is, indeed, no future for europe without remembering and being aware of our darkest hours. the molotov-ribbentrop pact with its secret protocols is definitely one of those darkest hours. it may indeed have been the single most brutal and cynical act that europe has ever witnessed, concluded by two of the most repressive totalitarian regimes in our history. obviously, we must never forget the victims and we must never forget the heroes who fought and stood up to tyranny. but we must also never forget that the europe of today came about as a response to the europe of 1939, and that this union of peace, democracy and shared sovereignty was built as a direct counterpoint to totalitarian atrocities and the partitioning of countries by the raw power of tyrants. this very contrast speaks to the core of our identity and who we are as citizens of the eu, because the eu is perhaps the only political body that defines itself not in opposition to other countries, cultures or organisations but in opposition to its own tragic past. what is crucial here is that this is a common history, because the painful experiences of totalitarianism are shared by both western and eastern europeans and by both new and old member states, and this provides a crucial common reference despite the 40 years of division in the cold war. so this is why the european day of remembrance on 23 august is so important for pan—european solidarity. obviously, the main message of that declaration and the resolution we will adopt tomorrow is one of solemn remembrance, but it’s also a message of vigilance against the return of past demons, because what we see today is a dangerous rise in xenophobia and extremism in our societies and member states. this includes anti-semitism and the scapegoating of sexual and other minorities as well as migrants, and the silencing of journalists and critics. it is obviously our responsibility to protect the values of tolerance, openness and democracy. if not for anything else, we owe it to the victims whom we honour today.
madam president, historical awareness is very important for the future of europe. however, they must be assessed objectively, impartially. many have mentioned the molotov-ribbentrop pact of august 23, 1939. we somehow forget that on september 29-30, 1938, the munich agreement was where france, great britain, germany, italy made a deal with hitler and sold my homeland, the original, czechoslovakia. as a result of this agreement, which was the cause of the war and the cause of the treaty, czechoslovakia was occupied from the north by polish troops, from the south by hungarian troops and from the west by german troops, all of them, poles, hungarians and others, it was after this agreement with hitler. but we're not angry about it, we're not going to talk about the past, because that's the road to hell. we as slovaks and the proud slovak nation will not succumb to misinformation either. i am proud that only one nation, like the slovaks, does not need any fight against disinformation, because my nation is so wise, so clever and so intelligent that it will not succumb to disinformation from either the east or the west, or america or china. let us assess history objectively, let us not distort it, let us not create hostility, let us not create hostility between russia and the rest of the world, because this hostility can, precisely this attitude of the european union and some of them, including my colleagues from slovakia, lead to another 6 million dead jews, 25 million slavs and a bunch of dead poor germans in the ruined dresden and so on. let's be respectful to each other. the best way to defeat an enemy is to become his friend. that's all i wanted to say.
madam president, dear ms mogherini, the war is on again. you were talking mostly about turkey, but what do you think about the fact that the us practically left behind the kurds to the aggression of turkey? this could, of course, cause a new influx of immigrants also into europe. isn’t this also a warning for european countries: that we shouldn’t rely on an alliance with the us, because one day we could also be left behind when we need it the most? shouldn’t european countries rely more on their own defences instead?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if we want to help bring peace to ukraine, the first thing we have to do is to open up about how this all started. that the secret services and ngos, financed from brussels, but mainly from washington, took advantage of the frustration of ordinary ukrainians, the frustration of oligarchy, of corruption, and organized first the maidan and then the civil war. that after five years of conflict, after thousands of dead, after billions of euros and dollars spent, the situation in ukraine is worse than ever and peace is unthinkable. why would you do that? i'll tell you without censorship. simply because the ukrainians are of no interest to anyone in this conflict. it's all about western companies winning new markets and weakening russia's position in europe. if the european union really wants to help ukraine, the best way to do it is to let the ukrainians decide for themselves, to communicate with ukraine, to trade with ukraine, because the ukrainians know how to decide for themselves, they are not stupid.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. it is an honour to sit in the presence of great britons who have chosen to be free and independent of the european union. i say this because i am a slav and i am a brother of both the great russian nation and the great ukrainian nation. this is a nation that occupies one-sixth of the world. i can advise you on how to handle this. stop meddling with these great nations in their problems. they'll figure it out themselves. and that's the best way to do it. they are not small nations, they are heroic great nations, living together for a thousand years. stop interfering in the affairs of the slavs. elephants are not stupid. the slavs are as proud as the british, and we'll solve our problems ourselves. that's all i have to say.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this european budget will be as important as any before it. the challenges facing europe, and indeed the planet, are existential. the climate crisis, the destruction of biodiversity from the amazon to slovakia's forests, the tsunami of plastic waste, but also the cocktail of toxic substances all around us. but this threat is also a huge opportunity. and this budget has to match that. it's not just about what percentage of our money we spend on climate or biodiversity. it has to be basic and it has to be ambitious enough. just as important is policy coherence, so that the left hand knows what the right hand is doing. we cannot claim to be protecting the climate and nature while at the same time subsidizing its destruction. and it still does. europe needs renewable energy, industry that does not pollute the environment, agriculture that protects farmers, nature and animals. this budget is not about us. this budget is about whether our children have a future. and we must not let them down.
madam president, we should stop talking about the employment rates that have been achieved and we should look at the alarming studies telling us that we are not ready for the challenges of an ageing population and the climate and digital transformations. the cost of these transformations will come and we cannot deal with it only by increasing funds. according to the oecd, around 17% of jobs in the eu are at risk of being automated. the jobs threat from automation ranges from less than 10% in finland to a shocking 33% in slovakia, my country. one-third of the eu labour force has almost no digital skills. transitions will affect the most vulnerable people in our societies. what needs to be done? innovation, productivity growth and social rights are closely connected. social europe will flourish only if our economic policies create a perfect environment for it. we have the same goal, so i think we should stop basing our decisions on ideologies or political slogans, and we should start with data-based policymaking.
i'm sorry, mr. chairman, but you know the rules. one for one.
mr president, it appears, according to your rule, that this house has voted against allowing a debate – just a debate – in relation to the atrocious actions of the spanish state in catalonia. i think people deserve to know the margin by which members of this house voted on this matter.
i have received a request from the gue/ngl group to include the council and commission statements on the situation of migrants in bosnia, in particular in bihać, as the sixth item on the agenda for this afternoon, following the council statement on the situation regarding the disclosure of income tax information by certain companies and branches - country-by-country public relations. the sitting should therefore be extended until 10 p.m.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our request relates to a humanitarian disaster, namely in the vučjak refugee camp near bihać in northern bosnia. the mayor of bihać announced over the weekend that the food and water supply in the refugee camp will be stopped, as well as medical care, after unsuccessful attempts to get financial support from his government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment. bihać has already approached the eu and has not been heard. i want to say that the difficult situation in vučjak has been known for about a year. we have already discussed this here, and the commissioner for human rights has recently sounded the alarm about the humanitarian disaster in this area. i ask you, therefore, to give urgent aid, and we must do it now! we therefore ask the commission and the council to make statements on this.
i have received a request from the greens/efa group that the discussion of the council and commission statements on the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania be concluded with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the decision taken by the council on friday or thursday evening not to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania seems to us to be a very worrying signal. it is clear to us that these countries are destined to join the european union and that it would be a very bad signal to refuse to open these negotiations, given that they will take some time anyway. i think it is absolutely essential that our parliament should be extremely clear on this. of course, a debate can do that, but a resolution would be a much stronger expression of our position on the conclusions adopted by the council last week. we therefore urge this parliament to adopt this resolution.
i have received a request from the gue/ngl group that the discussion of the council and commission statements on the un high level political declaration on universal health coverage be concluded with a resolution, which will be voted on at the november partsession.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is precisely the gue/ngl group that is proposing that the debate we are having on wednesday evening on universal health coverage, on the political declaration of the united nations high level meeting on universal health coverage, be accompanied by a resolution which we would vote on at the november partsession.
i have received a request from the id group to put on the agenda the council and commission statements on the persecution of christians in algeria, before the council and commission statements on the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania.
i have received a request from the ppe group that the debate on uganda, and in particular the proposal for a law introducing the death penalty for homosexual acts, be withdrawn from the agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, ‘urgency’ implies that something is imminent – that something negative is about to happen. when this point was placed on the agenda, we double-checked with our people in kampala and we were told that there is no intention on the part of the parliament or government of uganda, at this stage, to reintroduce this cruel legislation which they had in place earlier and which was abandoned after international protests. to our mind, there is no urgency as we speak, but i have known colleagues from this country for many years and i am afraid that if we discuss issues which are not on their agenda and give the impression that we are arguing about them, we would have just the opposite effect to what we intended. our suggestion is: let us be vigilant as to what might happen in future, but currently there is definitely no urgency, as no legislation is planned.
mr president, i of course understand the reasoning by the epp group as they were also the ones proposing this urgency, and we share the fact that the title is no longer correct. we are against withdrawal, but for changing the title into a correct one, changing it into the ‘situation of lgbti in uganda’ – because there’s enough to be concerned about in an urgency.
there was a request from mr. piri to change the title, and so if you can specify it better, mr. piri.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the new title would be ‘the situation of lgbti in uganda’.
i have received a request from the renew group to postpone the vote on the two objections under rule 112 to wednesday.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like – pursuant to rule 112 – to ask for the move of the bee guidance vote from thursday to wednesday, because this is a topic which is very high on the public agenda but also needs a qualified majority to be able to pass.
madam president, right-wing extremism is the worst thing that man as a human being could create. i don't want my western european friends to be angry with me, but i have to be objective. our western european friends are, historically, the founders of the ideologies of right-wing extremism, but also of left-wing extremism. they are the founders of the ideologies of fascism, nazism, anti-semitism, racial superiority, two world wars, the guillotines, colonialism, atomic bombs, and concentration camps. the slavic peoples, including my own, were never the ideological creators of these perverse, dirty and disgusting ideologies, and if they were, they quickly got rid of them. unless the european union accepts the human and historically non-extremist society of the slavic peoples into the social and cultural fabric of europe, and unless europe is united from vladivostok to lisbon, the threat of right-wing extremism will still be there, and even the most stringent measures will not help it. and now listen to me all: slovakia has the highest number of righteous among the nations awards per capita. i am proud to be slovak.
commissioner, of course, all forms of extremism must be condemned, and if someone shoots at families with children for political or religious reasons, he is in any case a madman. i don't understand why we're talking about right-wing extremism as if there were no other extremist movements. let's just put the same meter on everybody. why don't you also talk about jihadists, about islamic extremists who are also committing huge crimes in europe, committing terrorist attacks shouting allah akbar, creating no-go zones where even the police don't dare go anymore, and the european union is silent. why don't you talk about the other side, about the left-wing extremism, about the street movement antifa, who attack politicians from the opposite spectrum, whether they are colleagues from the afd or others. in slovakia, a young blogger was attacked last week for not agreeing with their conservative views. and this is completely overlooked. commissioner, this is worse than totality.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, let me just say that the proposed changes to the criminal law in poland, which de facto criminalise and penalise the sexual education of youngsters, is not just an example of a particularly hyper-ideological and retrograde proposal, it’s also going against the very basic notions of modern education. in fact, like my colleague, i find it quite impossible that, in 21st-century europe, teachers would actually be threatened with prison time for explaining the practice and benefits of condoms to youngsters. normally, governments in europe – and all across the world – do their utmost to invest in education: education which is free from ideology and equips children with the necessary knowledge and skills to navigate through their professional and social lives. what we see here is actually the very opposite: depriving children of this very right. the authors of this legislation claim that it is intended to protect children and young people from sexual deprivation. the problem is that it might in fact cause the very opposite because, without proper knowledge about sexual abuse by potential victims, it may well be that sexual violence will increase as a result, because making sexuality taboo is typically an invitation for paedophiles. any attempt to effectively ban sexual education would therefore be to the detriment of the children’s well—being and safety. the other negative consequence would be to scare off and discourage professional teachers from doing their job, given the harsh penalties involved. this would send a very bad signal to the entire profession and create an atmosphere of fear and persecution. perhaps, as some might suggest, these harsh sentences would not in fact be applied and the law would be interpreted in a fairly lenient fashion. however, given the aggressive campaign of scapegoating and hatred against, say, the lgbti community in poland over the past few months, it is very difficult to believe these assurances. therefore, from my perspective, it would be best if the proposal is taken back.
i am glad that this debate is taking place, but i am very sorry that the representative of the group of the european people's party has made such an untimely intervention, because i think it is inappropriate to use the floods and the terrible consequences that have occurred for partisan purposes because spain faces elections on 10 november. all the administrations are doing their job: the regional and local authorities, the spanish government, which has already estimated an initial value, and we have to wait to know the result of all the damage that has been caused in order to make a correct estimate. i would like to point out that climate change is primarily responsible for the phenomenon known as the 'cold drop', which is devastating the east of spain, the mediterranean regions - catalonia, the balearic islands, murcia, almeria - my region, the valencian community - but also the inland regions - la rioja, navarre and madrid - and is the consequence of a climate change which we all have a responsibility to combat. what we are asking for now is the need for all of us to act together so that all the resources and all the instruments, including those of the european union, are put at the service of the citizens. it is the citizens who have to feel that their institutions are at their side when they need them most, to recover all that they have lost, and of course to invest - and for that i appeal to the need for european funds - so that this never happens again. because it happens too often: we cannot have drought in the mediterranean, the consequences of desertification and at the same time these phenomena of rainfall which prevent water from being used to combat drought and end up being lost at sea. it is time to prioritise investments so that we never suffer from situations like this again, and so that the warnings that occurred tonight, also in the regions that were devastated, do not have such consequences in the future.
mr president, on 2 october a hurricane in the azores, an outermost region, caused damage worth more than eur 330 million. the azores are made up of nine islands. on one of the islands, the island of flores, the seaport, which is vital to the provision of essential goods, was destroyed, causing losses of about 190 million euros. i note that today, 21 days after this debate, the portuguese government, after having approved this debate, announced quantified support to deal with the losses. it is important that everyone does his part and that the european commission, if requested, is quick, is swift. solidarity is essential and it is practiced, not preached. and if it is requested either for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund or for the reprogramming of portugal 2020 funds, i am sure that the european commission will act accordingly and quickly. portugal has over 13 billion euros to be implemented in portugal 2020. there is no lack of resources to meet the needs of this region, to meet the needs of the people who have suffered heavy losses. and we must never forget that we are talking about an outermost region which needs additional support for an exceptional situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i brought this up in my speech to this house two weeks ago, a few days after hurricane lorenzo passed through the azores. at that time the traces of destruction were clearly visible on several islands and the high losses resulting from this phenomenon could already be guessed. we now know that the public and private losses exceed eur 330 million, a sum which is particularly significant for a small region with its dual insularity and its outermost periphery. we also know that these losses have affected all of society, from housing to trade and services, port infrastructure and ships, farms and crops. i welcome the efforts at regional level, both in preventing further damage and in the measures already put in place to support the affected populations, but i would once again ask for support to ensure effective european solidarity with the azores, support which must be, i repeat, real, rapid and effective.
mr president, commissioner, the passage of hurricane lorenzo through the azores caused significant destruction and very heavy damage, destruction of houses, displacement of a number of people, destruction of infrastructure, telecommunications, energy and other infrastructure, destruction of a commercial port essential for the supply of fuel and foodstuffs to the islands of flores and corvo. the catastrophe requires that aid be given to the people affected, particularly those who have been displaced, and that the damaged infrastructure be restored, which will certainly require the mobilisation of hundreds of millions of euros. this support must be mobilised as soon as possible. it is also time to reflect on the adequacy of the european union's instruments, particularly at budgetary level, to deal with such situations. we think there is a need and there is room for improvement. in addition to the solidarity fund, which has been improved in the past and can still be improved, the answer cannot be to reprogram the structural funds. because we need them, and to cover up a place, we're gonna uncover it from the others. so the answer has to go beyond that. for exceptional and unforeseen situations we must provide for exceptional support.
mr president, i would like to start with expressing my sincere condolences and sympathies to those families who lost their loved ones in the floods in southern spain. i know the solidarity fund is not a rapid response instrument, i know that, but i believe that there is a lot of room to improve its response time. i know that a lot has been invested in efforts to improve the way the fund is functioning and the time it needs to send help to the regions that are affected by floods or other natural disasters, but i believe solidarity is solidarity when it is in time. help is help when it’s in time. so, there is – i think – a lot still to be done, and i think the current european commissioner and the next european commissioner could work on that. i believe cohesion policy could be designed in order to help in such cases but in a balanced manner, because endless reprogramming of operational programmes could put in danger our strategic goals. so the solidarity fund could work much better and i think this parliament could contribute to the further improvement of the fund in order to help citizens.
mr. president, i am not from spain or portugal, but i have come forward precisely because i know that the impact of climate change and extreme drought and extreme flooding, as we are faced with across the european union, not just the european union, but all the continents, is a matter for all political parties. no political party should take credit for this, but i am glad that we are discussing this here, and it appears that the solidarity fund should work more effectively, more quickly, and this is certainly a task for the new european commission, which must take action on this matter, as colleagues here are calling for and demanding. i think prevention is always better. prevention is always cheaper and more effective, and that is why i agree that the european union is a leader in the fight against climate change and must force those global players and also use cohesion funds, afforestation and other measures that can mitigate or eliminate some of the impacts of extreme fluctuations.
mr president, the catalan crisis is not a matter of public policy: there is a total rejection of violence. that is why it will not be solved by sentences, and even less if the right to demonstrate is threatened or parliamentary inviolability is ignored. we are faced with a political question which is blocked and which needs to create new spaces for dialogue and solutions. in a democracy, nothing is possible without law, but law cannot be the boundary to prevent a vital debate. that's what's blocking the situation today. that is why i encourage the union to help 'reset' the catalan crisis, which is a european problem. the union is no wonder a specialist in bringing diversity together and knows full well that commitment requires involvement, dialogue, empathy, mutual recognition and civic and political courage - values which are a deterrent to those who think more about short-term returns than about solving problems.
mr president, in my home country, slovakia, people are getting some really shocking information these days about the links between organised crime, the courts, the prosecution and politics. every day, the evidence of the recordings obtained during the investigation of the murder of jan kuciak leaks to the public, and from them emerges the image of a kidnapped state where justice can really be bought and actually quite cheaply, directly from the general prosecutor's office or the supreme court. and it also shows that government politicians have been covering up these things for years, and guaranteeing impunity to the actors in these cases. that's only changed in recent months, thanks to the courage of investigators and journalists, and thanks to public pressure and civil protest. clearly, all these cases need to be thoroughly investigated. and that is not the role of the european union. the fight for a just and fair society must be fought by slovakia alone. but the failure of justice in one european union member state is a problem for the whole european union, because without mutual trust, neither the free market nor any other policy can work. so it's something that the european union has to address.
mr. chairman, my speech today will not be in the best interest of my home country. but i have to tell you what is happening in slovakia. we suspected that slovakia was corrupt and lacked the rule of law. what we have seen in the last few days has shocked us. slovakia faces a gorilla corruption case that has been uninvestigated for seven years. politicians even say it doesn't exist. however, the public has heard the recording from the safe of the suspect in the murder of martina and jan kuciak. he also has a tape of him doing business with a former attorney general, whom he's been cursing, and interfering with the investigation. the abominations from kočner's phone show that decisions of judges and state authorities were made for bribes. we all heard it, but no one was hurt. judges, prosecutors, politicians all stayed in their seats, even without charges being laid. today there is no doubt that what is happening in slovakia is directly related to the murder of ján and martina. corrupt police, prosecutors and judges cannot stay in their jobs. i ask all concerned here in strasbourg and brussels, let's do everything to clean up our slovakia together.
rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs requested for an opinion madam president, in my report on next year's budget for the empl committee, i focused on two priorities. the first is that we really need to start with the european fund projects, measuring results, not just outputs. the second is that we need to start focusing on value for money. if we have a problem with youth unemployment in our member states, we must not just solve it by creating some kind of fund into which we will now permanently 'load' money, but we must focus on starting to eliminate the causes of youth unemployment in individual member states. we should also start using data more, because in the case of the eurofund retraining projects, for example, if 300 people participate in a 'fast-track' project, it does not mean that these people will be employed. and the practice shows us that they don't get jobs, but they go back to settlements, for example. i'm talking about the socially excluded roma communities. and that's the last thing i want to say. we have to start doing really not just on paper social inclusion. to leave socially excluded communities, such as the roma community, to do so without including them in the open labour market, i consider at this point a huge luxury that we can no longer afford.
madam president, i have studied the draft budget very carefully. what struck me most was that out of the 154 billion budget, 10 billion euros went to bureaucracy, to administration. when you think about it, it's a huge laughingstock for people, especially from small countries. for example, slovaks like that have to work for ten years and pay membership fees to the union in order to feed the entire bureaucratic apparatus for one year. i also don't understand why the asylum and migration fund is getting twice as much money as frontex. and then there's 300 million for that turkey. it really seems like you don't want to solve the immigration crisis, but rather, you want to make a living. and you probably also want to feed the regional disparities, because again, we have 43 billion euros in agricultural subsidies, most of which will go back to the big countries. farmers in small countries like central europe simply have no chance of competing with those western farmers under such unfair conditions. they're going bankrupt, and our stores have to import food from abroad. do not be surprised, then, that the mood towards the european union is worsening.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we live in a europe where right-wing nationalists and far-right extremists are moving their positions forward. some of us are particularly vulnerable to their racism, their sexism, their homophobia, their funcophobia, their hatred and their threats. in this situation, the countries and the eu institutions - the council, the commission, the parliament - must do everything we can and you can to take every opportunity to stand up to these forces. and this is what it's all about. we must at some point stand up to those who want to exclude, discriminate and oppress some of us. one way of doing this is by adopting the horizontal anti-discrimination directive. an antidiscrimination directive does not solve all injustices equality does not come with a brushstroke. but it is a step in the right direction, and it is just what we need at a time when so much is going wrong. it's been over ten years. it's been over ten years and we'll be keeping an eye on you now. because this is not gonna last. we need to look in another direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of non-discrimination is enshrined in european union law and is expressly mentioned in many provisions of the treaties. nevertheless, we have been waiting for more than ten years for a horizontal directive to be adopted which would prohibit all forms of discrimination, including outside the workplace. discrimination based on religion or personal belief, disability, age or sexual orientation and relating to access to public goods and services, including housing, education and social protection. this question is therefore closely linked not only to the enjoyment of fundamental rights which affect millions of european citizens, but also to the full development of the human person. how can we then think of combating the inequalities and disparities in treatment which are still widespread in the member states if, at european level, we are unable to establish minimum standards to ensure more effective and uniform protection against discriminatory acts? well, it is time we had legislation and policies to promote equality both formally and in substance, to have a more economically and socially cohesive europe.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner's initiative to go back to the draft anti-discrimination directive that has been in the council for 10 years, and i think it is time to reopen the debate. on the other hand, as a person who was responsible for implementing anti-discrimination legislation in the czech republic, which concerned employment, i know that this is a subject that arouses enormous emotions. besides, the fact that he's been on the council for 10 years is proof that the road isn't easy. so congratulations on your courage, and i think we need, we need, a general anti-discrimination law. on the other hand, the specific form of the directive is likely to be the subject of further political debate. if after 10 years it is not to be slightly modified, because in anti-discrimination regulations, as they say, the devil is buried in the detail, that means that the modification really helps those in need, that it has a general character, not only concerns the social affairs of employees, but that on the other hand it also does not lead to being abused, that it does not lead to the construction of an egalitarian society. it is to lead to the building of a society that gives everyone equal opportunities, and these are the topics that need to be debated again in the european union's institutions, both at the level of the council, which is now blocking the directive politically, not actually debating its content, and perhaps also at the level of parliament, because in the end it should be a modern text, and in my opinion it must recognize changes from the form that was started to be discussed 10 years ago.
mr president, how long? not how long i’m going to be here in the european union, but for how long to speak? one minute? somebody got the joke. this is a very special directive, president, and i really congratulate the finnish presidency for putting it on the epsco council on thursday. it’s not 10 years; it’s 11 years i think that we’ve waited for this to happen. i’m a veteran of the race equality directive. i’ve seen the gender directive. but this is very special; this is horizontal. when we have the european union we currently have and we say we are a european union of values, to have such a directive on such big areas such as age discrimination, disability, lgbt, is very special. we know, and the commissioner has said, that it is a question of implementation and, as our colleague just mentioned, implementing such complex legislation is also very difficult. i want to leave these two messages for colleagues today. good anti-discrimination legislation changes society and helps the individual, and good horizontal eu discrimination legislation will change the european union if we publicise it and we implement it. this is the prospect that we have here, and i hope we take this opportunity in hand.
mr president, equality must be and is at the heart of what defines the european union as a political project. yet, we have millions of european citizens suffering every day with discrimination in terms of access to public services, or in other aspects of social life. the european union is failing those citizens because of the blockage of this horizontal directive for the past 10 years. in my own country, in slovakia, deep prejudice and discrimination, often multiple, persist against the roma minority, and especially against roma women. likewise, the lgbti community still lacks full legal and political recognition. more importantly, the situation of minorities is getting more and more fragile, given the more hostile political climate in some member states, where minorities are often targeted and scapegoated by xenophobic and extremist political forces. this is why it is all the more important that this horizontal initiative is again given a try, and that the european union pushes back against discrimination.
mr. president, i condemn the turkish aggression in northern syria. this invasion has no mandate from the un security council, nor the consent of syria, which is a legitimate subject of international law. this turkish aggression must be met with strong opposition from the european parliament. the consequences of this aggression will be borne by the states of the european union, including waves of migration and the arrival of various terrorist groups in europe. if the european union does not want to be a political dwarf, it must, firstly, necessarily lift the sanctions imposed on syria by the european union, and secondly, restore diplomatic relations with syria, which is on the verge of declaring victory, and free it from the interference of some imperialist powers in its internal affairs. if we are to be fair, let us condemn the presence of all foreign forces in syria that are there in violation of international law. in this simple way, we will prevent the killing of syrian people.
madam president, i would like to say that i used to be very proud of the european union project, but now i am ashamed of how the european union has acted as an alibi in the conflict in northern syria and how we have literally thrown the kurds overboard. we criticize trump for withdrawing his troops from the territory of northern syria, but the middle east is the nearby territory of the european union, not the united states. so i ask you, where are our troops? look at the glaring weakness of our foreign and security policy. we stayed at the statistical level. the kurds are consulting with assad, the west is completely out of the game by its own cowardice. erdogan is consulting with putin, not with his nato allies. putin is laughing, and we are quietly trembling in front of the new wave of refugees and letting erdogan blackmail us. where are all the strongmen now, including the leaders of the v4 countries, who talk about how to solve problems where they arise? they are silent and waiting for the new wave of refugees to become a topic on which they can win a new national election populist. shame on us, shame on the european union for how we are acting as alibis in the kurdistan conflict.
madam president, today we are sending a strong and clear message of our absolute rejection of turkey's military invasion of north-eastern syria, a decision which flouts international law and our un or nato mechanisms, which has very serious humanitarian consequences, which returns the war to a stabilized area, and which provokes, or pursues - not only provokes - population displacements to reconfigure the population ethnically, which has been done and is being done with the complicity of the united states and has as its victims the kurds, those allies - until now - to fight and defeat isis. and, furthermore, with clear benefits for al-assad and putin in the region. europe must not only reject intervention; it must respond firmly using our tools: banning arms sales to turkey, using our market 'from which turkey benefits' and making decisions on an accession process which has lost all meaning for turkey and the european union.
madam president, it’s been said already but we need to repeat it: the turkish invasion into north—eastern syria threatens the stability of the whole region. it strengthens those who want to ignite a much larger conflict in the middle east. it is therefore in our vital interest – the vital interest of the eu and our member states – to fight for the territorial integrity of syria. we cannot allow the redrawing of borders in a forceful way. we cannot allow the precedents from the annexation of crimea to be repeated in syria today. this is extremely important, and we have to resist it. therefore, an arms embargo, financial sanctions and the suspension of eu accession talks with turkey is the least we can do immediately, and we should do it now. more broadly, we do need to fight for european values in our neighbourhood. we cannot allow the increasing turkish and russian presence in our vicinity. this is our vital european strategic interest.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. climate change is a very emotional issue. we see it every friday at the fridays for future student demonstrations. what is clear in the public debate, but also in the debate today, is that the question is not whether we need to do something about climate change - some people ask this question - but we are always asking the questions of what and how. it is very important to me that we stop demonizing certain industries or players. i want to work towards highlighting the positive elements against climate change and promoting the potentials. only action on climate change that is supported by society will be successful. an example from agriculture: farmers are frustrated that they are always being put on the spot and that they have negative effects on the climate. they are protesting all over europe, and yesterday they were protesting here in front of parliament. in all this debate, it is often forgotten that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors with great potential to capture carbon. all our european forests store at least 10% of our european emissions. that is why we must actively promote and shape carbon avoidance, and above all carbon sequestration. i could imagine a similar incentive mechanism for europe. new zealand has been ahead of the curve. let us praise our farmers for what they do and not ridicule them.
madam president, tackling the world’s climate emergency must be europe’s defining issue: renewables, energy efficiency, circular economy, agriculture, transport, oceans, climate-proofing trade deals, digitalisation, energy poverty, regional regeneration, sustainable investment, embracing our stakeholders, research experts and our citizens. a profound european green new deal that leads the world, works across the portfolio of every commissioner and every eu government. we are facing catastrophic climate chaos unless as europe we take immediate and joined-up holistic action, with a just transition that works for every european citizen and leaves no worker, no young woman and no region behind. for the air that we breathe, we need to listen to our young people. we cannot wait any longer. we need to deliver an eu-wide climate emergency now. (applause)
madam president, we have indeed an emergency on our hands, but we don’t act like there is one. it’s been long in coming and we kept on ignoring it, but now it’s here, both in climate as well as in biodiversity. yet what do we see? just today we had to object to protect the bees, to protect the biodiversity, to what our governments and the member states have been doing. this house has been elected this year with a very strong mandate to act on climate and biodiversity. what we need now is to hold the governments – the member states – accountable, because on one hand, we say that we act on the climate, we’re going to phase out coal, and on the other hand, we actually use public money to export coal-fired power plants to third countries. on one hand, we say we’re going to deal with the switch to renewables, and on the other hand we have projects of common interest building oil pipelines. we really need a fundamental change and we really need to hold our own government accountable. i will, and i hope that you will too. and so will the public.
madam president, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the excellent work it has done over the years. the court of auditors, after examining the programmes of the european funds, finds that the performance indicators currently used in relation to the budget of the european union do not always give a true picture of the actual progress made in achieving the objectives of european policies. i consider the conclusions of the european court of auditors to be fundamental. the european budget is not just about moving money from one pocket to another. the aim is to ensure that every euro invested returns the maximum benefit in the form of better services for european citizens. a similar picture is given by the european court of auditors and the oecd in its recent study, which shows that the european union has the most information on the budget and its performance. this is the ranking of countries on this graph: the european union is first, but in terms of using this information, this hard data, we're already at the bottom. it's very important that we get higher.
in writing. we are losing many lives in the mediterranean, including children. it is not enough to simply step up rescue operations, but we must find a more comprehensive solution acceptable to all eu countries. i therefore abstained from voting on a resolution calling for a strengthening of search and rescue operations in the mediterranean, the text of which was ultimately not adopted. this may seem like a bad signal to some people towards refugees fighting for their lives, but let's use the situation to put the text in a more balanced form. i am not against the principle of solidarity when it comes to saving human lives, and i am also in favour of strengthening the rescue mechanism. however, i do not think that asking frontex to share data on its activities with every ship in the mediterranean is a happy solution, as this could paradoxically contribute to facilitating their criminal activity and increasing the number of victims, rather than dismantling smuggling networks. i am not opposed to a fairer redistribution mechanism either, but it should also take account of the specificities of each country and be the result of consensus. i am against the criminalisation of ngos helping refugees save lives, but they too must respect the norms of international law and in particular the rules that we should agree on across the eu.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on opening accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania (2019/2883(rsp)). just before i open the debate, i wish to let you know that if you want to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, it’s possible to use the standard registration and the new system, details of which are on your desk. you can register electronically, and therefore you need your voting cards, and indeed similarly with catch-the-eye, you can do so, not towards the end of the debate but perhaps at any time during the debate, please register.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, members of parliament, as you very well know, the progress of north macedonia and albania on their european path has been debated in the council for quite some time. i know you are equally aware that the council has not yet been able to reach an agreement on the commission’s recommendations to open accession negotiations with the republic of north macedonia and with albania. in the meantime, both countries have worked hard to advance in their reforms. the council’s conclusions, adopted last june, tasked us to make clear and substantive decisions on both countries, at the latest in october. as the president of the general affairs council, i must say that i am deeply disappointed that we failed to do so in our meeting last week. despite all efforts, the european council was not able to do this either. i must admit that this lack of unanimity on reaching these concrete decisions can be seen as a setback for the eu’s role in the western balkans and for our enlargement policy, which remains a strategic investment in peace, stability and development in europe. but it definitely does not mean that we will stop here. this just means that even more efforts are needed. i think it’s important to stress that there are no differing views in the council regarding our commitment to the european perspective of the western balkans. the importance of maintaining and even strengthening the eu’s engagement in the western balkans is shared by all member states. it is also clear for everyone in the eu that the region is in our courtyard and, we need to continue to do our best to help take further the necessary reform processes. the european council had a long debate on the issue last week, and in the end, the leaders agreed to revert to the issue of enlargement before the western balkans summit in zagreb in may 2020. at the council, we are ready to do our part. the presidency remains committed to doing what it can in order to explore a path towards a clear and substantive outcome. i would also like to reiterate how important it is that both north macedonia and albania continue to make concrete progress on reforms. reforms are needed to progress in the eu approximation, but most importantly, these are reforms that the people of both of these countries call for. it is also worth repeating that committing to european values remains essential for all partners aspiring to gain eu membership. let me conclude by reiterating our deep appreciation for north macedonia, for the courageous step it took with the signing of the historic prespa agreement and the change of the country’s name. the presidency also welcomes the political will to move forward, which has been demonstrated constantly by the government in albania, despite a polarised political atmosphere. i am convinced that soon enough the time will come for these efforts to be rewarded. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, last thursday at the european council, eu leaders failed to live up to their commitment to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. the overwhelming majority of members states were ready to give the green light for opening negotiations. regrettably, not all member states were in a position to take a decision on the day. may i use the opportunity here in the european parliament to thank in particular minister tuppurainen for her personal determination and efforts to find a solution a few days before at the general affairs council, but as we know, it was not possible. but i would like, in the presence of the members of the european parliament, to thank you for all your efforts, together with your team. the fact that it was not possible to get an agreement is indeed a matter of deep disappointment. let me repeat what i said last week in luxembourg after the first, so to say, failure: this is not a moment of glory for the european union. we are now at an impasse. let us not forget that there is unanimity about one thing: the western balkans need many more courageous decisions such as prespa. following our failure to deliver last week, we really have to think hard about how to answer the following questions: where are our incentives to catalyse more such breakthroughs? where is our commitment and support to those who take the gravest political risks? the least we owe to the countries of the western balkans is honesty. the enlargement policy is enshrined in the treaty, and it’s not about being nice with our neighbours; it’s about our rendezvous with history, completing the unification process that began long ago. and it’s, above all, in our geostrategic interests.european union member states now need to clarify how serious their commitment is to the western balkans’ european union integration. north macedonia and albania are not to blame for this situation. both countries did what they were asked to do – and even more, and our reports on the countries acknowledge this. impressive reforms have been achieved in albania and north macedonia in the rule of law area: judicial reform, fight against corruption and organised crime. the vetting process in albania is a particular achievement. moreover, the prespa agreement was a truly extraordinary achievement based on leadership, courage and determination to overcome obstacles of the past for the sake of a bright future. and the same applies for the good neighbourly agreement between north macedonia and bulgaria. our responsibility now is to stand with these countries, whose citizens are deeply disappointed. they have the right to feel short-changed but should not give up hope. our commitment to the european union perspective of the western balkans remains unchanged. their european union integration is, and remains, a strategic important policy goal, in our mutual interest. that’s why the european union will revert to this issue before the european union-western balkans leaders’ summit in zagreb in may 2020. i continue to hope for a positive outcome then. the commission will continue to support albania and north macedonia in every way it can, to ensure that the eu reforms continue to be implemented, in the interest of their citizens, and to continue to help prepare them for their future in the european union. i think now it’s time really to stand with the citizens of these countries and of the whole region and to support them. i can fully understand their disappointment and partly their discouragement, but again, we have to assist them to overcome the situation, and from the side of the commission we will do everything to do this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european people’s party (ppe) is deeply disappointed with the inability of the council to start negotiations with north macedonia and albania. we have a common understanding that the council’s decision sends a terrible geopolitical signal that is contrary to the interests of the european union in the region. we cannot wait until the zagreb summit next year and we should try to repair this mistake as soon as possible. for sure this blockage will have political consequences, not only in the two countries but also in the whole region. the eu is not consistent in its messages. the bulgarian presidency put back the topic of enlargement of the eu agenda, after a gap of 15 years after the thessaloniki summit. our six western balkan partners are european countries and it is in our own interest to integrate them today rather than tomorrow. other geopolitical players like russia, turkey, china and saudi arabia are keen to increase their influence in the absence of a vital european perspective. the eu must regain the trust of the citizens of this region as soon as possible. furthermore, we must invest enough funds in effective communication tools to counter the propaganda against the european union in the western balkans. and yes indeed, both countries need to deliver still in many political fields, for example, the implementation of the good neighbourly relations agreement between sofia and skopje is unsatisfactory. sometimes i wonder why it is only under pressure from outside that countries are willing to wake up from decades of manipulation and falsification of historical facts and events. this is similarly valid for other bilateral issues in the region, and indeed eu integration cannot depend only on the bravery of one person to solve all long-standing problems, and if the opposition come to power, to destroy it. we would like to urge the three countries in the council to lift their blockage and allow the start of the eu accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania, which we know will continue for a long time and we need very soon to regain the trust of the young generation in the eu.
mr kovatchev, will you accept a blue card? just a moment please. i’m being advised – and indeed it is true – that we normally don’t take blue cards during the first round of speakers so, in order to keep with tradition, i’m going to have to refuse your request for a blue card.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let me also welcome mr xhaferi, the speaker of the north macedonian parliament here in our house today. i wish i could give a different speech today. north macedonia and albania have worked hard over the past years to meet all the conditionality criteria and to implement difficult and necessary reforms. both countries kept their promise and fulfilled their share. it was now time for the eu to deliver and to open accession negotiations. north macedonia has been a candidate for a total of 14 years and the commission has given the green light for accession talks for the past 10 years. the toughest negotiations, on its name, led to the historic prespa agreement and it took real political courage and real leadership, by both north macedonia and greece, to put an end to a 27-year dispute. as sad as it is to say, this is exactly what european leaders did not have – or perhaps, precisely, the french president did not have. mr macron did not show the same leadership and the same political courage. the eu had the opportunity to finally show responsibility and political maturity but we failed, miserably, and this failure damages the image of the european union in the western balkans. the eu often raises its voice on issues where, sadly, we are unable to make a difference. the european council made us silent on the only political choice where we could have made a difference and i’m sorry to say it but the zagreb summit in may 2020 is too little and too late.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, despite a huge majority of support by the member states, for the third time in 16 months, the european council failed to agree on whether to open accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. this is a very disappointing decision that could have the consequences of an historic mistake. we are not able to deliver on what we have promised several times already and this failure to move forward with the membership talks could undermine the eu’s credibility and destabilise the region. moreover, following the setback, the prime minister of north macedonia has called snap elections – a move that could lead to the eu losing one of its biggest allies in the region. therefore, i urge the eu leaders to consider this decision as soon as possible. north macedonia and albania have continuously proved that they are part of the european family, especially during the migrant crisis, and they have fulfilled all conditions to start accession talks. countries need to be assessed on their own merit based on objective criteria. as a member coming from a country that had to go through the accession negotiations not that long a time ago, i well know that the process is bureaucratic and based on legal provisions, but sometimes it’s also led by political sentiments. if you want to revise the current format for accession negotiations, it has to be done in time for the may 2020 eu-western balkans summit in zagreb, otherwise we risk losing the european dream of the region and turning the western balkans into the grey zone of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a famous frenchman once said of a certain kind of political decision: it is worse than a crime, it is a mistake. the council's decision to refuse to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania is a mistake of historical proportions. i thank donald tusk, jean-claude juncker, mr hahn or mrs tuppurainen and all of you, dear colleagues, who have found clear critical words. despite all the anger at the way the eu has broken its word here for the first time, despite all the disappointment at its strategic shortsightedness, despite all the shame towards the people of north macedonia and albania whose hopes the council is destroying, i do not want to criticize here. i want to look ahead and say directly to president macron: mr president, you have isolated yourself very much on this issue, but the european parliament is ready to build a bridge for you. if you read our resolution carefully, you will see that we are willing to cooperate in the reform of the accession process that you are calling for. let us do this together, but please correct immediately the mistake that north macedonia and albania have to stay out of the door just because we have not yet completely cleaned up at home.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, five years ago, mr juncker’s statement on accession and eu enlargement resulted in a real crisis in our relations with the western balkans. the commissioner knows best how much effort is needed from him personally, his staff, ourselves, and the political leaders of the eu member states, to reverse this negative process. both countries, albania and north macedonia, deserve negotiations. they have fully fulfilled all the criteria after many years of waiting. and now, at the very beginning of the next legislature, comes a slap from the council. i understand the same set of countries – president macron of france, backed by the netherlands and denmark – pose probably the next crisis in our relationship with the western balkans. this crisis may be really dangerous so this decision should be reversed as soon as possible.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the western balkans is the most vulnerable place in europe. it’s not by chance that the first war – the yugoslavian war – after the end of the second world war started there. we have to protect that part of our body – of the european body. recently, north macedonia took a historic step. together with the greek government, they made the historic prespa agreement, fighting against the populists and nationalists. and instead of rewarding mr zaev, the prime minister, giving him a hand, we are throwing him into political turmoil. people are frustrated in north macedonia. and why do we do that? because instead of exporting european ideas, democracy, solidarity, we’re exporting our internal political problems and conflicts. there is a message to be addressed to mr macron – two messages. one: he should have been here to listen to almost all the parties. and the second is that we have to stop playing narrow-minded political games with small countries. small countries need our help. they are small countries but they are decent countries.
the fact that this institution has launched the western balkans strategy and strongly supported and promoted the alignment of north macedonia and albania's measures with the european acquis explains my personal and my group's great disappointment with the council conclusions of last week. after north macedonia and albania had worked hard on historic compromises and after they had met all the criteria for opening accession negotiations, we all hoped that their hard work would be rewarded with positive signals. but instead, these countries got a cold shower and a blockade. in the process of aligning with eu practices, north macedonia and albania have often had to reject the enticing promises of foreign actors. the council decision therefore not only sends a negative message to the entire region but also opens the door for other players to fill the space left untouched by the union. we hereby emphasise, madam president, that this non-decision is a strategic mistake and that it has a negative impact on the union's credibility and undermines the efforts made by the european parliament in its relations with the countries of south east europe, and i thank commissioner hahn for his efforts. furthermore, we are sadly witnessing a lack of vision on the part of certain members of the council to be brave enough to complete the peace-building process that only european integration can bring, a process that was started by their predecessors, including the late president jacques chirac, whom i knew personally, a visionary and a man of honour, 19 years ago in zagreb. the croatian presidency must play a key role and show the european union that this is about peace and stability in the european union in the future, which concerns croatia most of all.
madam president, the absence of negotiations with north macedonia and albania is a historic mistake of the european union and it should be emphasised. once again, the opening of negotiations with these countries has been blocked by internal political reasons and the dilemmas of a small number of members. especially by those who, paradoxically, want to rebuild europe. north macedonia and albania have met all the requirements we put before them. it is incredible that the european union does not recognize the historical value and political courage of skopje to finally resolve its chronic problems with its neighbors, as well as numerous, above all, judicial reforms of tirana. the opening of accession negotiations is only the beginning of a process that has become longer and more complex with each enlargement. it is totally unacceptable that these countries should become hostages to attempts to reform the european union itself. so far, reform and enlargement of the european union have been parallel processes. the european union consensus on enlargement should not be renewed. what is needed is a clear vision translated into concrete action. and that before it's too late because there are many actors interested in expanding their interests in this area, and those interests are not compatible with our values. both countries deserve membership negotiations, and the european union can only renew itself and become globally credible if it sets an example. first in your immediate neighborhood, then elsewhere.
madam president, what can we do for the good looks of a country where the average monthly salary is around 400 euros! this is the only explanation for the commission's insistence on enlargement to albania and north macedonia. the economic argument would therefore be sufficient to cover up many shortcomings, and there are many in albania. infiltrated by radical islam, this muslim-majority country is one of the regions in europe with the highest concentration of jihadists. the namazgâh mosque, financed by turkey to become the largest in the balkans, is a testament to erdogan's influence. the country is also plagued by trafficking of all kinds, with transparency international having downgraded its corruption index. albania is therefore not europe-oriented any more than north macedonia is. do their people aspire to it, by the way? in macedonia, the ridiculously low turnout in the referendum on the prespa agreement and membership of the european union shows that it is not. let us therefore have the courage to close the chapter on enlargement and the billions of euros scandalously spent on pre-accession aid.
colleagues, before we move to our next speaker, i want to make a welcoming address here to visitors that we have in the plenary. we have the speaker of the parliament of the republic of north macedonia, his excellency mr talat xhaferi, and we have the pleasure to welcome him in the diplomatic gallery this evening. (applause) you’re very welcome to attend this debate on the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. it is indeed an honour to welcome you to this debate and we wish you some very fruitful meetings here in the european parliament.
we now continue with the debate on the council and commission statements on opening accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania (2019/2883(rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision, or rather the failure, of the european council to postpone for the umpteenth time the opening of accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia is a historic mistake. this is an unjustified postponement after the repeated recommendations of the commission and the position of our parliament, which is embarrassing for the eu and frustrating for our partners who now have every right to question our real intentions. albania and especially north macedonia have made many sacrifices and reforms to get to this point. the latter even gave up its original name and reached an historic agreement with greece, an agreement which until a few years ago seemed simply impossible. ladies and gentlemen, our credibility is at stake. we promised these countries that they would be judged individually on their merits. the failure to deliver on promises has disillusioned the entire region, set a worrying precedent and opened the doors of the balkans to our strategic competitors. while erdogan visits serbia and strengthens his ties with belgrade, north macedonia is plunging into further political crisis. to our albanian and north macedonian friends - i greet president xhaferi, whom i had the honour of meeting - i say 'courage', you are and will be part of this european family. it is an unstoppable historical process which cannot be stopped even by the council's hesitations.
madam president, last week’s decision in the european council shook the foundations of one of europe’s most successful policies. what has been a source of long-standing consensus has now become an open geopolitical problem. as the standing rapporteur for serbia, i can tell you that the failure to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania is our bigger political failure to commit credibly to enlargement. a credible offer for eu membership to western balkan countries is in our joint and strategic european interest. let me respond clearly to voices from france, the netherlands, denmark, that question or even reject enlargement. if we want a stronger and internationally respected union, we must try for a decisive voice and influence in our immediate neighbourhood. the disillusionment today in the western balkans is enormous. the north macedonians even changed the name of their country to get the green light from the european union. let’s remember, enlargement has brought unification and an unprecedented sense of security to europe. however, our security is not a given, especially when we look at turkey’s and russia’s actions in our neighbourhoods. we do need successful, stable, resilient, democratic, and most of all european, western balkans. the success of south—eastern europe on its path into the european union will also be our european success. failure is not an option.
mr president, the european council has to make a new and strategic decision because it was a mistake not to open the accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. the prospect of joining the eu has been a driving force behind the changes we have seen in those countries. north macedonia was led to believe that solving the name issue would give it the possibility to move forward with moving closer to the eu. although ultimately countries should move forward with domestic reforms because of their own necessity, one cannot ignore the fact that future prospects of joining the eu have been a driving force for these reforms as well. i believe the eu should at least open the accession negotiations with both countries to encourage them to continue with domestic reforms, to align themselves more with the eu and its policies, and to have reliable partners in a variety of global issues. failure to open the accession negotiations may unfortunately also contribute to the possibility of an external influence in the western balkan region. it is hard to see the eu succeed in a more global arena if it cannot be successful in its immediate neighbourhood.
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the european perspective of the western balkans must remain open both because it is a factor of stability in the region and because it is a democratic lever for the necessary modernisation of these countries. it is also necessary to make the governments in tirana and skopje aware that they are not treated with different criteria for the opening of accession negotiations than the countries that preceded them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but the opposite is true, we have had repeated violations in recent years. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the previous government, through the prespes agreement, accepted the link between the application of the composite name, erga omnes, to all, and the opening of the chapters during the accession process. the accession process is in fact essential to the existence of the compound name, which has been the country's passport to nato.
mr president, the indecision of the european council from last week sends a completely wrong message to the people of the western balkans, not only to the citizens of north macedonia and albania. the most wrong message is that the european union cannot be trusted. whatever sacrifice and efforts you make, you can be betrayed, not even for serious interests but for the public opinion polls at this moment in one country. yes, the sun will keep rising in north macedonia and albania, but the eu’s influence as a global and regional actor will continue to set as a consequence. while we are waiting for the grand european reforms promised by mr macron, others will gladly fill the vacuum created by the decision of the council. we will not renew europe by disrespecting our own commitments and holding key eu policies as a hostage to nationalistic and egoistic political interests. finally, we have to start repairing the damage made last week as of tomorrow.
mr president, i have to say i agree with the commissioner and many of my colleagues in saying that last week’s indecision in the council was a grave strategic mistake and that the problem now is that the eu’s credibility internationally is being damaged. because we profess to be the champions of the rules-based international order, and yet we have just thrown doubt on our own rules which we have created for the western balkan enlargement process, because the enlargement is based on conditionality, on clear objective criteria and assessment. we can certainly debate how to improve it, but we cannot just move the goalposts on a political whim. the consequences are already being felt today with the political crisis in northern macedonia and the blame game in in albania. i have to say i sympathise with some of the concerns over the rule of law, given the track record of hungary and others, but it should not be an excuse to stop enlargement. rather, it should be an impetus to strengthen the rule of law in the union and for the enlargement countries.
mr president, at the time i signed up for this one-minute speech, i had no idea that north macedonia and albania would be dealt a severe blow by the european union and that accession negotiations would not be opened with these states. the reason was the disagreement of the so-called big players in the eu, who want to decide everything and everyone. first we forced albania into nato so that american boys could play war games, then we forced the macedonians to change their country's name, and now we've literally kicked them out. i suppose we'll make the macedonians clear all the roofs so that the american helicopters can land, and then we'll negotiate with them. dear friends from western europe! you have no problem taking in several million people from afghanistan to libya. but you have a big problem accepting even a slav christian nation of less than two million into europe. simply put, you treat the slavic and christian nations as second-class people, thanks, of course, to the slavic traitors and collaborators from our own ranks who have become so humiliated and fallen so low that they wear the eu flag on their jackets instead of the flag of their homeland.
madam president, the convention on the rights of the child has been in force for over 30 years. the european commission and the european parliament have adopted a number of resolutions and recommendations during this period. we are building a social europe, and yet the most vulnerable are being lost somewhere in it. the children. in the european union, one in four children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in five eu member states, 90% of roma children in slums are at direct risk of poverty and are discriminated against in special schools. children with disabilities in many member states cannot attend school at all because inclusive education does not work. a child oncology patient in slovakia does not have the same access to treatment as a child oncology patient in, for example, germany. in some member states, children with autism wait up to nine months for a diagnosis and have almost no access to therapy. why have a treaty when a woman, a single mother, with a sick child, often descends to a state of material need? and they're worried about having enough to eat tomorrow. we're not doing enough, and we need to do better. we must start measuring the results of social measures in the individual member states of the european union, and then start building a europe in which children have real rights, not just paper rights.
madam president, as a former judge who has dealt in practice with the rights of minors and the duties of parents and the state towards them, i'm going to start off a little unconventional. every man has the right to live in partnership with a man or a woman. every woman has the right to live in partnership with a man or a woman. it depends on their decision. however, and this is very important, every child has the right to a father and a mother. every child has a natural right to live in the family of a man and a woman. we are obliged to do everything to ensure that this inalienable right, as expressed in the convention on the rights of the child, as expressed in the laws of national parliaments, is never and never taken away from him.
mr president, the convention on the rights of the child was adopted 30 years ago, but even after 30 years, in fact in many countries, this right is not being respected. there is still a large number of children whose rights are not adequately protected. among these children are many roma children. many of these children are still denied the right to access a quality and inclusive education. the education systems in some countries, such as slovakia, are unable to educate roma children in such a way that they subsequently acquire a qualification. these children attend special classes and schools that are designed for children with mental disabilities. but these children have no mental disability. their handicap is that they come from poor families. we can't afford to ignore any child just because they come from poor backgrounds. these children are not only denied the right to education, but also the right to a life of dignity, because without education they will not be able to fulfil their potential and to participate in the labour market. the european union cannot afford to waste this potential. the european commission is currently conducting administrative proceedings against three countries. these proceedings concern discrimination against roma children in education. slovakia is also threatened with legal action before the european court of justice in luxembourg unless it submits a concrete plan to the european commission within two months on how it intends to end this situation. it is our role and duty, also on the european parliament's floor, to think about the welfare of these children and to constantly remind governments, such as mine in slovakia, that it is their responsibility to create equal opportunities for all citizens, including children from roma communities.
madam president, attacks on journalists are a direct threat to democracy. the murder of jan kuciak even shows that journalists are in danger of health and life. the man suspected of ordering kuciak's murder has reached slovakia's top officials, prosecutors, judges and politicians. he used the entire state apparatus, including the police, to sift through journalists, to get all the information about them, even to find out where their children go to school, who they meet. there were dozens of journalists, one of whom, unfortunately, with the help of state-sponsored vetting, was horribly killed. thanks to europol and public pressure after the murder of jan kuciak and his girlfriend, the most people took to the streets in slovakia since the gentle revolution. thanks to this public pressure, we have murder suspects behind bars, but we haven't won yet. journalists in slovakia continue to be the target of attacks. before his death, kuciak wrote that the mafia controls the entire state, police, prosecutors, judges and even politicians. they've got judges to make judgments, politicians to subsidize, police and prosecutors to investigate their own cases. the investigation of the murder case so far confirms that kuciak was right. ordinary people in slovakia who read today how easily the mafia promoted its interests through the state apparatus are desperate, they have lost faith in the rule of law. slovakia is in the middle of important parliamentary elections that will decide whether we return to the path of democracy, where journalists will feel safe, or we follow in the footsteps of the mafia, which has shown us for several months that it can work with fascists. we all have to stand with the journalists. they must not be endangered in their work in any country. it's our duty to stand by them, even when they criticize us as politicians.
madam president, many of us in this period remember the velvet revolution, the moment when communism fell in czechoslovakia. under communism, we didn't even realize what we were missing. we didn't know what was behind the iron curtain. we didn't know freedom, we lived in isolation and dictatorship. thirty years ago, during the soft revolution, i was 17 years old and i was one of the students who had been locked in the square. at the time, many of us had no idea how this would turn out. but the desire for freedom and democracy was much greater than the fear. we can't dictate to people how to live. we can't stop them from going to church, from professing their faith, we can't shut people up. freedom is one of the most important values we have to protect. thirty years ago, young people opened the way to democracy. we installed a communist dictatorship. but democracy must be protected at all times. the dictation may return. fascist and extremist parties are gaining strength again. they're abusing the freedom of speech that democracy gives them to kick it down, break it down and replace it with totalitarianism. extremists have changed from uniforms to suits and military boots to loafers. those who have even fastened their cross jackets to their backs are spreading hatred and commanding fascism. democracy is under threat in many countries today. the fascists are again preaching the ideology of a superior race. if hitler had won the war, i wouldn't be here today because i'm a roma. if we don't want to lose our democracy, we can't forget our history.
madam president, 14,000 people in a camp for 3,000. three deaths from the overcrowded conditions in september. 500 people for each latrine. this is what defines the objective of european necropolitics and its use as a warning to migrants. this is what we saw when we visited the camp of moriah and, despite that, we still hear the same hypocrisy and no solution. hypocrisy like that of the greek minister, declaring that his new policy will be centered on genuine concern for migrants. he forgot to mention here in parliament that the period of detention is increasing with his reform, that access to public healthcare is being restricted and that the asylum application process is going to be a nightmare. closing moria and all the camps, working at the root of the problems, ensuring safe routes, stopping fuelling war conflicts, respecting humanitarian law and not doing business with borders are the only possible solutions. no more winter with moria open. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card question. – (inaudible) ... previous speaker because i don’t agree with his speech. já opravdu chci zareagovat na to, co řekl předchozí řečník, protože já nemohu souhlasit s tím, že předchozí řecká vláda udělala všechno pro to, aby bylo rychlé azylové řízení, aby v řecku nebyly nedoprovázené děti na ulicích. bohužel jsou. sleduji to více než tři roky, tuto situaci, a oceňuji novou řeckou vládu, které udělala konkrétní opatření. já o nich budu mluvit. pane poslanče, víte, kolik nedoprovázených dětí se nachází v aténách a v dalších místech a co udělala bývalá řecká vláda, aby tyto děti nebyly na těchto ulicích? odpovězte mi.
the answer is 'blue card'. look, i've been to lesbos and moriah several times. i've been in 2015, i've been in 2017 and i've been in 2019. you know what the difference is? the moria camp was already a disastrous camp; now, with the new government, it is much worse. there used to be 7,000 people, now there's 14,000. you used to be able to go to the public health, now you can't. three doctors - three doctors! - for fourteen thousand people; five hundred people for each latrine. that is what the present greek government is doing. and that's not washing the face of the current government either. the problem is not only greece's, the problem is european. and we are not giving results, we are not giving solutions and the solution cannot be to continue to shelter turkey and a deal of shame.
madam president, the situation on the greek islands has deteriorated. why would you do that? because turkey wants to send refugees back to syria, where there's still war, so those people are afraid. turkey has broken its agreement with eu member states to detain and integrate refugees, despite the european union paying turkey nearly six billion euros for this activity. it is necessary that turkey take back illegal refugees who are not eligible for asylum and who will be relocated from the islands to the mainland, if necessary. i therefore call on the commission and the council at this time to negotiate with turkey without delay to continue cooperation on this matter, so that turkey can comply with the agreement. i think this is vital not only for greece but for the whole european union and i agree with my colleagues here that this is a european problem, not just a turkish problem. sir, i was at the moria hotspot a year and a half ago, in april 2018. there were 6,000 refugees there at the time, and even then, the situation there was not suitable for children, for people who were handicapped in some way. it was a hotspot, overcrowded, 14,000 people, which is what it is now, i can't even imagine, and i understand the new greek government wanting to move these people to the mainland to have human conditions. the letter from minister chryssochoidis, who asked the member states to take in two and a half thousand unaccompanied children, also shows that the government is becoming more active, and i believe that the czech republic will join in and help the children. i asked our minister of the interior and civil society in the czech republic ask the minister of the czech republic to help unaccompanied children from greece... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, minister tuppurainen, commissioner avramopoulos, between winter and hell, there has not been a single moment of respite in the last four years for the challenge that the refugees in moria, lesbos, pose to the whole of the european union. for a camp of 2,800 places, 17,000 are crowded, thousands of them unaccompanied minors. but they are a grain of sand in the desert of the crisis, which is not humanitarian, nor of refugees, but political because of the absence of solidarity, which is a binding mandate since ten years ago, since the treaty of lisbon, flagrantly breached by the member states, which have left greece, as later italy and also the spanish coast, to their fate. it is an untenable situation which leads to attempts to outsource the issue of the necessary care for refugees to turkey, to libya, not to mention the nightmare of having to negotiate again with bashar al-assad in syria and, of course, the tragedy that there has been no response that is at the level of european law itself, which is binding. we need an effective response, a human response, but above all a response that is consistent with the european law in force. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to move to another member state.
madam president, we know that the responsibility lies with the council, but mr avramopoulos, you cannot have the nerve to say that we are talking about having a model of how to manage asylum and refuge with tact and humanity, taking moria as a reality. we have left the greeks alone, we have left greece alone and we have left thousands and thousands of people in hell. you were in moria in 2015; you wouldn't be more than two hours. is he back? how dare you speak of a model "with tact and humanity" when there are 15,000 people in moria suffering from cold, without latrines, at risk of violence? we have to shut down moria. it's a post-traumatic stress factory. we cannot leave people there for months and months, cold and hungry, without giving them a solution - whatever it is. it doesn't matter which model we decide, whether it's right-wing or left-wing. moria cannot exist, mr avramopoulos, do not use the word again.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i want to ask my colleague the following question: does he think we should treat all refugees equally? we have to play with the lives of children, women, shouldn't we see the cause, why do these people come, come for pleasure? or do they come by necessity? they have to leave and some die on the way or are thrown into the sea. how do you think we should treat people's lives? should we treat it by nationality, by age, by gender, or should we think about people's lives?
madam president, the situation on the greek islands is catastrophic, and that is about the only thing we can agree on in this house. but it is not new and it is only getting worse, as we have been denouncing for years. and the commission is trying to remind you that it has paid millions to greece to deal with this humanitarian crisis, but in this context the money is not enough and i would like to remind you of two other things. first, the closure of greece's northern border has trapped tens of thousands of people, likely complicating the task of the greek authorities. and then - the commission itself says this - returns from the islands to turkey do not work, if such a provision is acceptable. so instead of handing european sovereignty over to president erdoğan, the future commission should work more effectively with the council to finally achieve a fair system of distribution of asylum seekers. without this system we can continue to debate the situation in the greek islands, but it will not fundamentally change.
madam president, everybody now sees that the situation in the greek camps is reaching breaking point, and the stories and the pictures that we hear and see from the moria camp, the starvation, the forced prostitution, the suicide attempts are a stain on the european conscience. and it’s also clear that not just greece, but all relevant eu institutions and all member states must help to alleviate this humanitarian human rights crisis. but we also know that it can’t be properly solved if european migration policies are dependent on the whims, and held hostage by the whims, of president erdoğan of turkey. and the problem is also clear, and has been for some time, and that’s the inability of the council to come to a compromise on reforming our migration and asylum system, and from this european stalemate there is one clear winner, which is president erdoğan, and there are clear victims, who are the thousands of people stranded and suffering in these islands of greece.
thank you, colleague. you have given us news that makes us extremely sad. i remember with great affection mr gambús paco , a colleague with whom i have worked personally, with whom many of us have worked very fruitfully, a very serious, committed and truly exquisite person. i can only express my condolences to his family, friends and all those who mourn him. we're all gonna miss him so much, so first of all, thank you for reminding us.
mr president, i would also like to begin my speech with a heartfelt remembrance of my friend paco gambús, who, in addition to being a great parliamentarian and a great person, was a person very committed to the environment, who did an excellent job in the environment committee when he was a parliamentarian in this house. and i want to vindicate him for what he was: a great parliamentarian and a better person. that said, i also want to refer to the next cop. i am afraid that we will go on thursday to declare a climate emergency here in the european parliament - which will be great news - but that we will go back to the cop empty-handed. without the 2050 goal of carbon neutrality set, with a still-flimsy interim goal and with a lot of reforms to be done: withdraw coal subsidies, reform the cap to align it with paris, let the european central bank continue to buy coal-related assets - a lot of things to be done. so, that we're declaring a climate emergency on thursday is great news, but now it's time to take action to respond to all those young people who are calling from the streets for us to take this issue seriously.
mr president, science demands decisive political responses in the fight against climate change. in europe, it is important to increase our ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while preserving our way of life in the best possible way. it is imperative to be ambitious, but it is equally important to honour our commitments. to do that, we need a new pact for technology, a pact that leads to a faster implementation of the technologies that can make a difference. this is a challenge that is not impossible. however, we cannot face it alone. in madrid, at cop25, we must be clear when we meet the other delegations. we are prepared to continue to lead global climate action, but we need strong commitments from around the world. i urge the council and the commission to bring us a reflection on how to achieve this ambitious global commitment at cop25.
mr. chairman, the climate emergency is here, whether we like it or not. and it is time for this parliament, and other parliaments in europe and around the world, to take note. it's the result of scientists telling us for over 30 years that we have a problem, but we've been pretending that it's not that big of a problem. now we face the challenge of our generation. a challenge that can be compared for the last time with the second world war or the fight against other totalitarian regimes. but i also think it's a huge opportunity. an opportunity for us, like conquering the moon. we really have to take a positive stance on this, and try to make sure that we can change our economy, both in europe and around the world, not only ecologically, but also fairly. because otherwise, we'll lose the trust of the people. environmental justice is something that has to happen in our efforts to save the climate. because that's the only way we're going to get the trust of future generations.
mr president, of course most of us are committed to the goal of fighting climate change. several member states have already signed up, including my own country, slovakia. however, in order to achieve these objectives, in particular with regard to achieving greenhouse gas neutrality by 2050, we need to have a certain flexibility in the use of the instruments with which we will achieve this objective. we have to respect the ability of each country to choose its energy mix, and i think, and many of us think, that it has to include gas, at least in the medium term, and nuclear as well. nuclear, of course, is one of the sources that emits no emissions, but of course we can ask about safety and sustainability. i therefore oppose and i would appeal to you to amend the article or paragraph that speaks of nuclear as an economically and environmentally unsustainable instrument and energy source.
mr. chairman, every sane person rejects violence, especially violence against women and children. the istanbul convention is good in many ways, but it abuses the theme of women's protection to promote a reversed gender ideology, because in this convention, women are not defined biologically, but as socially created roles and behaviors. this means that under this convention, transvestites will officially be considered women, and society and other people will have to pretend to be blind, and these transvestites will have to be treated the same as normal women. commissioners, where do you want europe to go? the national council of the slovak republic, by a constitutional majority, i repeat, by a constitutional majority, refused to approve this convention, and now you want to force this on us from the position of the european union? it's a disgrace. we can protect women without this useless convention, because no paper, no purposeful convention like this is going to stop the lunatics who want to hurt women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a number of ardent calls for the slovak republic to be forced to ratify the istanbul convention. i ask why? anyone who knows the legal order of the slovak republic and knows the istanbul convention must come to the unequivocal conclusion that all, or even more, of the objectives set out in the istanbul convention are already contained within the jurisdiction of the slovak republic. it is true that the slovak republic has committed itself to respecting human rights and democratic principles by joining the european union. however, it did not commit itself to joining the european union, which is the basic thing that is stated in the preamble of the constitution of the slovak republic, namely that it was founded on the principles of cyrillic-methodist, on the principles of national traditions and christian traditions. that's the problem. the problem is not violence against women, but the vagueness of the explanation of some terms. i worked in the territory of the slovak republic for forty years ... (speaker exceeded the allotted time).
in writing. violence is incompatible with neither christian nor universal human values this applies to any form of violence, including domestic violence, which is most commonly violence against women. the consequences are long-lasting - they are debilitating and will also mar our future generations, for they leave a deep impression on our children. there is no excuse for idolatry, and society as a whole suffers from it. violence should not be avoided, treated as the norm or as an internal family matter. it's not going to go away on its own. we need to promote the shared responsibility of society and the state institutions so that no child or adult has to live with the awareness that violence is normal or inevitable. we need to help victims of violence recover and recover so that they can live normal lives. latvia too must join the ranks of western nations that condemn violence not only in words but also in deeds. do we really want to be like the conservative majority in the russian duma, which, in defence of 'traditional values', has repeatedly rejected amendments to the law that would have made domestic violence a criminal offence? the commission has not received any comments from latvia on the draft council of europe convention on the protection of minors against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the task of the latvian saeima is to ratify this convention and continue to improve legislation to fight violence as an evil on a daily basis. the mark of maturity in a democratic and modern society is the ability to recognize a problem and solve it.
in writing. violence against women is one of the most abhorrent forms of human rights violation. the horror of an act such as the recent slaughter of viola macáková in slovakia rightly shocks the public. according to research by the european union agency for fundamental rights, one in three women in the eu will experience some form of physical or sexual assault from the age of 15. these are alarming facts. nevertheless, some countries, such as slovakia, are boycotting the ratification of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. under such circumstances, how can the opponents of this convention look women in the eye? on today's international day for the elimination of violence against women, we need to take a clear stand for women's rights and say: your safety matters just as much. gender-based violence is a scourge that must be fought at all costs, and for this legal instruments such as the istanbul convention are needed. i call on all of you, especially the members of parliament and the voters of the countries that have not yet ratified the convention, to stop turning your back on your wives. stop tolerating violence.
for the s&d group. madam president, freedom of speech, assembly, travel, business, but above all free elections are the achievements of the gentle revolution and democratic change in europe. i am personally pleased that in 1989 we gave a voice to a totalitarian regime which, especially in the 1950s, bloodyly suppressed freedoms and which has since strangled many people for merely expressing their political opinions. i am glad that thanks to the soft revolution, we later became part of the european union. it must be said, however, that not all of the people's expectations were met. many have lost their jobs, their ability to buy, and even today, decent housing is not taken for granted. according to many, promises that there would be no price increases, no redundancies, and no divestment of strategic industries and energy have not been fulfilled. i would therefore like to see this anniversary, in addition to the well-deserved celebrations, used to debate across the political spectrum how to fight corruption more effectively, how to increase law enforcement and, in particular, how to strengthen social benefits, in short, how to make the whole of the european union a better place to live. after all, dialogue was one of the priorities of the actors of the gentle revolution.
madam president, i am pleased that we have commemorated here today, and on the floor of the european parliament, the 30th anniversary of the velvet revolution and the democratic changes that have taken place, particularly in central europe. and i'm even more pleased that not only did the superlatives come out, but that we tried to look at it from another angle and pointed out what we hadn't been able to achieve. but i didn't want to talk about those things, but i want to emphasize that it was the gentle revolution that made all these democratic changes possible, that made us part of the european union. but the eu is still far from perfect, and there are still various differences, both social and regional, between people and between regions within the eu. we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu is armed not only with good policies but also with enough money to eliminate these disparities. otherwise we will not succeed in fighting these extremist forces that call the eu evil, as well as democracy.
madam president, all the constitutions of the member states of the european union prohibit discrimination on grounds of sex, but the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is in force and binding on all member states - including poland - prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. and when jarosław kaczyński says that homosexuality is an attack on the family and on children and is an imported ideology, he is engaging in hate speech and is attacking the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and the hate speech that leads directly to aggression must be limited. but it must also be prohibited when it infringes the dignity of persons who are equal in dignity and rights. i had the honor of being the minister of justice who in spain promoted the adoption of marriage equality. he doesn't force anyone! it simply establishes the freedom of marriage in terms of equality for people of homosexual orientation with people of their preference. so it creates a space of freedom for people to love each other as they want. homosexuality is not a disease. homophobia is a real thing! and i had the honour of being a friend of the late pedro zerolo, leader of the lgbti collective, who clearly said that homosexuals have no place in a homophobic society... (the president withdraws the speaker).
madam president, to be honest, the very phrase lgbti free zones, when i hear it, makes me shiver, and i think it should cause horror in all of us who know european history and who know about all these attempts to create some kind of zones without one minority or without any national group, and we know where this language of segregation and exclusion leads, and it has always ended in violence in history. today, this violence is concentrated mainly in the online space, especially in my country, slovakia, we see a traumatic increase in hate speech against the lgbti community, and the result is really the psychological suffering and shattered destinies of thousands of innocent people. and against this homophobia of hatred, the commission, the platforms and the states must act first and foremost, but it is the responsibility of politicians, and especially politicians who tolerate or directly encourage this hate speech when they say that human rights and equality of lgbti minorities is some kind of civilizational threat, and that is precisely the language that ends in violence.
in writing. – i supported the new european commission and i hope that the strong political mandate will allow president ursula von der leyen to deliver what our citizens expect. higher turnout in may european elections means that the expectations of citizens are also higher. i am aware that the task will not be easy. ec is expected to deliver good results in traditional areas as cohesion policy, new priorities as digital market, artificial intelligence and fighting climate change, but especially to protect social rights. for all this ec will need sufficient financial resources, so it is of utmost importance to have a balanced mff focused on the implementation of all priorities mentioned above. a transition to greener economy based on new technologies and artificial intelligence will also require enormous resources in order to be implemented properly. the countries dependent in energy resourcing on fossil fuels and nuclear will need to get substantial financial assistance from the eu if they want to be successful in satisfying the climate goals. taking into account the strong mandate i expect the ec to act and effectively deliver in line with the ambitious priorities in order to meet the expectations of the citizens.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission vice—president on her election today. it was only timely that ms ursula von der leyen in her speech today mentioned the many czechs and slovaks who, 30 years ago during the velvet revolution, fought for freedom. thanks to that fight, freedom and free and fair elections are something that we have across europe in a much larger number today. it also something that we must safeguard, and we must take action, because we have been under threat. this is not just a debate about the lies before brexit; it’s something which concerns all of us and which we experienced in every election, including the european election – in every national contest. indeed, this parliament did adopt a resolution last month on how to best approach the fight against foreign interference and against the spread of disinformation. i think this is a very good start for political action. let me just underline three things which we would expect from the commission. first, this fight against external interference, and also the fight against disinformation, must become our political priority. this is not just a technical issue; this has to be at the forefront of the commission’s political fight in the next five years. we have to make it a political issue; we can’t just keep on talking about who is responsible, who is to blame. we must take action, and indeed, we must be bold in terms of proposing also regulation. we must safeguard the space on the internet. we must safeguard europe’s values. we must safeguard our democracy. we must also invest more money, more resources, into education – indeed, into education in the area where our citizens are most vulnerable: in cyberspace; on the internet; in the digital space. i hope we can all do this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a worrying pattern of very serious cases of interference in the internal affairs of our countries. the list is long: i've been to every major news organization in the world. eu, the loans from foreign banks in 2016 to the front national, the allegations of illicit financing of the austrian freedom party, the journalistic and judicial investigations against the league, on the occasion of the campaign for the european elections. the latest news is prime minister boris johnson's decision to block the publication of a report containing the findings of an 18-month investigation into possible russian interference in the uk. we have a duty to defend the european union and our citizens against these attacks, which are a form of hybrid warfare aimed at destabilising our democracy. we need a special committee of the european parliament to shed light on these facts once and for all. the house already adopted a very clear resolution on 10 october by a very large majority, which clearly states that we need new instruments. who voted against? the league of salvini, the brexit party of farage, the national rally of marine le pen. that's funny, that's them.
mr president, commissioner jourová, we need a special committee on interference and disinformation to collect all the data - the ones that are here today and many others - to defend democracy throughout europe. some facts. our country is a victim of russian interference in catalonia to weaken spain through disinformation judicial investigations prove it. russian private funds sponsor spanish-language web portals where far-right theses are disseminated. more facts. this week we learned that a spy from an elite russian unit visited spain in 2016, when the kremlin media published the first fake news about catalan independence, and that a circle of advisors to former catalan president puigdemont - a fugitive from justice - offered diplomatic cooperation to russia in exchange for the country's validation of the illegal declaration of independence in catalonia in 2017. they collaborate with national populists of both kinds, because by weakening spain they weaken the whole of the european union, they weaken our democracies. we must therefore make every effort, commissioner, to have a special committee of inquiry: we need it. we need to defend our democracies.
mr. president, please! our recent resolution says that the european union has successfully implemented a series of measures to reduce foreign influence in the 2019 european parliament elections. i suggest that the new european commission immediately examine these good practices and successful technologies in detail and examine the possibilities of their transposition at national level, since we are facing dozens of elections in the member states of the union next year alone. we must be careful that our focus on russia does not overshadow what is happening in other parts of the world. i am concerned about the union's repeatedly highlighted dependence on foreign software, infrastructure and technologies. i think we can and must invest more resources and energy in developing our own security resources if we are to remain the leading continent of democracy. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital agenda, in particular through the european digital agenda, which aims to promote the digital transformation of society.
mr. president, it goes without saying that free and fair elections are the foundation of the democratic process. and the problem with that is that when they're manipulated from abroad, it casts a shadow of doubt not only on the legitimacy of the parliament and the government, but actually on all the decisions that are made afterwards. and we're not just talking about online manipulation, fake news, disinformation, but also, for example, foreign funding of political parties or political campaigns. and we know these cases from europe, whether it was the british referendum or some national elections. and what we need to do, and we've talked about this a lot, is of course to strengthen those existing tools, stratcom east or the early warning mechanism, and invest in cybersecurity, of course, in a way that doesn't compromise the values that we want to protect. in any case, whatever we do, we must do it together, because an attack on democratic elections in one country is an attack on democracy in the whole of the european union.
madam president, the reaction to developments in the balkans after the european council refused to open negotiations on the accession of north macedonia and albania to the eu shows that the eu cannot afford to gamble with friendship and good relations with its neighbours. otherwise, he loses geopolitically. and it's going to be very happy to be replaced by other powers, like russia or china, or maybe iran. it is therefore good that the eu continues to strengthen its relations with the countries to its east, at different levels. therefore, it is in the interest of our people as well as the people of these countries. differentiation is the keyword for eastern neighbourhood policy. that means we have to differentiate between countries. we already have an association agreement with some, some are just good business partners, but we must make sure that we have a deep relationship with all of them, and that it is beneficial for us in the fields of energy, transport, student exchanges and culture. as each of the states ukraine, georgia, moldova and armenia, azerbaijan, and even belarus must have a really appropriate place in our politics. and i think we can help them reform their own systems, like the judiciary, or other areas.
madam president, it is true that 30 years ago a great popular uprising broke out in romania and the romanians also got rid of the dictatorship, of the totalitarian communist regime of comrade ceausescu. it must be said that romania has come a long way since then, it has not been easy, romania has been awakened by the number of inhabitants and it is still far away, as are our countries, the czech republic or slovakia, in terms of living standards compared to, for example, germany. and in democracy, of course, we have weaknesses in building democracy, and we have weaknesses in other areas as well. but we must also work together with the european union to eliminate these weaknesses, also with the instruments we have here, to build and strengthen the rule of law, and therefore use all the legislative instruments to evaluate and correctly and fairly evaluate the situation in the field of human rights, respect for the rule of law and respect for the rights of minorities in all countries equally, because we have mistakes everywhere, some do more, some do less.
for the ecr group. madam president, vat fraud is undoubtedly one of the biggest frauds in the european union. the commission estimates that this amounts to eur 137 billion per year. a huge, astronomical number, and not only is there a lack of health care, of education, but it's also the fact that taxes are paid more by those who are the most honest. it is therefore good that the union is acting, but it is not quite true that this is a pan-european problem. if we look at the graph, this graph, we see the tax gap in the collection of vat in the individual member states. while at the top end the vat gap in luxembourg or cyprus is less than 1%, at the bottom end it is well over 30%, that is, 50 times. i would therefore like to call on the commission to make analyses, quality analyses based on objective data, in such situations. they would allow us to make decisions the way we are, based on facts and not just opinions or emotions, and then spread best practices to other countries.
mr. chairman, if hitler had won the war, i wouldn't be here today. in this chamber, there are also members who admire hitler's ideology of superiority. there are people in this room who divide us by how we look, not how we act. they divide us by prejudice, not by deeds. during world war ii, tens of millions of innocent people died because of a debased ideology and because many europeans believed it. in my country, slovakia, the fascists were walking in military boots and uniforms until a few years ago. today they traded them for pantyhose and expensive suits. they're not marching in the streets, they're in parliament. they shamelessly attach the cross of jesus christ to their expensive jackets. they preach hatred and even exploit the christian faith to appeal to the masses. but god has nothing to do with hatred. the extremists are gaining strength with each election. especially among the young. we cannot repeat the mistakes of our ancestors who were silent during the rise of fascism. we learn from history. no one is sure that fascism doesn't affect them. no one is sure that he himself will not end up on the list of victims of fascism.
blue-card answer. – mr president, i have always been in favour of protests that are peaceful and non-violent. i think this is something that this house agrees on. a lot of protests have been going on and i do not find myself comfortable condemning any protests that are peaceful. not so ever. there were also citizens in the office of the prime minister. i think that goes to show that protests are being carried out and that they are being carried out with all due respect to the process.
mr president, the european parliament delegation has indeed brought from malta a chilling report on the state of the rule of law and the links between the oligarchy, the judiciary and the highest political echelons. and it is precisely this corrupt system that made possible the murder of daphne caruana galizia and for years prevented its investigation. as in slovakia, this corrupt system allowed the murder of jan kuciak and his fiancée. and it is truly incomprehensible today that, despite all that we know about the situation in malta, the european council is unable to move and even to initiate a political debate with prime minister muscat, let alone to take a clear political stance. and governments and their leaders in the european council must realise that the european union will not survive unless its values are taken seriously, unless they themselves take its values seriously, because without mutual trust that states and their leaders respect the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, neither the single market, nor cohesion policy, nor free movement will work. and values are not luxuries in this sense, but they are also the basis for the practical functioning of the european union. it is therefore high time that their monitoring became an integral and integral part of the european project, in which all the institutions must cooperate, not only parliament, not only the commission, but above all the member states themselves. we therefore need to set common criteria that apply equally to all, not as a replacement for article 7 or other mechanisms, but as a complement to them. so that no more corrupt system can be created in any member country that allows the murder of a journalist.
mr president, when we talk about malta we have to talk about slovakia, how much does the murder of a journalist cost? the following table shows the number of persons employed in the slovak republic: the murders of daphne galizia and jan kuciak only revealed what you keep closing your eyes to. and that is that the rule of law in these countries, the member states of the european union, has been broken down by mafia governments into literally pieces. while brussels sends delegations and writes resolutions, corrupt politicians in these countries use the time to conduct disinformation campaigns. they blame soros, they blame ngos, and they make people feel that the truth is no longer worth anything. in slovakia, the socialists have just recently imposed a 50-day electoral moratorium with the fascists, and the president of the european committee is already quite openly promoting communism there. malta and slovakia have one thing in common: they are governed by parties that belong to the european socialist family. brussels must stop protecting mafia governments in its own states, in its own member states. we owe it to all decent citizens of the union whose own state has been stolen by corrupt politicians.
mr president, the daphne caruana case is the visible face of a problem which has many faces. not only could this be a state murder, but above all, his death was intended to cover up a system of tax evasion and avoidance by large corporations. daphne was investigating the web of the so-called 'panama papers', which involved not only the maltese government, but also billionaires and multinationals from across europe. what daphne revealed was not a maltese problem, but a web of abuse and impunity of corporate power with the connivance of the public powers. this is a problem that goes beyond malta's borders and that also requires us to focus on the european union as a whole. what daphne caruana denounced in the panama papers and her murder remain unsolved. this parliament cannot look only at the specific case of daphne and malta. we must also address what daphne caruana herself denounced in her investigations. justice for daphne and her threatened family means justice for a state that serves corporate power and its impunity. we must take urgent action to protect whistleblowers so that we do not have another daphne caruana case. there are many daphne caruanas in europe. it's urgent to protect them. we must not have another murder of this nature.
mr president, this parliament took political leadership last year to protect journalists after the murders of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová in slovakia. that was an extremely important step, and let me tell you, justice in slovakia hasn’t yet been done. this is why it’s so important that everybody in this house exerts pressure for political change in malta, because only with that political change can we create space – real space – for justice to be done. that’s why it is essential and that’s why we are here today, to be the leader of political change. but our voice is not enough. we need the member states and we need the commission to support the people of malta, who deserve to know the truth. and that is going to take time, but the first step is political change. prime minister muscat has said he will resign. well, he should go now. he should resign now. this is the key message, and this is a message we are sending from this parliament right here and right now. in addition to that, of course, we do need major changes in the way we discuss the rule of law in this house and in the european union. we need a comprehensive mechanism that prevents events such as the murder of daphne caruana galizia, and we need to work on it right now. we need to protect journalists and we need preventive measures. we can’t discuss crisis management after the murders happen, and that’s why we need the answers from the commission, but also from the member states, right now.
madam president, the brutal murders of journalists in malta and slovakia have revealed how far corruption and the mafia can go at the highest levels of politics, the prosecution, the courts, and how helplessly the european institutions are to watch. the horrific murders of daphne galizia and jan kuciak, journalists, and his fiancée, show us how weak europe is. the task of the european union, our european community, is to set up a mirror of our own. even those who are part of our community. corruption is a problem in many lands. in malta and slovakia, long before the murder of journalists, the institutions should have set a mirror to the governments that ruled there. this mirror is not set. two innocent people died because of the indifference of many institutions. i call on all the european institutions to put as much pressure as possible on malta as a matter of urgency so that the investigation of the case in malta can be conducted without any interference from politicians, judges and prosecutors. therefore, it is imperative that all those, including the prime minister of malta, who may be implicated in this murder, step down from their posts. the european union is also calling for the abolition of the death penalty in all eu countries, including the united states, and for the abolition of the death penalty in all countries. in my home country of slovakia, but also in malta, corruption and the mafia have gone so far that they not only steal, but they also murder. we have to give back to the people. the state lays down the law to the people, not the mob.
madam president, i really think we can all agree that it's very bad news for democracy if a journalist is murdered, no matter where. i think all our european union countries have in common that we have problems to some degree, some more, some less with corruption. we also have problems sometimes with free speech, free speech of the media and so on. but it must be said that we must be helpful as european institutions so that the investigation can really proceed objectively, impartially and independently of any political pressure. we're hearing calls for the maltese prime minister to step down. as has been said, the slovak prime minister resigned in slovakia, and i don't think that was the most important thing in this process. the most important thing is to really ensure that the investigation and all the really bodies that are involved in criminal proceedings can act freely, independently of political power. and this is most important in slovakia, it has already borne fruit in the sense that several people have already been charged, even me, those who ordered the murder of the journalist in slovakia, jan kuciak. it is true that we as institutions must be impartial and we must try not to influence the political struggle and the abuse of such a subject for internal political struggles and in this case, for example, to schedule missions and the libe committee at a time when there is no political struggle just before the elections.
for the ecr group. mr president, projections say that after 2020, people with disabilities will make up as much as one fifth of the population. we have the un convention, we have the strategies, and yet we find deep differences among member states. the current strategy clearly lacks monitoring of its implementation, we lack data. i'll tell you what a person with a disability in slovakia looks like. it's gambling with its potential from birth, because we're failing completely to intervene in a timely manner. after being misdiagnosed or diagnosed late, they begin to lag behind their peers in more developed countries. up to half of our special needs children are educated separately from their peers, even when their disability allows them to attend a regular primary school. on slovak streets, because of the barriers, you hardly see people with disabilities. if a wheelchair user wants to travel by train, he must humiliatingly notify the railroad a day in advance. up to 7 out of 10 people with disabilities in slovakia are completely excluded from the labour market. and we're still talking about the ones who didn't end up in the disastrous, high-capacity facilities that we should have turned into community services a long time ago. the planned post-2020 strategy must bear in mind that we have an acute lack of comparable data and a lack of implementation. so many states report superficial improvements on paper that contribute to the bogus statistics we then settle for. we need to move beyond general recommendations and prevent the misuse of european funds for projects that run counter to the objectives of the strategy. for disabled people from countries such as slovakia, it is very important that we promote a common european disability card and that we unify diagnoses of disability.
madam president, yes, we can say that cop25 ended in failure, people's expectations were not met and there was disappointment. but i'd like to take the positive side of it. cop25 has failed, not the european union. we came up with an ambitious green deal plan, and we can already see it inspiring many countries around the world. our job is to prove that a planet-friendly economy is possible and, in fact, necessary. i am proud to be part of a european union that is openly committed to climate neutrality, biodiversity protection, green policies and active solutions. we are the first in the world to embark on this journey, and i know that our success will be a success for all of us. if we succeed, everyone will eventually join us. there'll be more at the next cop.
president, commissioner, minister, the dramatic decline of pollinators such as bees, bumblebees and butterflies is a hallmark of the way we treat and destroy our environment. we know there's a problem, but we're doing far too little to fix it. as in the case of climate change, scientific facts are being called into question. thanks to the lobby of the poison industry, we are told that solutions are not feasible or not affordable. how stupid is that, when we know that we are not only putting nature at risk but our own future as well? the implementation of the bee directive to eradicate dangerous agricultural pests has been postponed for another two years. what does the new commissioner intend to do to speed up the process and how does she intend to ensure that neonics are no longer allowed in member states? all the little things help. they're essential links in our nature. we need a radical greening of town and country. no more monoculture, no more pesticides, and a new way for the bees to breed. finally, i believe that agricultural subsidies must be abolished.
mr. president, you may know the letter written by the indian chief of seattle in 1854 to george washington, the president of the united states, who wanted to buy up the land of the indians and put them on the reservation, of course. he wrote, "the earth is our mother". whatever happens to earth will happen to her children. sadly, these predictions are becoming increasingly true today. the world is taking great strides forward with new technologies, with new inventions, but at the same time we have to take a few steps back: back to nature, back to respecting nature. the pollinators are our invisible and very good co-workers. that's why they need all our attention. i am pleased with the proposals that we will be implementing by adopting these documents and i am glad that my country was the initiator of bee day two years ago, so that there is also an opportunity to raise awareness among the population.
mr president, commissioner kyriakides, ladies and gentlemen, the health of bees is one of the most urgent alarms against which the union must take the lead in tackling the causes of the decline in pollinators. without bees, more than three quarters of the food that reaches our tables would not exist, and this is enough to give an idea of how ambitious and no-longer-delayed choices are needed by us and all member states, in line with the european food safety authority's 2013 guidelines on bees. bees are farmers' first allies, and european farmers recognise this key role. in fact, in the last few decades we have seen a decline in the use of the highest risk pesticides, and thanks to the greening measures of the cap, which have been, among other things, recently strengthened in the omnibus regulation, we have promoted the use of honey plants and today in the union over 10% of arable land is dedicated to the protection of biodiversity. but we can 't stop there . european farmers must be encouraged to take a further step forward in the provision of environmental services that protect the health of pollinators, for the benefit of the whole community. we need a coordinated initiative, adequately funded, which focuses on research and innovation, giving europe back its leading role in this challenge. otherwise, we risk being left with a jumble of national interventions. this parliament, commissioner, did not want to take that risk and does not want to take it, but to live up to the ambitions of the european green deal.
mr president, our future is not only threatened by the climate crisis, it is also threatened by the biodiversity crisis. we've reached a tipping point, and we have two choices: we can sit back and watch this go down the drain, or we can finally start doing something about it. the massive loss of insects is not just a coincidence. it is the result of a number of serious factors. there's climate change, there's invasive species, but first of all there's agricultural policy and the continued use of dangerous pesticides that are contributing to the decline of pollinators. how is it possible that our taxes are funding the activities that cause this? we need a change, a change that will bring about an agricultural policy that helps to protect biodiversity, the bees, but also helps farmers in this endeavour, support for science so that we have enough knowledge about where we have a problem, and a transparent and accountable policy from the commission that will listen to scientists and not just selectively pick what is right. the citizens need action. they want a solution which governments and the commission must bring to them, because without bees, without pollinators, there is no food, there are no farmers and there is no future.
mr. chairman, the pollinator protection initiative is an important step in saving a key component of ecosystems. there are several reasons for the decline in pollinators, but the most serious are land-use change and chemical pollution. we're losing ecosystems and species that have been with us for centuries. a country that we manage too intensively loses diversity. and what i'm saying is that the initiative will not be enough if we don't ensure coherence across the next measures. if the common agricultural policy continues to promote intensive farming, we will fail. if the green deal promotes tree planting and plantations instead of protecting natural forests, we will fail. if we prioritize the intensive use of biomass over the preservation of remnants, hedges, woodlands, solitaries or old forests, we will fail. if we encourage intensive livestock farming instead of free grazing in the country, we will fail and lose the buzz, and not only that. we just can't fool the pollinators.
mr president, yes, we all agree that europe's biodiversity, its ecosystems and, of course, our food security in the long term, are all at risk. imagine that there are already areas in china where people get pollen by mail, take brushes, and pollinate peaches to make new fruits. i just hope that our farming policy, with its foresight, will be able to prevent such and such phenomena, because pollinators, and bees in particular, are perhaps one of the most important for our well-being and the health of our children in general. we really need to get rid of pesticides, and especially the so-called neonicotinoid pesticides, which are primarily a threat to the central nervous system. and if they threaten the central nervous system of bees, they certainly threaten humans. let's really consider this and act very responsibly towards the future of our generations.
madam president, thousands and thousands of animals are exported from the eu to third countries every year, under conditions that i cannot even imagine in the middle ages. but it's not just these transports, it's not just the ship in romania. the transports, which also travel across europe, put animals through conditions that i can hardly imagine. it's a suffering that conservationists have been pointing to for decades. despite the fact that this parliament has dealt with this many times, despite the new promises we have received, despite the public pressure across europe, the stop the truck campaign still does not get enough action. we need a change. we need to limit transport within the european union to a maximum of eight hours and, when it comes to exports to third countries, we need to either ensure that our standards are met or simply ban them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally believe that we must pay tribute to the people of the united kingdom, to mr farag and to my colleagues in the brexit party for having shown the way forward, the way forward for a civilized and democratic europe. britain is not leaving europe, it is leaving the european union as a bureaucratic institution, and i believe that in the foreseeable future the european union will consist of independent nation states cooperating with each other, living in peace so that they do not have to be managed in a bureaucratic way from brussels. dear friends from the united kingdom: good luck, happy christmas, and happy new year.
madam president, yes, china is a huge power, a huge country, with several thousand years of history and our great trading partner. but that doesn't allow us to turn a blind eye to the systematic violation of human rights, of civil liberties, especially in xinjiang province, where really one in eight or one in nine is in a concentration camp, whether we euphemistically call it a re-education center or something, but it's basically a concentration camp, because people are not there voluntarily. we cannot therefore turn a blind eye to this and must emphasise and draw attention to this in our dialogue with the chinese authorities. i'm not a fan of sanctions, but on the other hand, i think that if the missions of international observers and journalists that china has to allow to visit the country find that it's really the case, as the "china cables" scandal says, then targeted sanctions are really about the only way we can go if we want to be consistent in demanding a level of human rights around the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union is to exist as it is and play the role of judge of the world and protector of rights and freedoms from antarctica to the arctic, it must first of all be objective, so as not to lose face. this motion for a resolution on the russian law is, frankly, an unbiased hoax. an unbiased fake that doesn't take into account the underlying facts. so you're all talking about the opposition in russia being threatened. but i took the effort, i took the effort, and i went through all the votes of the russian parliament from 2012, 2017 and 2019. these laws, the first, the second and the last, were voted for by 60% of the russian duma and not voted against by the opposition russian parties, so this is the decision of 250 million russian citizens. it's a russian matter. it is a response to american restrictions, and so let's look at it objectively, let's look at it objectively, let's not be russophobes, and let's also think about the fact that the world is no longer standing on one leg, the world is standing on at least two or three legs, and the future of europe and the future of all other countries depends on cooperation, on building bridges, on economic cooperation, and not on interference in the internal affairs of other countries.
