mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, mr linz and mr staes, and commissioner andriukaitis for their very dedicated work. with the final report of the committee for the registration of pesticides, we want to strengthen our attitude to food quality and restore citizens' trust in the european institutions. it is time that pesticides stop poisoning our fields and our grasslands, and it is time that pesticides stop poisoning our political debates. health first! the run-up to any election is particularly prone to quick fixes, which rely on simple slogans and generalizations rather than facts, and the forthcoming european elections are no exception. i therefore welcome the pest report which calls for a systematic review of all studies on the effects of glyphosate on human health and the environment, which will provide the basis for our further action. but i think that much more needs to be done to restore people's trust in the european institutions. different agencies have given us different results on the carcinogenicity of glyphosate and other pesticides. thoughts still exist, and time is running out, despite the facts. the use of chemical pesticides in food preparation and production damages air, water and soil, as well as biodiversity and human health. it is no longer just a matter of restoring public trust, but increasingly it is also a matter of respecting the science and insisting that we, as politicians, no longer compromise on health. as chair of the parliament's group on cancer, i can say that as a society we are understandably busy finding cures and treatments for this increasingly common disease, and not enough is being done to tackle its causes. cancer is not just a private matter of doctors and patients, cancer is a political and social problem. if we are to achieve positive changes in health, we need to change our european development paradigm, including agricultural policy. alternatives to chemical pesticides already exist, but we lack the will to change the legislative framework. the pest committee report is a step in the right direction, which i welcome.
mr president, and first of all, a heartfelt congratulations to the respected rapporteurs, mr linz and mr staes, who have produced a balanced report, but they have had to respond to a demanding issue, the issue of pesticide use, which is also being promoted by the authorization of glyphosate. we talk about health, that the topic is important, people have emphasized this by signing the petition, and we know that we, too, when we take care of our health, we go after medicines. the less we need to use, the better we see, and the same is true in agriculture, where crop protection requires that we also cut down on pesticides. this applies to all technologies, both in conventional, integrated agriculture and in organic farming, where this use is small, minor, but it exists. what's important is what was written, that we talk about evolution, not talk about revolution. the agricultural sector is changing, and i'm a farmer, and i know exactly what farmers have to do, how it's changed over the last 30 years, and how it's moving towards greener pesticide use, less pesticide use, more transparency. these rules, which respect science, transparency of procedures and support innovation, are the right guidelines. in the latter, i think it is very important to ensure that efsa has sufficient capacity to manage and control these processes effectively, on the one hand, and to innovate for new technologies, including robotics, precision agriculture and the transition to a greener european agriculture, which is also the direction of the new agricultural policy. i will certainly support the report.
madam president, the protection of the health of our citizens is one of our most important tasks and this report is all the more important because it calls for the provision of independent, objective and transparent evaluations of pesticides and of course their effects. let's just remember this scandal, this glyphosate saga, which in the process of renewing the approval, has sparked a huge debate about whether or not glyphosate is carcinogenic. and the studies that came out at that time were really questionable. especially since these studies also included the fingerprints of certain plant protection industries, i.e. those that produce these glyphosates. and that is why we need to ensure independent, objective assessments, and above all to ensure public access to all available industry studies, because if there is any doubt that studies are independent, public scrutiny will always be necessary, because that is the only way to ensure trust.
madam president, the appointment of a special envoy for the promotion of religious freedom was an excellent decision by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, and was not only welcomed by the european union. special envoy ján figel has a lot of work to do, and he does it very well. his work puts the european union on the side of those whose fundamental rights are being threatened, and i also think that the work of jan figel has a positive feedback effect on the european union, because through this work we have increased awareness of the importance of religious freedom in many countries of the world, and i would like this awareness to have a greater influence on our foreign policy. my question to commissioner jourová is how the european commission intends to strengthen the role of the special envoy.
madam president, the question of what the european elections will bring to the european union is a topical one these days. unfortunately, this is not just a matter of fear on the one hand and enthusiasm on the other for the expected strengthening of eurosceptic xenophobic parties. it is really about the credibility of the european union, its added value. these days, we are talking with spanish prime minister sanchez about the future of europe, just days before the start of the monstrous trial of catalan political prisoners, who have been in prison for a year and are facing draconian sentences, and we are silent. we will be deciding these days on our commercial interests in western sahara, overlooking the fact that there are also violations of international law and human rights. do we have a plan b for the crisis that is looming in macedonia, which we have promised a european future? it's on these issues that our credibility stands or falls, not on populist pre-election rhetoric.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of a unified european immigration policy is daily depriving more and more people of their humanity, who are fleeing wars and crises. the latest in a series of such cases is the unfortunate story you mentioned, 49 people trapped for 19 days in the mediterranean sea, and no country allowed the sea-watch ship carrying the refugees to even enter its territorial waters to escape storms in the waters. despite the late response, i welcome the decision of the member states of the union to help and accept refugees, including my own country, slovenia. and each such tragedy is further proof that a common approach and response by member states to a humanitarian crisis is needed, but when, colleagues, when, i ask member states. we adopted a reform of the asylum system two years ago in parliament which would go beyond the partial interests of individual countries and would stand the test of time, and i agree with you, mr commissioner, that the responsibility and the blame now rests entirely with the member states. i wonder how many more tragedies like this we'll have to witness before we act. courage in action, loyalty to european principles and solidarity, and a common response to the challenges of our time remain the only true way forward.
mr. chairman, madam prime minister, at the beginning of your presidency, you raised quite a bit of dust, even here in the chamber, but i believe and trust that you will prove the opposite, as you have already done in your talks with us. i support the priorities of your presidency, particularly as regards the western balkans. we need positive stories in the region, and therefore we also congratulate our friends in macedonia on the parliamentary vote on constitutional changes, and hope for a similar outcome in greece. the leaders have shown wisdom and courage to resolve one of the oldest conflicts in the region. and i call on you, politicians and citizens, in a period of european elections marked by a rise in populist and nationalist rhetoric, to condemn in a firm and clear voice the spread of hatred and all attempts to undermine the institutions. a different, rational europe is possible. either she's going to be social or she's not. either stability or peace will prevail, or democracy will be overcome by authoritarianism. and i hope you will do a great job of this presidency, and we must remind our citizens of all the achievements of the union.
mr president, it has been more than ten years since the establishment of the globalisation adjustment fund. and of course, as we all know, the situation has changed in that time, and it is right that the rules governing the operation of this fund should change as well. i welcome, of course, the simplification of the rules and the new criteria and criteria for beneficiaries. the changes will thus benefit smes in particular and those countries with a high number of smes. but they could be even more ambitious in their attempts to lower the barrier. in my country, for example, according to the latest statistics, there are only 350 companies that would meet this new criterion, so they have more than 250 employees. the changes will also allow those employees affected by job losses due to digitalisation and other new processes to access the funds. but as with all scalps, it is right that the rules be simple, as simple as possible, but the controls must be as good as possible.
mr president, the european union can only remain competitive in the world economy if it maintains a high level of employment, education, health and social inclusion for its people. the knowledge and skills gap, particularly in the digital field, and the lack of links between education systems on the one hand and the labour market on the other, are having a detrimental impact on european society as a whole. therefore, investment in human capital is a very important growth driver in the european economy and the esf+ is an investment in human capital. as rapporteur for the youth employment initiative, i welcome the fact that the esf+ programme gives special attention to the youth field and that it even sets a minimum percentage that countries must allocate to young people under this programme.
madam chairman, we have confusion, crisis, damage, time pressure and unpredictability. all to the detriment of the british people and the entire european union. i agree with my colleague kamal that the british people were not informed of the consequences of brexit. they were populistally seduced by a fairy tale of an independent and prosperous future. what is a democracy worth if it's not based on truth? we pay the price of populism. today, the british know what it means to agree, what it means to disagree, and what it means to stay in touch. the deal fell through yesterday. simply put, there are two options left: no deal or remain in the european union. if the elite can't decide, let the people decide. the longer the uncertainty lasts, the more businesses will leave the uk and the more british citizens will seek citizenship in europe. i'm for a renewal and a second referendum. and above all, for a united europe with the united kingdom.
in writing. the british parliament has made it clear that it does not want the agreement the british prime minister has agreed with the eu. he also said he didn't want a hard exit, but it's more likely than ever. last night's vote is a major defeat for the british prime minister. but it's time for britain to finally say what it really wants. i'm convinced that brexit is bad for everyone. i regret the rejection of the deal last night, but there's no need for drama. there's a lot of uncertainty in the air right now. there is a possibility of an early election, a new referendum, but the decision is up to the british. the united kingdom's departure is the worst-case scenario that we must try to avoid. the uncertainty that would be imposed on the people of the island, on the british people in the eu and on the economy is too great and too risky. the socialists and democrats in the ep are sending a strong warning to the member states that we will not be prepared to weaken the agreements already reached in the negotiations with the uk. if the island asks for an extension of the withdrawal, which could lead to a more ambitious agreement, then we in slovenia should not oppose it either.
mr. chairman, i usually commend the rapporteur for his report, but i can't do that this time. the report erodes the basic concept of human rights, practically excludes fundamental human rights and absolutely even tries to make illegal migration, which is the work of smugglers, a fundamental human right. the report says that the eu is a place of discrimination, racism, xenophobia, hate speech, violence against women, against migrants, even the darkest side of europe. this is not fair to the european union, which is nevertheless a place of freedom, equality, solidarity, where the quality of life is the highest, where dignity is the most valued value. why didn't you consult your colleagues more when you wrote the report and create a greater degree of compromise, why could there have been a vote? i am therefore unable to support this report because it is incomplete, biased, asymmetrical and unobjective.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. madam president, this is a subject of great importance for the economy of the european union and for payment discipline. as we have seen in the past and as we see every day, late payments in commercial transactions are unfortunately a reality faced by many european businesses. and here, in fact, none of the european countries are particularly safe. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are particularly affected, as they are the most frequently affected by these late payments. and of course, this has very serious consequences. we have heard many times of small and medium-sized businesses going bankrupt, with whole families suffering as a result. and the point is that, of course, we can and should leave a lot of things to the market itself, but we certainly need to establish regulations that will protect the weaker from the abuse of the stronger. and these late payments are just one form of what's called unauthorized trading practices, which unfortunately, is all too common at every turn. and non-payment or late payment is just one of those elements, along with, of course, the return of unsold goods, the poor treatment of small suppliers, and i think that as the european union we have a duty to provide mechanisms to protect the weakest in this area. but of course, in addition to the mediation mentioned by my colleagues, i would like to mention something else: the public sector is also one of the big defaulters or late payers. and there are, of course, no excuses for not doing something about it. i think we have huge reserves here and the most countries can do is of course, it's just a shame that the public sector is also often contributing to this delay in payments.
on behalf of the s&d group. the representatives of the lega nord party are calling our italian colleague cecile kyenge an orangutan. they compare her to a slave, want to rape her, send her back to her country. in hungary, security guards at the public television station physically assaulted opposition mps, and laszlo varju was hospitalized for his injuries. the attack was carried out by fidesz. nova 24tv and demokracija, slovenian media funded by the sds party with money from hungary, regularly label me as an infamous leftist, fascist, soros's mercenary, a murderer with bloody hands, a traitor to the homeland and the like. when i warned them of the unreality of the statements and the criminal liability, they said i was offended. my dear fellow, no offense, but we have a serious problem. such statements and actions in a democratic europe should not be without consequences. coming from the mouths, pens and hands of politicians and the media. and not just ordinary citizens. three months ago, i organized a conference on hate speech in ljubljana. in it, we pointed out a few phenomena that we should be very serious about if we want to address and contain this problem: what is the role of the media in ensuring objectivity by confronting human rights defenders and racists? is it not the media's job to keep voices of hatred and intolerance out of the public discourse? on the left, in the spirit of defending values, we were only tolerant of the intolerant in the sense that we tried to explain to them, with rational arguments, why homophobic outbursts are inappropriate. now the right, when it comes to it, of course, is defending free speech, which it has carved into its mind that anyone can say anything and get away with it. on the other hand, he punishes opponents physically, as we saw in hungary. hate speech is organized and funded today. it is guided and it is intended to instill fear, to divide people and to open the way to power. the slovak opposition sds party received funds from abroad, specifically from hungary, during the last campaign to finance its advertisements. like nationalist ideologies, the outpouring of hateful feelings and crude words in times of crisis offers an escape. it is mainly used by people who feel socially deprived. but we have to worry that politicians like salvini, orban, janša, are exploiting these people for their own agenda. the authors of hate speech once hid in anonymity, but now they are exposed , mainly because of the politicians who give them support and image. so it seems that hate speech is becoming very normal, and therefore its power is growing. however, colleagues, hate speech, violence - psychological or physical - is not and should not be normal. the incitement of hatred of any kind, whether against politicians, officials or other citizens, is destructive and counterproductive. europeans do not deserve this, europe does not deserve this. so i warn anyone who expects political gain from this that it will be very short-term, and on behalf of the socialists and democrats i call for common sense.
mr president, i thank you for clarifying yesterday's statement, because what was understood yesterday in slovenia and croatia, as mr jakovčič said, was completely different. and the expression italian istria, italian dalmatia, has inadvertently taken us back not only to the time after the second world war and to events that slovenians, croats, italians, we all regret, but also to the time after the first world war when italian fascism inflicted great misery on this part of slovenia, croatia, europe. thank you again for this clarification and i want to conclude this topic in that spirit, because otherwise it goes in very wrong direction and it is not in the spirit of the 21st century and i know that you are not striving for hatred but for friendship. so, again, i thank you for your apology and i ask you to make a clear statement to the people at the border who are expecting it.
thank you for your words, mr. chairman. fraud, corruption and other illegal activities undermine both the financial interests of the european union and citizens' confidence in the rule of law. the anti-fraud programme is important and necessary. european countries lose about 180 billion euros annually to corruption, of which slovenia, by some estimates, loses 3.5 billion euros. value-added tax fraud, corruption in health care, public procurement, and the banking sector are just the tip of the iceberg. we as a society cannot be so absorbed in corruption as to take it for granted. it must be fought at all levels of society. every year, the european union loses huge amounts of money when drawing on european funds, so it will not be enough to call for transparency without concrete action. the european institutions must take a proactive stance to ensure that european ombudsmen are not so deficient and that the detection of corruption is no longer left to the goodwill of individual member states.
mr. president, please! big predators are animals that we've heard are successfully protected in europe and their stock is increasing. in slovenia, too, the bear population has increased by one third in the last eight years, the wolf population has increased, and in recent years a species of jackal has invaded our territory, causing increasing damage and problems for farmers, especially for livestock farmers. on the other hand, the abandonment of agriculture in mountain areas is lowering the forest boundary and bringing it closer to those who live off livestock. the issue is becoming intolerable even for people who are either walkers or tourists in these areas, so it is imperative that what we are talking about is that the protection of these animals is on the one hand, and the protection of people is on the other. one of the appropriate measures is also to shoot, and if it is considered unwise, it must be done. there are too many of those who are far from the wolves, far from the bears... (the president shall decline to take the floor. )
madam president! i am glad that we in the european parliament are doing a lot of work on the use of pesticides. we have adopted the special report of the committee, today we adopt the report on the sustainable use of pesticides. as in human medicine, the goal is clear: fewer pesticides, fewer aggressive ones that can harm health, the environment, or even animals. and so i think that what we're doing in the european union, to support integrated farming, is we're supporting cross-compliance by screening the sprinklers, on the other hand, training those who use them, and also by focusing on organic farming. the use of pesticides in agriculture will certainly continue for some time, and it is therefore right to support precision farming methods, where we can detect disease and pests with precise sensors, and reduce the environmental impact with precise applications, while, as i have already said, we should continue to support measures in future agricultural policy that move agriculture towards integrated production and organic production.
madam president! i would like to thank my colleague, mr iv belete, for a very well-written report. it is an important dossier that our citizens understand and use, and it is a good example of what a europe close to the people means in practice. the adoption of the directive required clear judgments from the european court of justice, which confirmed that patients have the right to healthcare in other member states and to reimbursement of the costs of it, in accordance with european rules. we read and hear about cases where patients cannot access treatment available in another country because of problems with insurance companies, or cases where treatment is obtained but then the domestic insurance company refuses to reimburse the cost. patients with rare cancers, including those mentioned in the report, are not alone in this experience. we don't need a new directive first, we need a consistent implementation first. a europe without borders will only exist when we have health care without borders. so health first.
madam president! so water resources are being displaced and under increasing pressure virtually all over europe, so it doesn't matter what we do with water, and water scarcity can and does pose a major problem for the future of europe as well. so it's important that we also address the possibility of reusing water by so-called reuse of municipal water, for which we need, of course, the appropriate infrastructure, the appropriate mechanisms to purify this water, so that it can be reused, and this is an absolutely important resource, for crops, for reuse for sanitary purposes and, of course, in a way that certain structures can also be returned to nature, in short, so that it can be usefully used for infrastructural and agricultural purposes. above all, we must be careful to remove microplastics and residues of medicines from the water.
madam president! we have already had a great deal to say about the harmful effects of pesticides on human health and life. first of all, it is important to be aware that pesticide residues in food can pose a major risk to human health, and that pesticide residues in animal feed also pose a risk to animal health and, of course, enter the food chain. even the latest meat affair and the risks involved are too great to sweep under the carpet. there are other risks that have been expressed in terms of endocrine disruptors, important influences on genetic modification, and so i think that we should invest a lot more resources and of course research in so-called non-chemical methods and especially in these natural methods which have historically been that driving source and way of farming. and i think that's a re-examination of how to encourage small and medium-sized farms to feed as many percent of our population as possible.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, bosnia and herzegovina is a country of many contradictions. it's also a country that has a lot in common, and through its history, different valleys have been drawn, as was the case with the history of the drina river villa, and i highly recommend to all those who have not yet read the book by nobel prize winner andrić, the bridge on the drina, because it makes it even easier to understand this diversity and at the same time the art of coexistence and harmony. bosnia and herzegovina is moving towards european integration and, of course, there are a number of obstacles to be overcome on this difficult path. we all want the western balkan countries to become part of the european family, but there is also a process of adjustment and of course changes and reforms that will justify this path. there are different opinions or different views in this report before you, but what they have in common is that there is still a lot of things to be done, that there is still a lot of room for improvement, from the issues of corruption, of course, to organized crime, to reforms in the areas of justice, economy, social security, the treatment of minorities, to environmental challenges, to media freedom and education. but above all, i would like to conclude by saying this: when we talk about bosnia in particular, we must also think about the people who live there, of course, about their future, and this is something that, despite the differences, the politicians must also be aware of, because a strong bosnia is, of course, a strong europe.
mr president, i am pleased that we are discussing today the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. if ever, the country needs our help right now. the recent visit of three members of the presidency to brussels has renewed hope that, despite the many disagreements between the bosnian, croatian and serbian leaders, there is also much in common. the consensus on continuing the path of convergence with the european union was one of them. the promises of a joint leadership of bosnia and herzegovina are meaningless if they are not put into practice. the conditions to be met by the state are clear: the formation of a government as soon as possible, the delivery of answers to the commission's additional questions and the continuation of reforms, both in the area of the rule of law and in the socioeconomic field. in the last debate in the european parliament, i would like to draw attention to two more points. first, i call on my parliamentary colleagues and the member states not to forget the enlargement policy and bosnia and herzegovina in the year of the european elections, even if this does not bring political points. and secondly, i call on the leaders in bosnia to use the common objective of rapprochement with the union to overcome the differences between the different political and ethnic forces in the country.
mr president, mr prime minister, you speak of european coexistence, of a europe of solidarity, of a europe without divisions, and yet your minister for the interior and also the president of our parliament make statements that evoke fear, that evoke memories of hatred and horror. i'm talking about what happened a few days ago in bazovica. as if all the sacrifices were for nothing. in this way, mr president of the parliament, you are also destroying the cohesion, trampling on the values of the european union and, in fact, denying history. it is also an insult to all the sacrifices that were necessary for the people along the slovenian-italian border to live in peace today. such actions and words must be strongly condemned, and even after what we're getting from the homeland, i feel it's my duty to call for your resignation as well.
in writing. thank you for your invitation to relaunch the european project. but it is from your country that we hear the most dangerous, hostile views. the president of the european parliament tajani last weekend in bazovica with revisionist statements justifying fascism, greatly upset and frightened the slovenians. he has impermissibly distorted historical facts for the sake of awakening italian patriotism. the social democrats in slovenia have therefore already demanded yesterday that the president of the ep resign. mr. president tajani, your apology was a mockery. instead of regretting your statements, you accused us of misunderstanding you and fueled your impatience. that's not exactly a contribution to peace. with statements like that, you have lost all the credibility that a head of such an important institution should have. mr. president, how do you feel about the representatives of casa pound and their provocations against the slovenian students in gorica? i urge you to commit yourselves to a sincere policy of promoting peace and mutual understanding on both sides of the border. there is no place for fascism in the european union!
thank you, mr. chairman, and thank you to my colleague david for his excellent report. the partnership and cooperation between the european union and singapore goes beyond the protection of trade and investment, and includes a political partnership that will allow for deeper sectoral cooperation in key areas. the partnership provides a legal framework for stronger and broader cooperation, focusing on the themes of environmental protection, international stability, justice, security and development. the agreement also offers new opportunities for cooperation such as human rights, justice, freedom and security and nuclear disarmament, and scientific and technological cooperation in key areas, including health. this agreement will allow us to devote ourselves to the fight against cancer. and this agreement sets a precedent for deeper cooperation between the european union and singapore and the wider region of south east asia.
i was very happy to support the common provisions on cohesion funds, because cohesion policy is the policy that gives effect to the principle of solidarity in europe. with this policy, we build highways, railways, roads, water, sewage. we are getting closer to the little man, and through this policy, which is the european union's bond, every individual is also getting to know the european union's interests. i am glad that we have managed in parliament to increase the funding for this cohesion policy back to the level it was in the previous cohesion policy, because the european commission's proposal, which reduced this policy by 14%, is totally unacceptable to me. the key now is to do everything we can to make this policy as simple as possible in the trialogue, because the complexity of european policy is a big problem for the member states too. however, member states must ensure that they are trained at national, regional and municipal level so that there are no delays and slow disbursements of these funds. this is a major problem for the european union if these funds are not used quickly enough.
in writing. every time we pass new tax legislation at european level, voters ask me what will be new. whether we will finally be able to catch those who skillfully hide their profits in tax havens, or whether the new measures will only be a new obstacle for micro-entrepreneurs who already struggle with bureaucracy on a daily basis. i have my doubts too, about whether we'll ever get to the green branch. with the development of markets and businesses, areas are opening up to us that are not covered by tax legislation. clever tax advisers are always one step ahead of us, and they take care of the dishonesty in taxation. however, i would like to take this opportunity to commend the commission for its efforts to ensure that this is not the case, and at the same time to remind the member states to respect the rules they adopt at european level, as this is the only way to maintain confidence in the european project.
mr president, as we know, the world is increasingly connected, increasingly digitised, and just as the digital union is a challenge for the european union, so security in the european union is a common challenge for us. our systems, from energy to transportation to health care to bank deposits to, ultimately, elections, and ultimately, individuals, are increasingly vulnerable. i've been a victim of identity theft myself recently, so i know very well what it means, what can happen to you as an individual or to the european union as a whole. i strongly support what we are doing with this legislative package, that the european union has a unified, organised approach, because the individual country will certainly not be able to resist cyber threats. i had the opportunity to be in israel this autumn, which is even more exposed than europe, and there i could see firsthand what a country of 10 million people is doing, and i very much support this comprehensive package, because the future of europe depends to a large extent on successful cybersecurity.
mr president, the great concentration of trade, the exploitation of the small farmer, and consequently the problems of consumers have brought this european parliament together in this assembly, which will be happy to endorse the excellent report by mr de castro, for which i thank him. the resolution drawn up by mrs mcguinness was confirmed and i thank you, commissioner, for your contribution, which was courageous and also persistent enough to bring the directive back to us in a short time, together with the austrian presidency and our former colleague mrs köstinger, so that it could enter into force. as we know, it is now the member states' turn to incorporate this directive into their legal order within two years and to protect the farmer, to protect the consumer against unfair commercial practices. sixteen of them are enshrined here, and many more can be enshrined by member states, if they so deem it, and ensure that a sustainable food supply chain will prevail in the future. there were far too many farms that had to leave this market because the income, the income, the earnings were not distributed fairly. the fact that only 21% of the income is left to the direct food producers is frightening, and i hope and believe that today is also a clear signal to the consumer, to the trader, that in the future this arrangement will be more fair to those who work in agriculture.
mr. prime minister, you mentioned 1989. we saw europe divided then. today, we do not have a very unified european union. mr juncker has invited you to pay attention to the dialogue within the high four. i am curious to know what you see as the key specifics of central europe and what should be the main topic of discussion with the rest of europe?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. more than 80 million europeans have waited a long time for this much-needed act. first of all, i'd like to thank the reporter for his important work and cooperation. and i have to say, of course, that this act is also extremely important because it makes it easier for disabled people and also for the elderly to access both services and goods and appliances. but this is just the first step. think about it, this document, this directive, of course, has not achieved everything that we had hoped for. a lot of things have been left open, particularly with the built environment, but also with some other things that are important. but it's a start. it is the beginning of something that gives hope to show that the european parliament also understands the needs of people and that it understands the need to become an inclusive society for all.
rapporteur. – madam president, i will use my six minutes at the beginning and i will speak in slovene. evropska unija se je v zadnjih letih soočila s številnimi izzivi, ki so močno načeli zaupanje državljanov v evropske politike. porast populizma in nacionalizma je posledica, da se evropske vlade niso uspele sporazumeti o učinkoviti evropski migracijski politiki. stiske migrantov in beguncev, pomanjkanje evropske solidarnosti in skupnih rešitev, skrajno desna politika z lažmi in ustrahovanjem vse bolj izkorišča za nabiranje političnih točk. to vse bolj vnaša razdor in nezaupanje med državljane in države, na kocko pa postavlja prihodnost schengena in unije na splošno. dovolj je, da pogledamo v sosednjo avstrijo in še ostalih 5 držav schengenskega območja. te, kljub številnim dodatnim ukrepom za zaščito zunanjih meja ter občutnemu zmanjšanju števila pribežnikov na evropska tla, že več kot tri leta neupravičeno in nezakonito podaljšujejo nadzor na notranjih mejah. slovenkam in slovencem danes težko pojasnim, zakaj jih organi pregledujejo na karavankah ali na meji med avstrijo in nemčijo. ali nam bo uspelo ohraniti schengen kot prostor svobode gibanja in brez meja znotraj unije, ki je simbol evropskega povezovanja, je danes predvsem odvisno od politične modrosti in odgovornosti naših voditeljev. zdi pa se mi, da te modrosti in odgovornosti ni dovolj. seveda za varne zunanje meje unije, ki so pogoj, potrebujemo tudi zadostna in učinkovita finančna sredstva. vesela sem, da danes razpravljamo o predlogu, po katerem bi v skupni evropski blagajni v naslednjih sedmih letih za meje in za vizume namenili več kot 9 milijard evrov. to je kar petkrat več kot do sedaj. to je zelo veliko denarja, če ga smiselno uporabimo. tovrstni finančni instrumenti so izjemno pomembni za evropske državljane, saj evropske politike prevajajo v konkretne ukrepe. in tako tudi najbolj neposredno evropejci občutimo evropo. ob tem še posebej pozdravljam, da bo vsaj 70 milijonov evrov za različne ukrepe na voljo tudi moji državi sloveniji, ki upravlja z eno izmed najbolj obremenjenih kopenskih schengenskih meja, zlasti v poletnih mesecih. finančni instrument bo zagotovil podporo ukrepom držav članic in ima dva ključna stebra. prvi je integrirano upravljanje z mejami, kamor sodijo nadzor kopenskih, zračnih in morskih meja, vključno z iskanjem ljudi in reševanjem na morju; preprečevanje nezakonitih prehodov; boj proti čezmejnemu kriminalu ter razvoj in izvajanje informacijskih mejnih sistemov za nadzor potnikov in blaga. na drugi strani bo finančni instrument podpiral države članice pri izvajanju skupne vizumske politike. od celotne finančne ovojnice bo 60 odstotkov sredstev namenjenih nacionalnim programom državam članicam ter 40 odstotkov za ukrepe, ki jih bo neposredno financirala unija. instrument tako zagotavlja finančno podporo za izvajanje politik, ki temeljijo na solidarnosti in pravični delitvi odgovornosti med državami članicami ter krepitvi medsebojnega zaupanja. v pogajanjih nam je uspelo zagotoviti tudi, kar sem posebej vesela, da bo najmanj 20 odstotkov sredstev namenjenih prav vizumski politiki ter lajšanju prehajanja meja dobronamernim potnikom, ki ne predstavljajo nobene grožnje uniji ali državam članicam. schengen oziroma potovanje brez pregledov na mejah in dolgih čakalnih dob je namreč eden izmed največjih uspehov in najoprijemljivejših dosežkov unije tako za državljane kot za podjetja. schengen je tudi eden izmed najpomembnejših sredstev, s katerimi lahko evropski državljani uveljavljajo temeljne svoboščine do prostega pretoka, notranji trg pa lahko uspeva in se razvija. uspelo nam je prav tako močno okrepiti določbe glede spoštovanja človekovih pravic in temeljnih svoboščin. z uveljavitvijo vse več pametnih informacijskih tehnologij in sistemov na mejah se je denimo močno povečala nevarnost po kršenju zasebnosti ter vse bolj okrepila potreba po celostni zaščiti in varovanju osebnih podatkov. in to nam je uspelo. podobno smo tudi okrepili določbe, ki države članice pri izvajanju ukrepov vselej obvezujejo k spoštovanju mednarodnega in evropskega prava, še posebej načela prepovedi vračanja. v zvezi z upravljanjem meja, tudi v tako imenovanih žariščnih točkah oziroma hot spotih, pa smo uspeli izboljšati določbo o spoštovanju pravice do mednarodne zaščite ter še posebej pravice glede varstva ranljivih skupin, kot so otroci. sklad za meje in vize, o katerem govorimo nocoj, je eden izmed ključnih instrumentov, namenjenih podpori izvajanju politik znotraj unije. v parlamentu zato vztrajamo, jaz kot poročevalka, da dodeljena sredstva v prihodnjih sedmih letih ne bodo namenjena financiranju programov v tretjih državah. evropsko upravljanje z mejami nikakor ni povezano z ustanavljanjem centrov za pridržanje ali izkrcanje migrantov v tretjih državah ali s prenosom upravljanja evropskih meja na tretje države. in nazadnje še to. za večjo preglednost predlagamo večjo vključenost civilne družbe ter lokalnih in regionalnih oblasti v procesu priprave nacionalnih programov. za večji demokratični nadzor pa večjo vlogo evropskega parlamenta glede porabe denarja. upam, da boste kolegi lahko jutri to poročilo tudi sprejeli.
madam president, the european leaders will shake up the economy. but that's not enough. it is high time to link the economy with environmental protection and to protect workers where jobs are disappearing. that's what the young people tell us, the people. after the vote in the british parliament, we can only hope that there will be no hard brexit. this, ladies and gentlemen, will be the last summit before the european elections and the responsibility is therefore even greater. our citizens expect action, but i fear that opportunity will be missed again. let's just look at the failed immigration policy. we have passed all the legislation in parliament to ensure the effective management of migration and secure borders, the fault lies with european governments and nationalist policies. and we need to point fingers at you. we know the leaders of the countries that are the biggest obstacles to european solutions to migration. their reasons are populist, they take the rest of the union hostage everything on the basis of intimidation. and what is the conscience of those leaders who ignore the concerns of the people? migration has been europe's top concern for five years running. what kind of faces do they put in front of the voters? i hope that this time the voters will choose courage and, by voting for a sensible, different, progressive, socially just europe, prove that dangerous populism, nationalism and cowardice are not the values of europe and that we truly deserve a different future.
madam president, we have made progress as a community, of course, but the situation varies greatly from country to country. the recipe for success is to keep the economy in good shape, and of course that can only be achieved by a very well thought-out investment and tax policy. it is important that member states follow these guidelines and also ensure the urgently needed social reforms. at european union level, more attention should also be paid to demographic change and to providing a family-friendly environment. i regret that housing policy is not included among the priorities of the european commission. in some countries, housing availability, especially for young families, is very poor. european families are the foundation of development and of our societies. but the birth rate in the european union is falling, and several member states have not yet taken the necessary measures in this area, even though our future depends on the next generations. so i suggest we pay more attention to this.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to take this minute to emphasize just one thing, and that is health. sustainable development cannot be achieved without greater attention to health, and both rapporteurs, one of whom is a doctor, spoke of the need for integrity. health is not just an aspect or a sector, it is a dimension that touches on many of the sub-goals of our sustainable development strategy. health trends are a cause for concern and sectoral strategies to achieve the objectives need to be integrated into an integrated strategy in which health is a key element. we can't be the leading force for sustainable development in a world with more cancer, with more diabetes, with more other diseases that we know the statistics for. so i want ambition towards stronger health for all of europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, please welcome our dear commissioner. we have discussed this subject many times in this parliament. it is clear that this is not the most important issue in the world, nor in europe, but it is of course very important because of the aspects we have mentioned here, from the health, also the economic and many others that we have witnessed in recent debates. i think, however, as the imco committee has confirmed, that we support the effort to abandon the clock, but we also point out that we must also assess all the consequences of this change, which will certainly affect many sectors, including the transport sector, and also a certain sector of the economy. and so there's a need for a certain time frame to adjust to this change. it is also true that we must do everything possible to avoid a disruption of the european internal market and to try to achieve as much unity as possible and to anticipate this rainbow of changes.
mr president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. i welcome the change and i want to stop moving the clock as soon as possible. the reasons for this are not just economic. the first concern must be man and the question of what artificial time-shifting means for his physical and mental health. research suggests that people with heart disease have a higher risk of heart attack. there are problems with adjusting to the human biological rhythm. people are sleep deprived, their ability to concentrate is reduced, accidents at work are increased. tired or sleepless drivers cause traffic accidents in the first period after the clock changes. even if the difference is only one hour, it can have a negative effect on people's overall well-being. there are obvious reasons why we should stop moving the clock, and the citizens want that too. however, the transition to the new regime should not create any additional difficulties. the purpose of the proposal is to make people's lives easier. no one wants ten neighboring countries to have ten different time arrangements. so back to nature and more coordination at eu level. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. so i rely on the research gathered by my professional colleagues and i trust them to find the right facts and make the right arguments.
madam president, just as we have the right to free speech on the internet, we also have the right to copyright protection. cultural content and independent journalism are important building blocks of modern society. in the debate on this directive, some have tried to show that these two rights are mutually exclusive. but that's not true. a compromise must be found between them, which was successfully concluded by the rapporteur, axel voss, after many years of work and taking into account a number of points of concern. in it, we focused only on the biggest platforms that actually make a lot of money from promoting copyrighted content online and don't want to share it with the authors. if we want to survive independent journalism, independent music, independent film, if we want to maintain quality, then we have to take a step forward. this directive will not solve all the problems, but the dominance of the us tech giants on the world wide web is at least a start. i'm going to stand with the creativity, the creativity, and support this document because it's about fairness on the internet.
mr president, the regional fund and the cohesion fund are the key funds with which we are closing the development gap in europe. it is safe to say that they are also the bond of the european union. i therefore support the committee's view that there should be no reduction in the resources for these two funds. otherwise we will not be able to carry out this essential function in europe. i strongly support all efforts to green, innovative new jobs, to the transition to energy efficiency. i am glad that my amendment was also adopted, that 5% of the regional fund's resources should be allocated to rural areas and within this, 2.4 billion for the smart villages project. there is a trend in europe of internal migration, which is emptying the countryside and moving people to richer, more developed areas. and in this way, with this measure, we're also addressing those problems. creating new jobs in rural areas, strengthening new mobility models where there is no public transport in rural areas. on the other hand, modern, modern agricultural production, rural tourism, decentralised social jobs, where care for the elderly can be provided in the countryside, and often of a better quality, than in the big cities. e-health, decentralized energy, all of these are opportunities that we bring together in this set of smart village initiatives. they are also following all other renewable energy policies, digitisation, and i am convinced that this is a move in the right direction. that's why i'm going to support this motion.
mr president, the copyright directive is certainly needed, we all need it, and most of all, of course, the authors. however, it is clear that this directive is not a victory for anyone and in fact turns the internet into a place of robotic censorship at the behest of the internet giants. and just over a week after the european commission's second astronomical fine against google for abuse of its market position, this copyright directive once again leaves room for abuse and interference with rights and market relations. in particular, we have consistently pointed out the very unclear role of so-called robotic censors or censorship filters and the fact that these filters could profoundly interfere with the rights of internet users. and i fear that this directive, in its implementation, will turn into its opposite in terms of its purpose and actually limit the role of the internet as we know it and also stifle the creativity that europe needs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this instrument has long been important for promoting the values and principles of the european union. i strongly support the ambition to link external financing instruments and also to strengthen flexibility for future development, which must not come at the expense of democratic accountability and control mechanisms. i support the amendments proposed by mr preda and the group of the european people's party, which call for a separate instrument for the neighbourhood policy and stress the political importance of relations between the union and its neighbouring countries. our neighbourhood policy should receive special attention, distinguishing it from the other components of our development policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. madam president, this is an important instrument for pre-accession assistance, which has proved to be very necessary in the past. it is true, however, that ipa iii is based on new principles which need to be supported, and that this approach to objectives, which is oriented towards the allocation of resources and which also promotes efficiency and, of course, the economic viability of the funds, can also have certain pitfalls. and that is precisely what i would like to stress, since the candidate countries have so far had instruments in their programmes which are based on the previous experience of ipa i and ipa ii, there will be a lot of work to be done to adapt to these new principles, and, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of the reality: the commission will have to make an intensive contribution to education, awareness-raising and, above all, to improving the mechanisms, precisely in order for these instruments to achieve their objective. and it is also very commendable that this approach involves the non-governmental sector, which can make a significant contribution, given its experience, to how to use these funds as effectively as possible. and this approach also allows for better regional cooperation, and i see a great opportunity here for both the european commission and the european parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the instrument for pre-accession assistance is designed to help candidate and potential candidate countries on their way to membership of the european union. through this instrument, the union aims to achieve improvements, in particular in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i am one of those who see the accession of the western balkan countries as a necessary step towards securing peace on the european continent. the european project will not be completed until the countries which are historically and geographically part of europe become members of the european union. this funding also aims to prepare the beneficiary countries for successful participation in the european union's cohesion policy after accession. one of the most important areas on which the instrument must focus is institution building, preventing corruption within state institutions and increasing their efficiency is key to building citizens' trust
mr president, thank you for the floor. i would like to present an oral amendment to one of my own amendment no 123 concerning article 7(5)(g). i would like to replace the words ‘the fight against climate change’ with the words ‘tackling climate change’, in agreement with the two co-rapporteurs. thank you for the consideration.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i heard mr huitema saying that he’s worked very hard and ms gardini saying she worked very consistently, and the result is here. it’s a great result for improving the regulation on fertilising products. i would like to thank the rapporteurs mr ţurcanu, ms gardini and mr huitema, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for all their valuable input to this file. this regulation contributes to the implementation of circular economy principles as far as nutrients for agricultural production are concerned. the current eu regulation on fertiliser only covers fertilisers from mineral materials, as you have said. the new regulation will introduce a new legislative framework and therefore considerably simplify the current legislative framework for inorganic fertilisers. the new regulation will be a huge step towards opening the single market to innovative products, made out of organic by—products and recoverable waste. of course these products must be produced under strict conditions to ensure they are safe for our health and the environment. i’m also very glad this really seems to affect small and medium—sized enterprises a lot, which is a good thing and something we want to improve. organic fertilisers represent half of the fertilisers’ market in the eu. they have an enormous potential to make european agriculture more efficient and sustainable and help create jobs and opportunities for emerging businesses in the eu. with your vote today, we will bring these products within our european regulation and hence allow them access to the single market. at the same time this regulation provides safeguards to protect public health and the environment. it would also set mandatory limits for contaminants in fertilising products such as mercury, arsenic, nickel and in particular cadmium. it is good that we will now have a common limit with regard to cadmium, and after four years of its application we will assess whether this limit can be reduced. so we’re moving in the right direction. the compromise reflects a fair balance of all the diverging interests. we strongly believe that it will be a win—win—win: a win for the eu fertilisers industry, which will benefit from easier access to the single market for innovative products and a more diverse range of cost—competitive raw materials; a win for farmers, who can choose from an increased diversity of fertilisers, who can supply their own raw material to fertiliser manufacturers and who will be in a much better position to protect their soil from toxic contaminants; and, most importantly, a win for the health and well—being of eu citizens and our natural environment, as the risk of food and water contamination with toxic substances will decrease. finally, i know the importance that this house attaches to the question of defining safe criteria for replacing chemical fertilisers with processed manure. the fertilising products regulation is part of the circular economy action plan, as it substantially contributes to the implementation of circular economy principles in the sector of nutrients for agricultural production. in parallel, under a different work stream, the commission is working to ensure an integrated and more sustainable management of nutrients to reduce inefficiencies and avoid nutrients pollution, which can affect human health and the environment. the processing of manure offers possibilities for more efficient use of nutrients, from the agricultural as well as from the environmental point of view. this is why, via its joint research centre, the commission launched a project in 2017. it includes literature review, modelling and experimental work to define the conditions under which replacing chemical nitrogen containing chemical fertilisers by processed manure in agriculture applications does not entail additional environmental risks. as an aside, i really admire the translators here today. this work is ongoing and a draft study report should be presented in principle by the end of 2019. as these criteria concern the use of fertilisers, and not their placement on the market, they are not affected by the fertilising products regulation and not expected to affect the implementation of that regulation. however, they certainly constitute an additional and complementary action to foster an efficient and environmentally safe circular economy. to conclude, allow me to reaffirm our full support for the compromise found. we count on you today to take an important step in building a circular economy for the eu fertilising products industry and ensuring that these products are safe for our health and the environment. this is also another important concrete step towards implementing the un sustainable development goals and building a sustainable european future, which has become more urgent than ever. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president thank you for your words. i am also pleased that after three years of negotiations, including a difficult trialogue, we have been able to conclude this process. the process whereby we add organic fertilisers to the regulations that have so far governed mainly mineral fertilisers, and as we know, this is one of the first packages of circular economy that we've had on our table. because the goal is to increase the organic fertilizer content and not throw away the much-needed nutrients that are hidden in these organic things. as has been said here today, it is truly absurd that compost has now been treated as something that needed to be disposed of properly, rather than used as fertilizer. but to do this, and to apply the rule to the whole of europe, we needed this regulation, which sets out the parameters that also ensure that the environmental impact of such organic fertilisers is of high quality. we've also cleared the area around the heavy metal. it is also a very difficult area, which has finally found an acceptable compromise, which is still, as we have heard, the most ambitious in the whole world. i am also very happy to support the part here devoted to innovation and opportunities for small businesses, which have really been excluded from this single european market. and on the basis of this regulation, which will be implemented and will be in force in three years, progress will also be made here. i mean, we've made a good step for the environment, for agriculture, for the circular economy, so this proposal will have my support.
rapporteur. – mr president, today in this house we are once again discussing visa liberalisation for kosovo. it is a very sensitive and very difficult topic because kosovo is the last country of the western balkans that still hasn’t seen visas abolished for free travel to the european union. i would like to remind us all that kosovo met all the requirements for a visa-free regime a long time ago, and this house, the european parliament, also gave the green light for kosovo’s visa-free regime a while ago. the european commission recognised that kosovo has met all the criteria, and i would like to remind you that kosovo had more conditions than any other countries of the western balkans. kosovo met the last two remaining sensitive issues some months ago – one was to ratify the demarcation of the border agreement with montenegro – which were highly sensitive and political issues. but they managed to achieve it, including with a fight against corruption in high political elites. that’s why i strongly recommend that tomorrow we reconfirm visa liberalisation for this country. to be very frank, today all the other countries of the western balkans have visa—free regimes. it is a very important message for the citizens of the accession countries because it is not only important for political and economic contacts, but it is important for people—to-people contacts. today kosovo is the most isolated country in the western balkans. we are just talking about visa liberalisation. i don’t want to discuss other issues that kosovo is dealing with today because, with intention, we have to focus on what kosovo has delivered. so today i will, with all my criticism, point to the european governments and say that didn’t deliver their promise. their promise was that, once kosovo meets the criteria, we will deliver a visa-free regime. i would like to ask the council – and no one is present here – why they didn’t put it on the agenda, and when they are planning to put it on the agenda. we are losing our credibility. to be very frank, politicians, businessmen or potential criminals don’t wait for visas. they travel freely. what we are discussing is visa-free travel for those who are in need, with certain limitations of course. visa-free travel has certain limitations and people in kosovo are aware of that. the campaign is ongoing and we have to deliver what we promised. i would remind you that, in other cases – when we delivered visa liberalisation to ukraine or to other countries overnight – it was an easy political decision, and now the european governments are blocking a little country in the western balkans without real reasons. so i would encourage us all, because we are finishing our term in office, to reconfirm tomorrow the mandate you already gave me and this is that we support visa—free for kosovo. once again, the country has met all the conditions. the european commission recognised that, but today it is the european governments that aren’t acting. we have too many cases today where the european governments are blocking our credible european policies and visa policy is something that is really at the heart of europeans. it is something that is very tangible. i understand the frustration of citizens in kosovo when they feel that we asked them to deliver something and they did deliver, but now we aren’t acting. not the european parliament. we did our task, but the task is now in the hands of the european governments. so my message to you tomorrow, when we vote for the mandate and reconfirm it and conclude the first reading, is: please support it because people in kosovo are watching us and they are watching us with great expectations and hopes.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome this debate on visa liberalisation for the people of kosovo, and i would like to express once again my thanks to our rapporteur, ms fajon, for her continued work, personal engagement and efforts to support this proposal. since launching the visa liberalisation dialogue in 2012, the commission has closely worked with kosovo to support the authorities in fulfilling all the benchmarks of the visa roadmap. we acknowledged, in our final report of 4 may 2016, that kosovo had taken important steps towards the visa-free regime. this is why we proposed, as you remember, to lift the visa requirements for the people of kosovo on the understanding that, by the day of adoption of the proposal by parliament and council, kosovo would have ratified the border demarcation agreement with montenegro and strengthened its track record in the fight against organised crime and corruption. two years later, on 18 july 2018, following the necessary efforts and progress, the commission confirmed that kosovo has fulfilled all benchmarks of the visa liberalisation roadmap, including the two previously outstanding requirements. subsequently, we called on the council and the parliament to move forward with our proposal. i would like to thank this house for the swift support it has given to our proposal. let me recall that the conclusion of the border demarcation agreement with montenegro is a huge step forward, and it was not easy, even though this is politically sensitive, and we should say so. a number of member states voiced concerns about the migratory risks posed by the citizens of kosovo and the need to learn from the past. i am aware of these concerns, and i can understand them. kosovo is also aware of them and is cooperating and in touch with several member states directly to mitigate the risk. we have encouraged, and will continue to encourage, the kosovo authorities to continue, first of all, to implement all the benchmarks; second, to strengthen their anti-corruption and rule of law framework; and third, to keep up the work on migration and security, as well as the need to clearly communicate with citizens about their rights and obligations under a visa-free regime. dear colleagues, let me recall that kosovo is the only western balkan partner that does not benefit from a visa facilitation agreement, and its citizens are the only ones in the region who need a visa to travel to the european union. i have said plenty of times that the visa-free regime comes with rights and obligations, and the kosovo authorities are well aware of this. they have done their part of the work, and i trust they will continue doing so. i count on the members of this house to help encourage the council to also come to the negotiating table soon and agree on the proposal swiftly.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, as the permanent rapporteur on kosovo for the afet committee, i can say that kosovo is going through a very challenging period. and despite the fact that they were able to ratify the border with montenegro a year ago, which was a special effort to achieve internal consensus, and despite the fact that the european union claimed that this was the last missing criterion in the process of obtaining visa liberalisation, and that kosovo fulfilled this condition regarding progress in the fight against crime and, of course, corruption, the european union again claimed that this was the last missing criterion in the process of obtaining visa liberalisation. but in that time, until today, what should have happened in that area has not happened. and although the european commission and we have given the green light to visa liberalisation, this item has still not been put on the council's agenda. and you know, when you have two partners and one of them fulfills his part of the obligation and the other one doesn't, the other one loses his credibility. and i think we have a responsibility to the people of kosovo to do that.
blue-card question. – dear agustín, i also have had very good cooperation with you and i know you are a good legal expert. i have a question for you and it’s along the same lines. i have had contact with the representatives of all the five states that do not recognise kosovo, and in fact, my colleague is right. it’s about recognising travel documents, and not statehood. they are willing to agree on visa liberalisation for kosovo. just to remind you – and maybe you can answer this too – do you know that in 2009 we agreed on a visa—free regime for taiwan, despite there being no recognition on the eu side of taiwan’s statehood?
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for all the support to shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues that believe kosovo today deserves visa liberalisation, and thank you to the commissioner. to others that still have some doubts, i say that for visa liberalisation the recognition of statehood is not a condition. there is only a need to recognise the travel documents. increased radicalisation has nothing to do with limited visa-free travel for – mostly – young people and for tourist purposes. but, yes, increased radicalisation can be a result of kosovo’s isolation and the growing despair that the eu has failed to deliver on its promise. once again, kosovo has met all the benchmarks set by the european commission – even more than the other countries of the western balkans. the european commission has recognised that, the european parliament has that, and if you today say kosovo is not fulfilling the conditions, you are simply lying. you are simply behaving irresponsibly. i urge the eu governments to respect the treaties, to take a decision on visa waiver for kosovo, with a qualified majority. the council does not need unanimity. stop these games and shameful political purposes, and act now. tomorrow we will vote in order to secure a first reading procedure in parliament. this is not the final vote, but it is an important vote to point a finger at eu governments, showing we in the european parliament are ready. this is our message again tomorrow. we are keeping our promise, now it is up to you to show your credibility, to show that you care for young people, that you care for young families and for a young country that for far too long has been isolated. (applause)
the reporter. the president, my dear colleagues, the honourable commissioner thyssen. erasmus+ is a symbol of european integration, a symbol of a europe that cares for young people, a europe that cares for citizens and a true european success story. since 1987, more than 9 million students, pupils, trainees, teachers, youth workers, adults and athletes have participated in the programme. the program is breaking records year after year, funding more projects every year, participation is increasing. it is estimated that around 4 million europeans will participate in erasmus in various forms during this period. the commission has also proposed to increase the number of participants by up to 12 million for the period 2021-2027. these figures sound good, but we know that between 2014 and 2020, erasmus will only be able to support 3.7% of young people in europe. so, in erasmus, the demand is huge, but the money is always too little. it's about mobility, and it's about a lot of other projects. if students were to get higher scholarships, there would be a lot more applications for the exchange. if more funds were available, we wouldn't have to turn down so many good, quality youth projects. that's why i've proposed a threefold increase in funding, from 15 to 45 billion euros, for the period 2021-2027, that is, for the next financial budget, the perspective. if we want to triple the number of participants, if we want to add three major new initiatives and if we want to make the programme more accessible, then doubling the funding as proposed by the european commission will not be enough. in preparing the report on the new erasmus, i wanted to focus on strengthening and improving the traditional activities or sub-programmes, including mobility and the different projects. at the same time, i wanted to secure the three major new initiatives, namely the discover the european union initiative, the european university network and the centres of excellence, which will be part of the programme after 2021. compared with the commission's proposal, we in parliament proposed a substantial increase in funding for vocational training, schools, sport and adults. let me mention a few other innovations that we have supported and improved in parliament. the new erasmus will offer more opportunities for smaller projects and smaller organisations that have had difficulty accessing the programme until now. the new erasmus will bring more opportunities for learning foreign languages, for the mobility of pupils and teachers in schools, for the mobility of pre-school educators, and more mobility opportunities and projects for adults. the new mobility will also be for sports coaches and individual athletes. as the report shows, one of my main priorities in the next cycle was to make the programme more user-friendly and inclusive, accessible and fair for all groups of young and old, regardless of economic situation and other circumstances, e.g. disability. for those who have difficulty accessing the programme, people with fewer opportunities, we have proposed a series of specific measures. on the one hand, better information and, on the other, financial support if necessary. the report has emphasised the importance of european added value, but this does not mean that all activities have to be transnational. we also called for a greater role for parliament, so that it is not the european commission alone that sets and decides on the priorities each year. the new erasmus will also enable virtual and mixed cooperation, in addition to financial mobility, which we of course support. at the same time, we want transparency, to keep separate records for physical, i.e. real, mobility activities and virtual mobility activities. we do not want to inflate the numbers by saying how many people in europe are mobile, when many are actually sitting at home at a computer. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. our negotiations were not easy, but the end result is all the better.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate. thank you, colleagues, for this debate, in which many of you have stressed that erasmus+ is, after all, a building block of european identity. some objected to this. however, i would like to emphasise that erasmus+ also supports the formation of personal, regional and even national identities, and that this is not excluded from european identity. erasmus is part of the 'investing in people' chapter of the budget. i believe that investing in erasmus is also investing in the future of europe, and so i would like to end by once again calling on the european commission and the member states to support a tripling of the budget in the trilogue. member states often hesitate to increase funding for european programmes, especially for so-called soft policies such as education or youth. but let me remind you that last year the european council placed erasmus+ among the four main priorities for the period after 2020, alongside security, defence and migration. i therefore call on the member states to remember this commitment. i am aware that negotiations with the commission and the council will not be easy, this is by far the largest increase in funding for any programme. i am grateful to all the political groups who have supported this joint effort, and i believe that the european parliament's negotiator will have a strong mandate. the trialogue should ideally be concluded by the end of 2019 or at least in the first half of 2020, thus allowing for a smooth transition from the current to the future long-term budget. this would enable almost one million people to go abroad in 2021 and allow the smooth implementation of 100 000 projects.
the rapporteur. - mr president! my fellow officers! the schengen area is one of the most important and tangible achievements of european integration, bringing many benefits to european citizens and the economy, and allowing the free movement of people and goods. due to the many challenges that the union has faced and overcome in recent years, six schengen states have been implementing internal border controls for more than three and a half years. these controls are illegal, disproportionate and unnecessary, because the reasons for them no longer exist and schengen is today in real danger. leaving the eu could cost the eu as much as €18 billion a year, a sum no country can afford. we therefore adopted in parliament an ambitious reform of the rules to restore the lost trust between member states and to re-establish free movement without internal controls. despite the sincere intentions of the negotiators, neither the member states nor the european commission were prepared to accept any compromise. moreover, any minimal progress was blocked by the nations. as a rapporteur, as a citizen, i strongly condemn the council's slovenian and european attitude today. it is unacceptable that schengen should be held hostage today because of internal political interests and a desire to do nothing. the commission is also pleased with the status quo, which does not want to assume its obligations and take legal action against the infringing states today while the legislative proposal is on the table. i call on you, colleagues, to support this report by a large majority and to send a message to the citizens today that we care about the freedom of movement.
madam president, the peace process has been in crisis for a long time. the concept of two states, or two nations in two states, is also becoming less and less plausible, and i can say that israel's position has changed a lot in this context: the united states, the american military has left the region, iran is becoming more aggressive, israel is not recognized by political, key players like hamas, and so on. however, i would like to call for the european union to play a more proactive role in this process. but we should not allow the united states to support israel on the one hand and the european union to support only palestine. the european union must be a key player or one of the key players, and therefore also a negotiator, and by no means a mere payer.
mr president, commissioner, distinguished colleagues. there's a chapter in the document called "we need more energy". i'd like to headline the chapter we need more health! health trends in europe are worrying: one in three citizens can expect to develop cancer. and we cannot make more europe with less health and more cancer. health is not a sector or an aspect, but it is a dimension of our future, and i'm much more interested in health than in brexit, which will be sorted out somehow. surveys show that 70% of europeans want the european union to do more in the area of health and prevention. and the people are right. and we already know enough to do more. as a former patient and as chair of the european parliament's group on cancer, i am very pleased to welcome the ambition to include cancer prevention among the five strategic priorities to be funded by horizon europe.
madam president, my esteemed colleagues, mr. vice president. i congratulate mr de grandes on a very good and difficult job and welcome the changes to european legislation on the supplementary protection certificate for medicines. a major success of the compromise we have ensured both the development of new medicines in europe and a level playing field for generic and similar biological medicines manufacturers based in europe and those based elsewhere. we have allowed european generic manufacturers to export to third countries where there is no valid supplementary protection certificate, and we have also made it much easier for them to enter the european market on the first day after the expiry of the certificate. respected, drug prices and the cost of treatment have risen so much in recent decades that they have become virtually unaffordable for new patients. faster access to the european market therefore means faster access to affordable medicines for our people. with this legislative proposal, we have once again demonstrated that the european union is working, that it cares about a sick person who needs our help.
mr president, mr president of the latvian government, i admire you not because you became president, but because of the way you became president considering that you were a member of a very small, marginal political party, you nevertheless gathered an extremely important majority to be able to lead the latvian government effectively today. i know the answer because you exude confidence, credibility, honesty and, above all, competence. you're a success story, just like the country you run. now the million euro question: you live in a country like me, slovenia, which is also in transition, and the rule of law is always a very pressing issue. in my country, after the great court farce called patria, another one called dr. novich has erupted, given that the court wrongfully convicted a scientist of murder. i believe that other countries, countries in transition, also have problems with justice, but i would ask you, however, whether you think that the european union should intervene in such cases with some appropriate mechanism, when fundamental human rights and freedoms are being violated, particularly in countries in transition.
good afternoon, dear christian. it's so good to see you again. we shared some great moments as colleagues in the european parliament and i was very impressed with your speech. the slovenian prime minister also had the opportunity to speak here in parliament today, but he turned it down, and so thank you for this fantastic closing speech in this episode of the heads of government talking about the future of europe. you come from a country with a difficult history, and your own is presented as the story of a migrant child, and that's why i'm fascinated by this belonging to the european union, the idea of the common market, of common development, of common power, on the other hand, of freedom and all that has been said. i support what has been said that europe needs to be developed in all areas, including research, jobs, and my question is therefore related to the multiannual financial framework. is there enough understanding among the heads of government, especially those who are net payers, that the institution of solidarity that we are implementing through the agricultural policy as well as the cohesion policy is worth paying 1.3% into the budget of the european union and that this bond of the european union will continue to keep europe connected and make it more successful and more beautiful? thank you for your answer.
mr president, i agree that we need to better protect the external borders of the european union. this is also because it is essential for the safer functioning of the schengen area and for more efficient migration management. i support the informal agreement between the countries in april to strengthen the mandate of frontex and i will vote today for new rules to establish a permanent 10,000-strong border and coast guard and return expert force by 2027. it is important that member states retain primary responsibility for the management of their borders. but my concern remains whether we have sufficiently safeguarded the fundamental rights of those individuals who will be returned to third countries by frontex. the socialists and democrats have reached the conclusion that it is essential for frontex to conclude additional agreements in order to avoid human rights violations in third countries such as those in the western balkans. and in closing, i'd like to remind you all once again. the new rules on external borders alone will not preserve freedom of movement within the union if we do not accept them for schengen.
mr president, i am pleased that there is agreement in the european parliament that the external borders of the european union must be protected and that this is a guarantee for peace and stability in europe and for the functioning of the schengen system within the european union. unfortunately, in 2015, not everyone was united on this issue, and in three years, there was this realization that illegal migration simply needs to be stopped. i am convinced that the following steps are needed: to extend the powers of frontex so that it can also return people from third countries to third countries. i come from slovenia, where in 2015 there were ten thousand crossings per day, in those worst times, and even now there are more crossings from day to day, even a few tens per day, and this problem will be big in the future as well. it is therefore necessary to ensure that those coming from bosnia, serbia, can also be returned to third countries with the assistance of frontex.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am pleased that after four years of negotiations and the second proposal from the european commission, we have managed to establish new rules for obtaining visas. if adopted, the procedures for third-country travellers travelling to the union will be simplified, while the member state authorities will continue to play a decisive role. the european visa policy is of great importance as it facilitates people's travel, strengthens economic, tourist and cultural links and contributes significantly to the image of a strong but safe europe. let me just remind you what the visa abolition meant for the western balkan countries, although we are not talking about abolition, but still. it meant taking a series of important measures to combat trafficking in human beings, travel documents and border protection on the one hand and, on the other, ending the long and inhuman lines in front of travel consulates, especially for young people and tourists, whose doors to europe were virtually closed. visa policy is one of the most tangible european policies for people and it is essential that it remains credible, effective and in the interest of travellers. with the new rules we are adopting, visas will be obtained significantly faster and up to six months earlier. the price will also be more affordable, which i welcome, and there will be discounts for minors, students and researchers, and even free visas for children. the new system will also allow applications to be submitted electronically, which is essential in the digital age. but i am very sorry, as my colleague juan lópez aguilar has pointed out, that we have not been able to make a breakthrough in the humanitarian visa field. these would, i am convinced, reduce the deaths of innocent civilians along the migration routes. unfortunately, we are failing to open legal and safe pathways for people who need protection in the union, and this is a disgrace for europe.
mr president, these are our last decisions in this mandate and i would like to thank you for five years of unity in diversity. it is our responsibility to keep europe together and let’s rebuild notre-dame cathedral in paris and happy easter. (the house accorded the speaker, who played the european hymn on his harmonica, a standing ovation)
on the matter of free speech, the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 172).
madam president, the right to vote is a fundamental right. our job as politicians is to make it easier for people to exercise that right. six weeks ago in the united kingdom and elsewhere, the opposite happened. turnout in the european parliament elections across europe increased to 51%, yet many citizens resident in member states other than their own were turned away at polling stations, particularly, but not solely, in the united kingdom. unfortunately, the uk government’s response to criticism on this matter has been characteristically negative. therefore, changes are required at eu level to simplify the process and to make it easier for every eu citizen to vote, wherever they live, simply by signing a declaration at the polling station. i have written to the president and the chair of the committee on constitutional rights (afco), asking that this matter be re-examined now to ensure well in advance of the next european elections, so that every eu citizen has the right to vote and it’s upheld.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted to have the opportunity to address you for the first time, and i would like to take this opportunity to address a subject on which we talk a great deal on the one hand, but clearly not enough on the other. it depends on the case or the country or on the political games of one kind or another. i am talking about the rule of law and i am pleased that the potential future commission president has indicated that she will insist on the establishment of a european mechanism to ensure that this fundamental value is respected in all member states. and although she didn't want to talk about the case specifically last time, she would nevertheless point out once again the croatian disregard for the arbitration award. i believe that mrs von de leyen will make this clear one day, unlike her predecessor, and i would like to point out that i will ask the commission's management to publish a legal opinion on the arbitration award. i want the rule of law to be respected, and i believe i'm not the only one.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think i never heard in this hemicycle anybody wishing to see a military invasion of another country, and i hope this will not happen again. this strikes me – this shocks me – and i think we can be proud if it was the european union, through our work, with a contact group, with the countries in the region, with the united nation agencies, to stop any thinking of a military escalation; to stop any thinking of a military escalation from outside the country and from inside the country. i’m proud we have been the ones working with the un agencies, with the humanitarian agencies, to allow them to enter the country and deliver assistance to the population. i’m proud we have been, and we continue to be, probably the biggest donor for assistance to the venezuelan population. i hope you keep that in mind, and i hope – i really hope (i will be sharing only a few months with this parliament) – but i really hope that you will have these five years ahead of you without thinking that imagining a military intervention to invade a country is a good option. this scares me as a european, if i can say so. i think this should be very clear in everybody’s mind in europe, because we have lived in europe – what it means to be at war. and i think that the value of our work in the world is exactly our history: it is full of blood, and that has taught us that war is never a good idea. we will continue, and i think that there is large convergence in this hemicycle – not full convergence; i didn’t expect that – on the need to continue to work in this direction. first of all, to insist for a peaceful solution excluding any military attempt. second, to work for a democratic solution with early presidential elections, with all the guarantees that this can be, finally, free and fair, which has not been the case before. thirdly, this includes dialogue, diplomatic engagement, full support that we have been providing from even before the talks mediated by norway have started. we will continue to support the talks, knowing (without being naive) that in the past, previous experiences of negotiation and mediation have proven to be so difficult and also inconclusive, but a clear set up, clear perspective: i think we have a duty. the european council also thinks we have a duty – i should move to the other part of the hemicycle here to say that – to support this chance that a democratic peaceful transition can happen with political means, with diplomatic efforts. this includes also sanctions, and i want to stress this very clearly, because i hope that everyone in this hemicycle knows at least what policies the european union has and does not have in place. the european union measures are not sanctions against the country or the population. the measures that we have in place are targeted against persons – single individuals – that are responsible for serious violations of human rights. i want this to be very clear. last but not least, humanitarian support. i think we will need to continue to, first of all, provide resources. last time i talked to mark lowcock, the un under-secretary responsible for the humanitarian assistance. he was telling me that at this stage, the main problem when it comes to humanitarian assistance is indeed the lack of resources – much more than the difficulties of access. so i think that we have a responsibility as europeans to keep and even increase the level of assistance to the population, to our brothers and sisters in venezuela. we have so many ties – so many family ties, and some of them are sitting in this room – that we have an interest, a duty, to support the people of venezuela, and there is no doubt about that. but we also have a duty, i think, and a responsibility to call for others to increase their humanitarian assistance because, while there is work to try and achieve an electoral process as soon as possible that is transparent and fair and credible, we cannot ignore the dramatic humanitarian needs of the population. and last but not least, to support the work of michelle bachelet, including with additional measures, if the member states consider unanimously that this is the case: to support her work, again with individual targeted measures that we can introduce to follow up the recent reports on the human rights violations that are extremely serious. so i hope this parliament will be, if not unanimously, largely behind this approach, because having a strong voice from the european parliament, from the european institutions, will be crucial to having a key role, including with the countries in the region from brazil to colombia: all of them, from mexico to the countries that are part of the international contact group, in making europe part of an active solution that is – let me stress once again – peaceful and democratic.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 july 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i would like to reiterate my deep concern at the situation of protracted political stalemate in venezuela and the continuation of the very serious humanitarian, social and economic crisis which is also having repercussions on the stability of the entire region. as reported by unicef, since the beginning of the crisis, some 3.7 million venezuelans, including families with children, have left their homes to go to brazil, colombia, ecuador, peru and other countries in the region. in colombia alone, 327 000 children are living as migrants and refugees, and they need education, protection, care and protection. the country's grave crisis was also reaffirmed by the report of the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, published on 5 july, which denounced serious economic and social violations, and serious phenomena of violence. in this context, which has become unsustainable for the venezuelan people, it is all the more necessary that the european union continue its action in support of a peaceful and negotiated solution to the crisis, which excludes the use of force or military intervention and which, through free elections in the presence of international observers, promotes the pacification of the country.
in writing. the situation in venezuela remains dire. more than 7 million people are in need of humanitarian aid, 94% of the population lives below the poverty line, 70% of children are out of school, health care is almost non-existent, and the second largest migration and refugee crisis in the world is already underway. the repression and extrajudicial killings continue. such brutal repression and violence must end, and a solution must be found to the political crisis, because only then can we move forward with the resolution of other crises in the country. in this regard, the eu's support and assistance to both the norwegian reconciliation process and the un's efforts to find a solution to the situation is also important. in addition, it is important to support neighbouring countries that are facing a large migration crisis stemming from venezuela. immediately, we must find ways to ensure access to food and healthcare in venezuela. the eu can influence the situation by imposing additional sanctions on those responsible for human rights violations and repression. it is also essential that an investigation by the international criminal court be opened into the crimes and repression committed by the venezuelan regime.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the persian gulf (2019/2731 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the gulf is incredibly close to europe. it is part of our region, and the security situation in the gulf is closely connected with our own security. we’ve always said that preserving the nuclear deal with iran is first and foremost for us a european and global security interest, and this has become self-evident today. we don’t want to see a military escalation in our region, nor do we want to see a nuclear arms race in a region that knows already so many tensions. throughout the years we have always said that without the nuclear deal the situation in the middle east, which is already complicated enough, would be even more difficult, much more difficult than it is now. we have always said that. now there seems to be a growing consensus on this. even those who were sceptical – even very sceptical – about the deal, today understand that the situation would be much worse without it. this is what i hear in all my conversations in particular with regional leaders in the gulf, and the current tensions were very much in the minds of all the leaders, for instance of iraq and kuwait, whom i met during my trip to the region last saturday and sunday. together we discussed how we can help avoid further escalation, including by supporting initiatives from the region itself to build a basic initial level of understanding and trust among the main actors. no one says that he wants a war. no one declares that a war is the intention. in the region nobody is saying so, beyond nobody is saying so, but the problem is that in particular in a region like that miscalculations can happen and can lead to extremely dangerous spirals of confrontation. this is why we europeans are inviting all relevant actors to exercise maximum restraint and to think rationally. this is why we’ve been doing everything we can to save the nuclear deal ever since the united states’ unilateral withdrawal. yesterday we had a discussion with the foreign ministers of the 28 at the foreign affairs council. let me tell you that all 28 member states have confirmed our common intention to do all we can collectively to preserve the nuclear deal, even in these extremely difficult circumstances. we have an interest to do so, we feel the responsibility to do so. you all know the situation. it has probably never been as difficult as it is today. fourteen months after the united states’ withdrawal from the deal, iran has announced that it would gradually reduce its compliance with the joint comprehensive plan of action. the international atomic energy agency, which remains the point of reference to assess iran’s compliance with its nuclear commitments under the deal, has confirmed, after having confirmed for many years iran’s full compliance, that iran has now increased its stockpile of low-enriched uranium and has enriched uranium beyond the limits set in the joint comprehensive plan of action. these actions are inconsistent with the deal, and together with the foreign ministers from france, germany and the uk, i issued two extremely clear statements urging iran to go back to full compliance. full compliance – i want to underline that – that iran has kept ever since the deal was done until a few days ago. at this stage, iran’s actions are still reversible and do not indicate an unequivocal decision or intention by iran to revert to its nuclear programme. at the same time, i want to be very clear: the longer iran proceeds down this road, the harder it will be, technically, to step back. our request to iran is very clear: go back to the full implementation of the deal as you have been doing so far. this is in our interest, this is in iranians’ interest, this is our collective interest, and this is the same interest that was behind the decision to conclude the iran nuclear deal. we did that because we knew that kind of deal was in the interest of all of us collectively and, i would say, in the interest of collective security in the world. on our side, as the european union, with the member states, we’ve stepped up our work to try to mitigate the consequences of the united states’ unilateral decision to re-impose sanctions on iran. at the end of june, we convened in vienna another meeting of the joint commission, that is the body overseeing implementation of the deal that we chair. together with the e3 – france, germany and the united kingdom, china, russia and iran – we had a difficult but constructive meeting where we managed remain united concerning the continuous need and commitment for full and effective implementation of the agreement by all sides. in vienna at this joint commission meeting, we also decided that our experts will convene soon to discuss implementation issues, including how to facilitate the export of low-enriched uranium and heavy water out of iran, something that has become increasingly difficult after the re-imposition of us sanctions. on that very same day when we met in vienna, france, germany and the uk announced that the instrument in support of trade exchanges (instex) with iran was finally operational, something they had been working on for months, and the european union and my offices in particular, have been accompanying and supporting this process. so now the instrument is finally operational and it is processing its first transactions. on the same day, seven eu member states declared that they are willing to join the mechanism, and yesterday at the foreign affairs council more member states declared they are considering the possibility of joining instex. we’re also having conversations with non-european union countries that might join, because preserving the nuclear deal with iran is not just a european interest. many others around the world share our same preoccupation, first of all about an arms race in the region, in particular a nuclear arms race in the region. so preserving the deal is not only in our interest and our responsibility – it is – but it is also a joint responsibility for all around the world. i want to recall once again that the deal is not a bilateral or even a multilateral agreements only: it is a un security council resolution unanimously adopted, so there is a global responsibility to preserve it, and to preserve its full implementation. on our side, as the european union, as europeans, we’re doing everything we can. we never thought that this would be easy – and indeed it is not easy at all – but what we are trying to achieve is so important, and somehow an unprecedented exercise. i am sure that if it weren’t for us, the deal first of all would not exist in the first place, and would probably not be alive as of today. we’ve always said that any violation of the nuclear deal with iran could only make our region more unstable, more violent and more exposed to the risk of escalation in tensions. recent events, i’m afraid, have proven us right. but our objective is not to be proven right. our objective is to try and make things work for the better and to develop in a positive direction. i believe no one today should underestimate the risk that an escalation poses to all of us collectively in europe, in the middle east and all around the world. so it is in our collective interest to do everything we can to prevent this scenario. so our choice as europeans – and i know we are united on this – is very clear: we will continue to do everything we can to save the deal. we will continue to be a voice of reason, and we will continue to do that for our own security, for peace in our troubled region, and because we know that especially if there is a problem, the ‘must’ is to keep the channels of communication and of cooperation open, and to invest in the diplomatic way of solving problems.
mr president, madam high representative, i thank you for your very detailed report on the current developments. the situation in the persian gulf is escalating, and this place remains a neuralgic point of world peace, where the world's largest oil and gas flows. iran's ability to block the strait of hormuz militarily is a serious threat to global stability and the economy. the eu and its member states on the un security council must do everything possible to ensure that iran does not renege on the nuclear deal and that the situation does not escalate. madam high representative, you have spoken about this, about what is being discussed these days. the eu must be united on this and we must find a way to force iran to abide by the agreement. even after the united states withdrew from the agreement and reimposed sanctions. i want to thank you for this activity, because we don't want new sanctions on iran, but we want iran to abide by this agreement.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the joint comprehensive plan of action is indeed a major diplomatic achievement that took years of negotiations: a huge accomplishment of the transatlantic alliance, which the new us administration has denied and sought to revoke. there is nothing strategic in dismantling our achievements, in dismantling the multilateral rules—based system or in calling into question high—value multilateral diplomatic successes. the agreement is key in terms of nuclear non—proliferation and global peace and security. it is in the interest of the entire international community, including the eu, the usa and iran. therefore, we have to act: to do more to preserve the deal, and to take all necessary measures to ensure tangible economic benefits, while reminding our iranian counterparts to respect their commitments fully. escalation of tension between the usa and iran has a highly damaging impact on an already unstable region. for the european union it is crucial to stand firm and united and to ensure a clear european stance, defending the observance of international law.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this evening we are discussing a regime that has started seriously to undermine freedom of navigation in the strait of hormuz. earlier we learned that it was particularly vicious to its own people, also playing a negative role in the region and exporting terrorism, including to territories of our countries, to eu territories. recently, since 7 july, we know that this regime has started to violate the joint comprehensive plan of action that we used to praise so much: increasing the level of enrichment from 3.67% to an announced 4.5% and aiming at even more. our actions are inefficient, ms mogherini, and we have to be much more decisive.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mrs mogherini, why not say so clearly? the current crisis in the persian gulf is largely due to the incredible aggressiveness of the united states on the iranian nuclear issue, and we all know that in this parliament. there are obviously economic motivations, and no one has been unaware of this, since mr trump is happy with the price increase for the barrel. there are also obvious ideological motivations. the neocons in washington are doing everything they can to sabotage peace, they have sabotaged the vienna agreement, and to keep this region in instability. but what do we europeans do, what measures do we take to oppose the extraterritoriality of the us sanctions? there are some timid measures but the reality is that washington's injunctions are the rule and europe's resistance is the exception. i believe it is time for us europeans to act as adults in the face of the americans, to talk to iran again, to get the economic machine working again for our companies, for europeans, and also for the image of europe in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, today's debate is providential. i think we all agree that an escalation of conflict in the region must be avoided in every way possible and i would like to think that iran's recent actions can be read as a warning to the west about the possible consequences should the nuclear deal fall apart once and for all. tehran's moves seem to be in that direction, provocations, but nothing more. i therefore call for rationality to prevail. in these situations, a miscalculation can precipitate the situation. i believe that the iranian regime is still willing to engage in dialogue, which i believe remains the only option acceptable to the entire international community. and patience if, as some analysts explain, the iranian attempt is to create divisions between the united states, too often needlessly aggressive and us much more conciliatory. a great responsibility rests on our shoulders. the european union must not be allowed to become a victim of a conflict which could destroy what i consider to be the most important diplomatic achievement of the european union in recent years.
mr. chairman, please. in the context of today's debate on the persian gulf, i would like to stress that this is a crisis which, due to the scale and depth of its consequences, such as the increase in tensions between the great powers, the destabilisation of energy markets and new waves of refugees, can affect not only the region but also international peace and stability and, in particular, the security of the european union and its member states. therefore, regardless of the complexity of the crisis or because of it, and the consequences for the european union of the further destabilisation of the situation in the persian gulf, i expect and call on the commission, and in particular on you, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mugherini, to formulate a clear and firm common european position based on international law and mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes, since further escalation of tensions and instability, and in particular the measurement of the power of the great powers, will not bring the necessary solution. it is therefore essential that the eu, with its partners in the international community, develop and advocate a comprehensive diplomatic initiative to de-escalate the situation and gradually stabilise the region on a lasting basis.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank members for their interventions. i think almost all of them were very unanimous and summed up our feeling and approach to the ongoing events in hong kong. i want to thank you for keeping the subject at the top of your agenda. as universal suffrage was mentioned a few times, i would like to remind you that the eu supports the implementation of the basic law, which states that universal suffrage is an aim for both the legislative council and chief executive. such a reform would have to be agreed by all political stakeholders, both in hong kong and in beijing. from this debate and the previous exchange of views that we had in july, we see that the european union has a strong stake in hong kong and is concerned about its continued stability, continued prosperity and, most importantly, the respect of fundamental rights. we will continue to follow the situation very closely, including the impact on eu residents and citizens and on eu economic interests in hong kong. it is more vital than ever to engage in dialogue to bridge the tensions within society for the benefit of hong kongers at large and in the hong kong special administrative region as an international hub. allow me, therefore, to again express on behalf of high representative mogherini my appreciation for your attention and support in maintaining this important file at the top of your agenda, and i will repeat – as some of you have said – that fundamental rights are universal and should be protected.
madam president, in this summer of 2019, in the first half of august, a series of terrible fires have taken place on the island where i was born and live, gran canaria. at an incalculable cost, but which has caused devastation to a protected environment, absolutely precious natural sites. 10,000 hectares burned, 6,000 people displaced. and now is the time to reflect on the limitations of the recently inaugurated european union civil protection mechanism, with its european emergency response coordination centre, to which spain has generously contributed two aircraft out of a total of seven aircraft and six helicopters made available for this device. the spanish government has certainly responded promptly. the spanish government has mobilized the military emergency unit, which is being used in these very difficult situations. but we also need a more flexible european response than the one currently provided by the european solidarity fund, whose quantitative threshold for access to aid and, above all, whose regulatory date, 2002, are crying out for an update so that the european union can effectively show solidarity, early and immediate, whenever a catastrophic fire like the one that has occurred in gran canaria occurs.
the situation in the region is not calming down, despite the intensive efforts of the commission and the commissioner responsible for enlargement to overcome the tensions in the western balkans, particularly in bosnia and herzegovina. moreover, we are witnessing a further destabilisation of the region and in this context, apart from the institutional crisis in bosnia and herzegovina, relations between the republic of serbia and kosovo stand out, where kosovo's economically excessive and unjustified tariff rates are increasingly exposed as a stumbling block to any progress in the talks between the two sides and towards finding a more lasting solution to this crucial issue for the region and its future. i call on the commission, in the light of the upcoming elections in both countries, to be as actively involved as possible in finding a mutually acceptable solution, in particular the withdrawal of the customs duties mentioned above, thus opening the possibility of resuming the dialogue and the process of reconciliation between the two parties.
mr president, commissioner, the interference of foreign actors, whether state or non-state, in elections and, in particular, in pre-election and other processes crucial to democratic societies, in the european union, the member states and beyond, has taken on dimensions that undermine the foundations of our democratic order. the scale of deliberate, targeted and very well organised and coordinated activities is becoming a threat to which we must respond with greater determination. it is a cross between the misuse of new technologies and the related access to our homes on the one hand and the information needs of modern, democratic, open and genuine free speech societies on the other. this involves a range of propaganda methods and techniques, but more often sophisticated methods, which distort the truth or create a false impression of the truth of the information and data transmitted, which undermine democratic elections or influence public debate in our societies. the response to this threat is necessary because our fundamental values are at stake, but it must also be thoughtful, based on a consistent respect for the rule of law and democratic values and standards. in particular, it must be based on proactive action against this threat by providing credible and verifiable information that will prevent the manipulative activity of foreign actors.
mr president, the eu-mercosur agreement is without doubt the best instrument for protecting the amazon forests. if the european union is serious about leading the global effort to combat climate change, it should certainly approve the eu-mercosur agreement. the protection of the amazon rainforest is a matter for us all, as well as for other forest areas in africa, the americas, asia and oceania, as it contributes to several of the sustainable development goals set by the united nations. i want to highlight the agreement reached in leticia, colombia, by seven latin american countries, including colombia, peru, ecuador, bolivia and brazil, for the protection of the amazon. however, i must say that the position taken by president macron at the last g7 summit is not appropriate, because it is a matter of internal policy which puts at risk much that has been achieved after 20 years of hard negotiation. the eu-mercosur agreement is an opportunity for all those involved, not only in trade but above all in environmental matters, to meet ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i have been hearing for some time now how the european union must set an example in tackling climate change and how it is already playing a leading role in this. all right, that's true, it's true that we're on the right track, but the european union cannot face what it wants to achieve alone. environmental protection is a global issue and everyone must be involved. so i think that the key to the amazon is not just debate, but action. brazil is allowing the destruction of its forests, and as long as that is the case, i cannot imagine the member states of the union ratifying the trade agreement with mercosur. i'm not advocating sanctions except in extreme cases. but isn't that the extreme case? but let us watch the lungs of the world burn. the union's clear message must be that we care about the kind of world we live in. and it can't just be the floscula. climate and nature are changing, and it's high time that we change, too. if we don't make it here, it's over.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you very much, madam president, respected and esteemed. although this is the last debate in this plenary, it is one of the key ones. especially for socialists and socialists and social democrats and social democrats. it is a question of solidarity as our fundamental value and also the fundamental value of the european union, as stated in article 2 of the treaty on european union, and of course the mission of voluntary assistance to others. together, these two can truly form the european way of life. in many european union countries, volunteer firefighters are a pillar of protection against natural and other disasters. volunteering in this field has a long tradition. in slovenia, we have been celebrating 150 years of volunteer firefighters this year and we are also the country within the european union with the largest number of volunteer firefighters in terms of population, 150 000 in total, 50 000 operational. in fact, volunteer firefighters in some member states account for up to 90% or more of all firefighters. and it is this combination of volunteer and professional units that makes it possible to respond and help in the event of fires, natural disasters, floods, severe traffic accidents and other human distress. and this is true in both urban and rural areas. at the same time, firefighters in europe and beyond are becoming the most trusted professional group. they are therefore a key part of civil protection, as they ensure the personal safety of residents and contribute to public security. of course, there are differences between national systems and ways of organising voluntary firefighting, but everywhere this is a noble mission. it is carried out by individuals in their free time and without pay or compensation as an essential element of the employment relationship. because they are not paid for their noble work or mission, they especially deserve our recognition, praise, and thanks. protection and safety against fire and other accidents is essentially a member state responsibility. through their decisions and legislative acts, meps also have an indirect or indirect impact on the status of volunteer firefighters in europe. not just positively. the 2003 directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain aspects of the organisation of working time was adopted with a view to protecting workers in the european union. it sets minimum safety and health standards for the organisation of working time in all member states, which is a major step forward in the protection of workers' rights in the european union. the implementation of the directive, in particular following the court of justice's decision in matzak in may 2018 according to which the home duty time is also counted as working time for volunteer firefighters employed by private individuals, means that volunteers could easily exceed the 48-hour working time, i.e. the maximum 48-hour working week, and the required 11 hours of daily rest. this poses a major risk to the member states' natural and other disaster response systems, as volunteering could be prevented. however, as a social democrat, i am convinced that the existing protection and definition of workers and the future protection and promotion of voluntary work are equally important and not mutually exclusive. we can't sacrifice one for the other. we need to make the rules of law as good as possible, so that both are stronger. that is, natural and other disasters do not know the worker. they're unpredictable in scale and timing. there'll never be enough professional units, especially outside of urban centers. that's why we have to do everything we can to keep the volunteerism going. it is necessary to ensure that the professional obligations and duties of volunteer firefighters are coordinated, to take measures to encourage their recruitment and to ensure that they are equipped. the european union civil protection mechanism, the resceu project, and in particular the crisis management coordination centre, are welcome to respond to major disasters, to ensure effective solidarity between member states and to exchange good practices. they have given rise to a reserve at european union level, which complements national systems and allows for coordination and sharing of resources. it is essential, however, to respect the principle of subsidiarity and to avoid centralisation. excessive regulation should be avoided, national traditions respected and systems that work well and are trusted by the people not compromised. i am optimistic that the candidate for crisis management commissioner, janez lenarčič, is very well aware of the importance and role of volunteer firefighters. i believe that under his leadership the voluntary fire brigade will be properly placed within the framework of the eu mechanisms and that their status will be improved in cooperation with the member states and other member states and the members of the commission. but i must emphasize that volunteering is not a form of work. due to the dilemmas created by the 2003 directive and the eu court of justice decision, we cannot change the directive and the definition of a worker or adopt exceptions for individual countries or groups of countries. in particular, we must not extend the maximum working time but, at the very least, advocate its reduction to a 35-hour week. so i propose that we discuss a separate directive covering civilian recruitment for public security services. and within it, we make sure that the status, the safety and health standards, and the incentive or reward options for volunteer firefighters are properly defined. volunteer firefighters contribute so much to our society that society is theirs and we, as members of the european union, have a duty to give something back to them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, in the last few years we have witnessed many incidents involving security and endangering the lives of citizens of our countries. in particular, in recent months and weeks, we have witnessed large-scale fires that have burned away properties, property and endangered the lives of citizens. regular firefighters are often joined by volunteers. i'm a volunteer myself, and i've been involved in fighting forest fires, and i know firsthand how difficult this task is, and how difficult this job is. we must not allow regulation in legislation at european level to jeopardise the status, life and health of volunteer firefighters in the member states. in 2018, the court of justice of the european union ruled that the time spent by a belgian citizen as a volunteer firefighter must be considered as working time. this sets a precedent in some member states where volunteering is regulated at national level and would in practice mean that volunteer firefighters would have two jobs. i think we all know what kind of trouble this could lead to. directive 2003/88 on aspects of the organisation of working time was negotiated and drafted in a different context from the one in which it is now found, and its aim should in no way be to threaten or demotivate volunteers but to protect the rights of vulnerable workers. with all due respect for the work of the european court of justice, i believe that we should not be guided by the court's interpretations, especially in this case, which, instead of bringing legal clarity, is creating legal chaos in many member states in areas related to the protection of the health and life of citizens and the environment. i think we need to work towards a solution to this issue so that we avoid the threat to the status and motivation of volunteer firefighters.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there are not many of us here today, but we come from different political groups and different countries, and we all say the same thing. indeed, volunteer fire brigades are an important part of the safety system in all member states. this service is an example of courage and self-sacrifice, often at the risk of life. but it's also a great example of building social capital, and that's what we're about. in many places in my region, in my constituency, the history of such units goes back to the beginning of the 19th century, for example in nakle, rynarów or kcin, where the guard has been in existence for over two hundred years. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to stress, commissioner, that since there is such a consensus in this chamber, i agree with the socialist member for the european parliament, mr brglez, who said that we receive a lot from the firefighters and we must give a lot to them.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i have listened attentively to your interventions and i hope i was able to allay some of the worries that have been expressed concerning the status of volunteer firefighters in the european union. volunteer firefighters are a pillar of emergency and civil protection services in many member states and their contribution to the efficiency of those services is undisputed. i can add that i have a great personal respect for their commitment. the organisation and the functioning of firefighting services is and remains a competence of individual member states and each member state has its own specificities and needs. but it is important to protect the health and safety of volunteers and to ensure that the status of volunteer is not used to circumvent labour law where such law is applicable. as i explained in my introduction, the existing rules offer the flexibility to organise this. now, from my side, i am happy to facilitate contacts between different member states that might be affected by the matzak ruling of the court of justice so that there is a platform to discuss solutions that were found in many member states. a specific directive for civil protection has been proposed by the french senate and by the fédération nationale des sapeurs-pompiers. i doubt whether this is really necessary, or whether this is the best solution, but you understand that as a member of the outgoing commission, i cannot commit the next commission to initiate such a proposal. but i’m happy that i could give you some elements – the key elements, i think – to take a well-informed position in the discussion that you will for sure continue with my successor.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the role and importance of volunteer firefighters and other volunteers in the disaster response system is increasing due to the increasingly serious consequences of natural and other disasters. i call on the commission to work towards a european legal framework that will deal with their situation in an appropriate and fair manner. the fact is that climate change is making the consequences of natural disasters more severe and more widespread, and the work of volunteer firefighters and other volunteers in crisis response systems more demanding and more responsible. this must therefore be followed by a regulation of their situation, in particular their economic, social and legal situation. the issue of employer relations is of course at the forefront, where we must find an appropriate systemic solution to the relationship between a volunteer firefighter and his employer. of course, this is not the only dilemma, there are also questions of legal liability, insurance for the risks associated with rescues, etc. i therefore call on the commission once again to address this issue as a matter of priority.
madam president, mr moedas, i would like to thank you for your reply. this thing has fallen to you, on behalf of commissioner malmström. i want to tell you that we know that the commission has been concerned and has taken care of it. the agricultural sector only requires the same energy as when other industrial sectors are affected. the agricultural sector cannot be a bargaining chip in trade agreements, nor can it be the victim of a trade war, as we have been for the past four years with the russian veto. this can't be happening. so, you need to... you need to fix it. we must look at the possibility of a transitional period and solve the problem with energy. i expect that from the outgoing commission. we know that the situation is difficult, but we also know that this sector is suffering a lot. tomorrow there's a big mobilization in my country, in spain. a demonstration for olive oil, in madrid, because it was coming (incomprehensible words) prices. we need private storage for spanish olive oil to be activated and we need other measures for wine. very important. very briefly, are you aware that a spanish winery with an export volume to the united states of eur 300 000 was ordered last friday to pay eur 80 000 already for (incomprehensible words) customs duties? that's the reality, it's not fair that this sector suffers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand the european commission's position on this particular case and welcome its commitment to multilateralism and free trade. but let us not be under any illusions about what customs policy we are actually talking about. this is a policy aimed at reducing the competitiveness of the european economy and at achieving a de facto shift of jobs from europe to other parts of the world, irrespective of the legal justification for doing so. i therefore call on the european commission, in its commitment to multilateralism and free trade, to take action to protect european industry. in particular, the branched supply chains of smes, which are the most innovative and numerous part of this european industry and, above all, an industry with significant social and societal impacts in the event of difficulties, deserve this protection.
mr president, this week is european week of action for girls, when we call on eu member states and institutions to better protect and champion the rights of girls. it’s our duty to ensure that every single girl – not only in the eu, but around the world – has access to quality education, healthcare and job opportunities, and is able to enjoy a life where they are truly equal. but sadly, these are universal rights that millions are still denied. we must demand that gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls continues to be a top priority in the eu’s international cooperation and development policies. we must dismantle patriarchal social norms that have been formed and cemented over generations, as well as challenging and changing discriminatory laws. we must recognise that intersectionality and structural inequalities are significant factors that impact negatively on the economic, social and political lives of girls and women and their meaningful participation. i stand with all feminist brothers and sisters who are fighting for true equality.
mr president, the college of commissioners is due to decide on croatia's proposal to join schengen just before the end of its mandate. otherwise, this date is now being postponed again, perhaps that also says something, but i will not speculate, of course i cannot predict the decision in advance, unlike some who already explain how juncker promised them the green light of his outgoing commission and how slovenia will then block their path and how wrong this is. and that hasn't even been decided at this level. the question now is, above all, whether croatia is technically competent and flawless to secure the external border of the union. since it has no fixed borders with most of its neighbors, let me remind you that the border with slovenia is fixed and regulated by arbitration. once again, slovenia supports the extension of schengen on the condition that all security-technical requirements are met, that this does not pose a security threat to the union, and that democratic and legal standards are respected.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the danger of a certain normalisation of the idea of protecting the european way of life. this one assumes that he's being threatened from outside and needs to be defended from the aliens. the consequences are already visible the protection of the borders is being pursued with serious violations of asylum law and human rights. there's a lack of petitioning, a chain reaction of police violence. switzerland has even stopped returning refugees and migrants to a candidate country for schengen membership because of court-confirmed human rights violations. european leaders are silent on the matter. but violations of international law and human rights cannot and must not become the european way of life. this is determined by the values set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union. however, these values should also be highlighted as important in defining the areas of work of the european institutions, including the commission, and as a key political criterion for schengen membership.
in writing. the report on employment and social policy in the euro area, which received broad political support in the committee on employment and social affairs, is an opportunity for the eu to move away from the focus on stability and (mainly) growth on which the euro area is founded (e.g. through the stability and growth pact). if we are serious about an economy for people, then social policies cannot be just a supplement or first aid for collateral damage caused by participating in a global competition for continuous (economic) growth. unfortunately, the speech of the candidate for vice-president of the commission and the commissioner responsible for the human economy also shows that the future european commission has, at declaratory level, recognised the need for the economy to adapt to climate change, but is unwilling or unable to recognise the fundamental incompatibilities between the concept of sustainable growth and sustainable development and the social union, which together with the economic union should equally constitute a european economy for people. a european economy for people must be built on people, not on the maintenance of the existing market economy model. an economy for people is an economy of quality jobs, in which people are included according to their abilities and which allows a decent life for all. at the same time, it provides for those who are temporarily or by personal circumstances unemployed or underemployed.
in writing. regarding the european council decisions, i regret that the leaders and consequently the public have again focused on the issue of the uk's withdrawal from the eu. while this is a subject that we need to address from the perspective of safeguarding people's rights, the disproportionate focus on the withdrawal agreement has completely neglected the negotiations on the financial perspective for the period 2021-2027. the conclusions call on the presidency to submit a more concrete framework for negotiations only for the december council, which, together with the delay in the uk's withdrawal, means that there is a high probability that a new financial framework will not be adopted before the expiry of the existing one. this is a very bad sign for the future of the eu, as the promises and plans made by the newly elected commission president are impossible to implement without adequate financial resources. in the member states, the cohesion fund, which is the indispensable or only development resource for many parts of the eu, makes it impossible to plan projects. the longer the delay in reaching agreement on the mff regulation, the more likely it is that cohesion and other development funds not essential to the day-to-day functioning of the eu institutions will be sacrificed in the time-crunch of reaching a compromise. it is also bad for the future of the eu that eu enlargement will no longer be on the leaders' agenda before may 2020.
madam president, the turkish invasion of syria is another round of hell in this 21st century tragedy. we are witnessing the trampling underfoot of the fundamental rules of humanitarian and international law, the rules on which the modern world order is based, by the military of a nato member state and by the militias and armed paramilitary formations directly subordinate to it. although turkey claims that this is to safeguard its security interests, let us not be naive. the sochi meeting made it clear what was at stake. it is this brutal and uncompromising pursuit of geopolitical interests within the framework of the so-called post-war regime in syria. nor is it about fighting terrorism, if it is about why turkey is destroying the only serious counterterrorism force, the kurds, who have contributed the lion's share to the victory over the barbarism of the islamic state, which directly threatened the european union. the threat of erdogan with a new wave of refugees is also a message. the misfortune and suffering of millions of people, which he himself caused, would be used as a tool of brutal political blackmail by the eu. there is no doubt that a common european response is needed. we must be aware that the eu has both the means and the capacity to influence turkish behaviour. the only question is whether we have the will to do so.
madam president, words, words, words. i have to say this. erdoğan invades syria, with a green light from trump, with putin's back, makes deals at the expense of international law and legality, revises the treaty of lausanne and the european union in practice proves to be a political dwarf. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. there is a unanimous decision of the council a few months ago, to which alexis tsipras and president anastasiades contributed. it is time for this to be specialised and applied, and this is unfortunately being cynically blocked by governments such as germany and france for their own economic interests. let's be honest with each other. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, the turkish invasion of syria must be condemned. it was aimed at kurds who were fighting against the islamic state, some of whose fighters are now at large again thanks to turkey. the intervention has created instability and created another wave of refugees, but above all, this intervention has caused loss of life and suffering of innocent people. it is good that turkey has now stopped this offensive, it is also due to the pressure of the united states, the european union. a safe zone in northern syria would make sense, but only under the supervision of international forces, not as territory cleared by the turkish army and occupied by the turkish army. we cannot look at the turkish invasion as an isolated act, but unfortunately turkey has behaved in recent years as a country that does not share the same values as the european union.
madam president, millions of people from diverse ethnic and religious communities in this region are under threat. tens of thousands have been displaced. besides kurdish and arabic villages, christian neighbourhoods have been targeted. it’s obvious these attacks are carried out by turkish military with the aim of ethnic cleansing and demographic change. as a member of women defend rojava, an international campaign against fascism and patriarchy, i raise my voice here to call for: an immediate end to turkey’s invasion and occupation in north and east syria; the establishment of a no-fly zone; an end to the weapons trade with turkey; political and economic sanctions against turkey; the recognition of war crimes already committed by turkey and the prevention of further war crimes and ethnic cleansing by turkish forces, isis, al-nusra and other jihadist terrorist groups; the acknowledgment of the democratic autonomous administration of north and east syria; and a political solution with representation and participation of women and people from all the different national cultural and religious communities in syria. we need... (the president cut off the speaker)
please, ms ward, everyone needs to get their opportunity.
madam president, i welcome the resolution and the calls made to turkey, and i agree with the call to the european commission to freeze payments to turkey and to ensure that these funds are not used to finance military operations. but calling won't do. we can't let erdogan blackmail us with his money. they should not allow the security issues of a region in the immediate vicinity of the union to be determined exclusively by other countries. we should not allow the killing, the forced displacement of people, the humanitarian catastrophe of all dimensions. in addition to economic sanctions, the freezing of european funds and the eu-wide arms embargo, at least the so-called no-fly zones and the un-led security zones should be established. hold on, moscow and ankara have reached an agreement and apparently turkey sees no need to continue the offensive at this stage. what does that mean, "i'm not"? at least the residents will still be in fear of attack. i repeat, that's the least of it. it is high time that we unified european foreign policy and finally took responsibility for the supposedly geopolitical... (the president is requested to take the floor. )
madam president, addressing such an important issue as the rescue of refugees and migrants in the mediterranean is of the utmost importance. more important, we need to do more than just talk about the problem. we need to take concrete steps to solve it. and this motion for a resolution does just that. the union needs a more coordinated approach to rescuing and disembarking refugees and migrants and a fair and sustainable mechanism for the distribution of those rescued. the fact that more than 19,000 people died in the mediterranean between 2014 and 2018 is frightening. i am aware that this issue often raises the question of security, but it is also important to be aware of the question of solidarity. this has to go hand in hand. i am convinced that, by joining forces, member states can help those seeking safe haven in europe and have the right to do so while ensuring and maintaining the safety of all citizens.
i regret the council's decision not to open negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and i am particularly disappointed that the council has not been able to recognise and appreciate the efforts and the weight of the compromises that north macedonia has made so far on its path towards the european union. in this context, i regret the weakness of the argument that we need to renew the accession process and reform the institutions of the european union before the talks can begin. enlargement does not impede eu institutional reform, provided there is the political will to do so within the eu. on the other hand, the rejection of enlargement talks in this way sends a clear message that the eu is today institutionally incapable of supporting countries committed to european values and vision. this is the wrong message at a time of brutal geopolitical upheaval in europe's neighbourhood, especially in the western balkans, where north macedonia is a bright exception in the region. in a region where we are witnessing a frank democratic backsliding and a rise of populism and nationalism. north macedonia is a small window of opportunity through which the european union can send a ray of european hope to the region. it's a message to the people of the region. there is a european perspective for countries that reject populism, corruption and economic stagnation. if we as the eu cannot or will not do this, then let us be frank about it and at the same time prepare ourselves for the consequences of this decision.
mr president, i am very pleased that in the human rights bloc we are also addressing the issue of the quality of criminal law, because the quality of criminal law in a country is a strong reflection of whether or not a given regime, a given state, respects human rights. and the bill that my colleagues are criticizing here really needs to be properly criticized because with the modern concept of criminal law this bill that is being discussed by the indonesian parliament really has nothing to do with it. it's been said here, there are provisions that violate the rights of sexual minorities, the rights of women to abortion, the rights of religious minorities to freely express themselves under the guise of blasphemy and so on. in general, the law is difficult to accept because criminal law, if it is to reflect the rule of law, must be legal. it must be made clear what is and is not a crime. and this law doesn't say that, it's very vague and in fact if it were to pass, the indonesian government and the judiciary would be able to abuse it and choose what the crime would be. so our position is correct and negative.
mr president, there are more than eighteen problematic articles within the proposed penal code in indonesia that could seriously limit a wide range of civil liberties. there are proposed articles that are harmful to women, to lgbti persons and religious minorities, and articles against free speech. these articles do not comply with international human rights norms and they do not stand up to international scrutiny. no parliament should regulate an individual’s private life, such as who they choose to fall in love with, or police people’s decisions about their own bodies, such as restricting women’s reproductive rights. as a campaigner for sexual health and reproductive rights, i know that access to safe abortion and quality contraception empowers women and girls and can save lives. i implore the indonesian authorities to change course and remove all the problematical articles that belong in the last century.
mr. chairman, i would like to join my colleagues in condemning the parties to this new draft criminal code. we firmly believe that the indonesian government is our stable partner, we want to have good relations with them, good cooperation. indonesia is indeed a strategic country in the region. on the other hand, if a draconian and vague draft of the criminal code is presented, then i think it's our duty to actually speak to our partner. i believe in the universality of basic human rights. i'm not convinced that we need to spread all human rights everywhere as we see them in the european context, but basic human rights, such as the right to life, the right to a lawful judge, the right to punishment only by law, and the basic aspects of due process, these are things that i think are truly universal. i therefore firmly believe that both the present commission and, of course, the new commission will be decisive in this matter and we will actively negotiate with the indonesian government to have this draft criminal code also recognize these amendments.
member of the commission. – mr president, indonesia, a stable democracy with free and fair elections, diverse and active media and a vibrant civil society, has made important progress over the last years in establishing a legal framework for protecting human rights and improving democratic freedoms. the long modernisation process of the decades-old criminal code has brought to the fore positive developments, for example restricting the scope and use of the death penalty. yet this process has raised concerns on a number of human rights—related issues, drawing criticism domestically and the attention of the international community. the european union has monitored closely over the years the revision of the criminal code through regular engagement with government, parliament, civil society and international partners. some of the most controversial amendments relate inter alia to the provisions of blasphemy, decriminalisation of extramarital sex and married cohabitation and provisions with the potential to limit freedom of expression and the rights of women, lgbti and religious minorities. we call upon indonesia, currently a non-permanent member of the united nations security council, to uphold its national and international obligations and to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and act accordingly. the european union has made multiple outreach efforts towards the indonesian authorities. for example, in 2018, the eu delegation and eu member states met with the minister for justice and human rights and, in the summer of this year, they met with the relevant parliament’s commission. a noticeable development has been the removal of the draft provision outlawing same-sex relations. indonesia’s president, joko widodo, announced at the end of september the postponement of the vote on the revision of the criminal code, referring the debate to the new parliament, in place since october this year. at the forthcoming annual eu—indonesia human rights dialogue, to be held in brussels on 8 november, the european union will continue to engage on the revision of the criminal code and will recall indonesia’s obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, parliament has decided to award the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to ilham tohti. ilham tohti is an economics professor and advocate for the rights of the uyghur minority in china. he worked hard to improve understanding between the uighurs and the han in china and was imprisoned for life. the european parliament, while expressing its full support for his work, calls for his immediate release by the chinese authorities.
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, during the debate on the turkish military operations in north-east syria, a member of this parliament acted in an unacceptable manner, showing aggressive and disrespectful behaviour towards his colleagues and this institution. i would like to stress, as the chairmen of the political groups have done, that i will no longer tolerate any behaviour which could damage the dignity and reputation of this parliament. i have decided, pursuant to rule 176 (1) of parliament's rules of procedure, to impose a penalty for serious infringement of rule 10 (3) on mr angelo ciocca, who during yesterday's sitting engaged in disorderly conduct, including abandoning his seat and throwing an object on the floor in the centre of the chamber. the sanction shall consist in the loss of the right to daily allowance for a period of 10 days and in a temporary suspension from participation in all the activities of parliament for a period of five days when parliament and its bodies, committees and delegations meet, starting from 4 november 2019, without prejudice of course to his right to vote in plenary and subject to strict compliance with the rules of conduct for members. the decision has been notified to the member concerned, who has the right to lodge an internal appeal against this decision with the bureau under rule 177. ladies and gentlemen, there have been some behaviours in this early period of parliamentary activity which are to be taken up in both language and behaviour. that is why i have written further letters to members of parliament and will await their replies. we have a great spirit of tolerance and freedom in this parliament, but the language and the behaviour must be in keeping with the respect of this institution. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i want to share with you, and i do so with great emotion, a historic event that is taking place at this moment in spain, my country, with the transfer, with all legal guarantees, of the mortal remains of dictator franco. he's being moved from a public mausoleum to a common cemetery. please, a little dignity at this time. with the exhumation of the mortal remains of dictator franco, the government of pedro sánchez is fulfilling its commitment and restoring historical and democratic dignity to spain and the spanish people. once again, it shows that spain is a great democracy, modern, open and that it wants to close a page of its history, a very tragic page. i believe that today all democrats must pay tribute to the victims of the civil war, to the victims of francoism, to their descendants, to their relatives, to my grandparents, to my mother and father. and you're being asked by an immigrant's son. democracy has won. and this is the house of democracy.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, pursuant to rule 59 (4) (4) of the rules of procedure, i ask, as chairman of the committee responsible, that this matter be referred to the regi committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, this is a matter of order. in voting on paragraph 18, second part 18/2 of the voting list on thomas cook group, the people's group is wrong and the vote must be in favour.
president of the libe commission. mr president, i would like to say that this is a day when we again mourn the tragic deaths of 39 human beings, victims of networks and mafias that traffic in human beings. we regret the deaths that occur in road traffic, we regret the deaths that occur in the sahara and we regret the deaths that occur at sea. but we also regret that, by two votes, it was not possible to express a message of solidarity, not only with those who lose their lives at sea, but with the member states of the european union, so that there is a european mechanism for saving lives at sea. i'm very sorry about that, mr. president.
mr president, i have only a short oral amendment: ‘stress in particular the role of the responsibility of the french president, emmanuel macron, on the rejection of the opening of the negotiations on enlargement and its damaging impact on the credibility of the european union’. (applause)
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending explanations of vote)
madam president, the collapse of the thomas cook group has had a serious effect on consumers, employees and businesses across europe. across south-east england, an estimated 21 000 customers are waiting for refunds for their trips, protected by atol and eu legislation. gatwick, the largest charter airport in the uk, is the biggest employer in and around crawley. more than 500 jobs at the airport were dependent on thomas cook. i’m pleased to see the parliament calling for a thorough analysis of the collapse, better to anticipate – and hopefully to prevent – these situations happening in future. the resolution also highlights the possibilities provided by the globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to assist people who have lost their jobs. the uk government should make use of this facility to offer training and assistance to those seeking new jobs. i’m writing to the secretary of state to urge her to do so at the earliest opportunity.
madam president, when i step off the train this evening in leicester, i will immediately see the statue of thomas cook, there to commemorate thomas cook, his business, and indeed some of the first pioneering journeys he organised. in fact, in 1885, his first trip organised to europe took in brussels and strasbourg, the cities, of course, of our european parliament. and of course, the passengers on those first journeys organised by thomas cook into europe will not have had the protection of atol or, indeed, the european union. we must make sure that passengers affected by the collapse of travel companies today, and indeed the workers of such companies, are fully protected in the future and that the lessons are learnt from the devastating collapse of thomas cook, which has affected 600 000 passengers and many thousands of workers across the uk and europe.
madam chairman, i agree that we must help with the enormous impact of this travel agency's collapse, that we must help the customers, the consumers of course. the cross-border effect in this case is undeniable, the chain has obviously affected customers, consumers, entrepreneurs. on the other hand, i would like to stress that this is a fundamental responsibility of the member states and their right. i did not like the way my colleagues on the left of the spectrum tried to involve the commission unnecessarily in this issue. there have been proposals to reduce the huge remuneration that managers receive, it's just a matter of shareholders, i think, or customers, it's a matter of private law and i don't think it's appropriate for the government to intervene. so, from my point of view, it is a kind of condemnation of the egalitarian approach that was expressed in the motion for a resolution, but i nevertheless supported it because a substantial part of the motion was not passed.
madam president, when greens in this house pushed for public reporting of bank profits back in 2015, the banks screamed that this would bankrupt them – but they’re still thriving. having public information about how companies are shifting their profits is the only way we can ensure that they pay a fair share of tax. no wonder many of them are resisting. but european governments should not shelter these tax avoiders. the council’s working group on company law will meet tomorrow to discuss public country—by—country reporting for all companies. it seems that the german position is shifting and i welcome this, although i’m ashamed to add that the uk will play no part in this vital policy change. member states must break the deadlock in council to ensure transparent reporting by corporations. if european cooperation means anything, it must mean cooperating in the interests of citizens who need properly-funded public services and small businesses who cannot compete with corporations who cheat on their taxes.
madam president, as rapporteur for this item, i am very pleased that parliament has confirmed the political view that tax transparency is of paramount importance in the fight against tax evasion. it was said here during the debate and now that the key problem is the council's position, where some states block us from adopting this proposal. the finnish presidency has declared in this debate that it will try to move the council's position. i am happy with that, because then the whole material could be adopted, because parliament's position is consistent in this respect, both in this and in the previous term. so now it is up to the council, then we have to discuss the legal basis, but that is more of a technical matter and then there is nothing to prevent us from solving the question of tax transparency in this way.
madam president, i have supported this resolution, and i clearly see turkey's illegal, reprehensible attack on the kurdish minority in syria. unfortunately, this clearly shows that turkey is not moving closer to european standards, but is moving further and further away. we have debated this many times in this house during the last parliamentary term, and therefore any consideration of turkey ever being a member of the european union is, i think, completely absurd today. we will probably be debating for a long time, if not here, whether turkey should be a member of nato at all and whether it is still our ally or whether its international policy is completely at odds with the policy of the countries of the euro-atlantic civilization.
madam president, of course the turkish invasion of northern syria deserves condemnation and it is good that such a statement has been made. on the other hand, it's just that something's missing here. let's not pretend this situation is all black and white. firstly, we should not give the impression that we, as the european union, are supporting forces which are seeking to disintegrate the territory of another country, which would be, in my view, an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of that country. in this case, turkey. and secondly, let's also say that if the european union really wants to live up to its reputation as a global player, it has to do more than just pass resolutions and blame the united states for not meeting its commitments. i read a statement by president trump yesterday that i think a lot of people in this room might like. he said it was not the job of american military power or military strength to play the world's policeman, but that other countries must also be held accountable. and that is certainly true, and i am afraid that neither the european union nor its member states have, and are not, fulfilling their responsibilities in this matter, and in any case no resolution, however strong, will solve it.
madam president, i did not support this motion for a resolution, nor did i support a number of amendments, and i welcome the fact that in the end this resolution failed to pass by two votes, although by a narrow margin. because i believe that it is impossible to support the business of refugees. i can't think of another word for it. i understand that a lot of nonprofits have good intentions. we must prevent human casualties, but above all we must ensure that people do not have to flee their homes. so that in case of emergency, they have good conditions in the refugee camps as close to their country as possible, so that they can return. and if there are refugees who are entitled to international protection, they should be able to obtain it legally. i think that the effort to create new redistribution mechanisms for refugees is not a workable solution. on the one hand, it is rejected by some member states, but on the other hand, it is mainly a support for the business of refugees. so thank you, and i'm glad this resolution didn't pass.
madam president, i think this resolution today being defeated by just two votes is a bleak day for this parliament. is this issue complicated and complex? yes, it can be. should we deal with and bring to justice people traffickers? yes, we should. but this issue actually is also really straightforward in my mind as well, because what it boils down to is about whether we support the idea of rescuing kids drowning in the sea, families, parents, children, making the most perilous of journeys, in real desperation, fleeing persecution and war. so i want my constituents to know, and be under no doubt whatsoever, that i voted today in favour of proper search and rescue in the mediterranean, in favour of bringing traffickers to justice and making sure those who seek to help are not criminalised, and that i voted today for measures that ultimately come down to a basic sense of humanity and decency.
madam president, i voted against this resolution, i'm glad it didn't pass, and let's be frank, it was a dead end. we cannot effectively combat human trafficking, those who exploit human misery, and at the same time pass similar resolutions that not only do not stop them, but encourage them to act. we cannot stand with an ngo such as that represented by captain carola racket, who, in her rescue of refugees in the mediterranean, has broken several laws, ignored maritime law and will have to face the consequences. we must focus on prevention, we must focus on how to help those countries from which refugees flow, to stabilise the political and economic situation in those countries and to stop the flow of refugees, and we must not adopt resolutions that will instead encourage people smugglers to continue their activities.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the european parliament's resolution criticising the actions of the governments of france, denmark and the netherlands. these countries have blocked the opening of accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. i consider this a major strategic error. these negotiations would, of course, be long, complicated, perhaps with an uncertain end, but they must be launched at some point to simply give the countries concerned the motivation and perspective that these countries, and in particular their citizens, desperately need for the reforms they need to carry out. north macedonia recently reached a historic agreement with greece on the name of the country, a significant achievement that we were able to celebrate with this act. in this context, i would like to point out that the european union should not lose any more influence over the western balkans. tomorrow, serbia will sign the act of accession to the eurasian union. i don't think that's a good trend to follow.
madam president, why did i vote for the resolution on the blockade of the accession negotiations? because the credibility of the union as a whole is at stake, primarily because of one member state. i cannot accept the french position. not because my country, slovenia, and then macedonia, were once part of a common state. and not because my mother was macedonian, but because i was disappointed as an individual, as an ordinary person who knows what it's like to be promised something for years, and who himself did everything that was asked of him, in order to get nothing in the end. the opening of accession negotiations would only signal that albania and north macedonia are on the right track, although both countries are well aware that they still have a long way to go. we all know that. of course, reforms are needed in the union, we all know that, but would the start, i stress the start, of accession negotiations be a threat to reforms or to the union as such? please, please.
in writing. on 20 november, 30 years will have passed since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, by which states have legally recognised the child as the autonomous and full 'owner' of human rights. the convention covers civil and political rights as well as economic, social and cultural rights. their enforcement creates legal and factual obligations on the part of the state and on the part of the adults. this anniversary is an opportunity to renew and reinforce the commitment to the consistent implementation of the rights of all children, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable and disadvantaged. poverty is itself a cause and consequence of the violation of children's rights, which unfortunately also leads to social exclusion in childhood and most often carries over into adulthood. according to eurostat data for 2017, children are the age group most at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in view of all this, it is imperative that the new commission concretises and implements the president-elect's commitment to establish a guarantee for children as soon as possible, in order to correct this alarming statistic and, above all, the lives of children. at the same time, a commitment to children around the world would be necessary for the eu to ratify the convention on the rights of the child and to take a more active role in promoting the implementation of this most widely accepted international human rights instrument.
madam president, in most cases, criminal acts against journalists can only be committed when those who have uncovered them remain in power. this is where journalists end up in danger. the biggest example is daphne caruana galizia, of course. she has uncovered serious details of crime and corruption by people in power and still to this day runs the prime minister's office in malta. and they still run the power station today, which is heavily suspected of corruption. they are corrupt people and, after what happened in court this week, we can say it more firmly. keith schembri, the chief of staff of the prime minister of malta, continued to insist on not answering questions related to the investigations being carried out by daphne caruana galizia because, in his words, he incriminates himself, and he still ran the most powerful office in malta! an office that has great powers over the police! it is no wonder that the maltese government still does not want to hear from the council of europe. the government of malta continues to insist that there will be no genuine independent public inquiry into the murder of daphne caruana galizia. it is no wonder that if by some miracle the government conducts an independent inquiry, they want the inquiry report to remain hidden from the public. and i would like to close by thanking, madam president, the members of this house, from every political aspect of this house, who today are still insisting that daphne's story is still alive in this very important institution in the european union and that we will not stop until we know the truth about the murder of daphne and ján kuciak.
madam president, a democratic society must protect and promote the independence of the media and journalists, including financial resources. we are witnessing pressures on journalists in the countries of the european union. they're being blackmailed, restricted. even murdered them. daphne galizia, jan kuciak, they knew too much. that's why they had to die, to be silenced forever. but i believe they did not die in vain. their message lives on and people have raised their voices against their killers. the european parliament also remembers them, as do dozens of others who died in their home countries or even beyond the borders of europe. we call for their protection. and the first, the most important thing is that their murders are investigated and the murderers are punished. i believe we can achieve that.
madam president, media and press freedom are cornerstones of civilised societies and it’s right that we pay tribute to those who have been killed in the course of reporting the news and investigating in the public interest. but while we remember the more than 1 000 journalists killed globally in the past 12 years, we must be outspoken in defence of those subject to sustained harassment and abuse today. and i’d like to draw particular attention to the case of the staff of the bbc persian service who’ve been subject to sustained persecution by the iranian authorities, as have their families, inside iran. these are mainly eu—iranian dual nationals, mainly female journalists, and what’s particularly sinister in this case is the targeting via sexual defamation and harassment of these journalists. we should recognise that this is a trend growing around the world. female journalists are three times more likely to be subject to abuse than their male counterparts are. we can’t wring our hands about this any longer. we need action to protect our journalists from today.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate. we very much agree that we should be very concerned about crimes against journalists and impunity for such crimes wherever that is taking place. but in particular, as many of you have underlined, we also have to focus on our own countries, the european union, because these things do happen on our own doorstep and, as a number of you have underlined, a free media, a media where journalists can report on any topic, on all platforms, without needing to censor themselves is a cornerstone of our societies. indeed, that journalistic freedom of expression is a key part of the values that we seek to defend in our european union. the points that you have raised, including some of the new, detailed, points that have been raised, are very important to us. i set out briefly some of the things that we are already doing and planning to do, but we will now study very closely some of the additional suggestions that you have raised. this subject will be a key subject for the new commission, taken forward by my colleague commissioner jourová, who would have very much liked to be with you this evening. this is one of the subjects that she holds very close to her heart and you can count on her to pursue it vigorously.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your very important interventions. let me assure you, once again, that the presidency and the council as a whole is committed to the fight against impunity for crimes against journalists. the freedoms of expression and the press enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights need to be guaranteed in all member states, and those who fall victim to crimes must receive justice. the killing of daphne caruana galizia proves that no region of the world is immune to such crimes. we reiterate our commitment to combatting impunity for crimes against journalists and to continue using all appropriate means possible to respect and to protect freedom of expression and to ensure the safety of journalists and media workers. the eu already provides financial and expert support for human rights defenders and media monitoring in the eu. we, further, foster the protection of journalists, bloggers and media workers in many countries with financial and expert support. may i also remind you that media pluralism and the rights of journalists are also an important aspect of the rule of law, which is a high priority of the finnish council presidency. we are tireless in protecting the respect of the rule of law. we will continue to watch very closely the relevant investigations and we will stand firmly behind journalists around the world. i can assure you that the council has taken careful note of the views expressed here today on this very important issue. thank you very much for this debate again.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the press plays, as the edu court states, a fundamental role as a public watchdog, also in the fight against organised crime. as acknowledged by the judicial and police authorities, there are many investigative journalism cases that have paved the way for significant investigative and judicial developments; the work of journalists is also one of the elements through which the cultural change needed to face the challenge posed by organised crime at european level must pass. the criminal organizations themselves are aware of this: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections. a free media, and therefore one able to fulfil its task, is one of the foundations of a democratic society, a guarantee of the rule of law and fundamental values. to protect journalists, we must not only bring to justice those responsible for crimes against their freedom, but also tackle the phenomenon of organised crime, which has now become transnational, on a common basis, by harmonizing national legislation so that the differences between them no longer constitute an advantage for criminal groups.
in writing. behind every journalist who wins the pulitzer prize, there are 100 journalists who have been killed and murdered in the line of duty. and it's impossible to count the number of journalists who are the victims of censorship, harassment, pressure, dismissals, who are imprisoned, tortured because they want to do their job well. these journalists are growing in numbers around the world as the pressure from capital owners, interest groups, and politicians increases. regardless of where the pressure comes from, and regardless of the country where it occurs, it must be strongly condemned, investigated and the violators punished. it is the duty of our governments, including the slovenian government, to create conditions in which journalists have an open door to reporting information. and it's the duty of journalists to report impartially and without fake news. it's the only way we can count on a well-informed and informed public.
in writing. a free and independent press contributes to a just society and helps to ensure greater accountability for governments, businesses and society. unfortunately, the work of journalists carries risks, and in recent years there has been a steady increase in attacks against journalists. 94 journalists were killed last year. this year, saudi journalist jamal khashoggi was brutally murdered, and a few years ago, journalist daphne caruana galizia was murdered in malta an eu member state. governments continue to be unable and often unwilling to protect journalists or to hold accountable those behind the killings and attacks on journalists. there are also attacks on women journalists on the rise. without protecting journalists and freedom of expression in society, we seriously undermine the ability to be informed and to make informed choices and decisions. member states must ensure that journalists are protected and that those who attack them are held accountable.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the resurgence of ebola in east africa (2019/2897(rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that, in order to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, it will be possible to use both the standard registration and the new system allowing members to register electronically. therefore, i invite you to always bring your voting card. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye, i invite you to do so starting from now without waiting for the end of the debate. since we are running out of time, please also stick to the allocated time.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you so much for organising this discussion in parliament. i really believe that it is the right moment to talk about ebola in east africa for two specific reasons: first because ebola has resurged in the democratic republic of congo (drc). this is the tenth ever ebola outbreak in the country. its main characteristic is that it is happening in the most complex and fragile and insecure region of the eastern part of the drc. the second reason is that despite the challenges on the ground, we have kept up the fight against ebola. we are making steady steps of progress thanks to our relentless efforts with our partners in laboratories with experts and researchers, in meeting rooms with other donors and international organisations and on the ground together with patients, communities, local leaders and health workers. since 1 august 2018, when the current outbreak started, more than 3 200 people were infected. more than 2 100 people have, unfortunately, lost their lives. at the same time, more than 1 000 lives were saved. when talking about ebola, we should never forget the worst ever outbreak that hit west africa five years ago. the european union’s intervention at that time was critical in handling a situation which was completely out of control. it was a very painful experience – including for me personally. i saw this first hand as soon as i took over my duties as european commissioner and the eu ebola coordinator in november 2014 when i visited, with my dear colleague commissioner andriukaitis, the three affected countries – liberia, sierra leone and guinea – at the peak of the crisis. i remember we talked a lot with my colleagues here and in parliament and i always had your very crucial and very special support in this very difficult situation at that time. but this crisis was also, five years ago, a milestone. it taught us important lessons that shape the way we responded to the ebola epidemics that followed. the ninth ebola outbreak in the drc’s province of équateur demonstrated that we took on board those lessons. that outbreak was declared in may and it ended in august 2018. we managed to contain the virus in three months. you can compare the situation with that of five years ago in west africa. i would like to mention four lessons that we learned and we now follow on the ground. the first lesson and maybe the most important: act fast. our response to the current outbreak in the eastern part of the drc started on the same day the outbreak was declared. already on day one, the european union was transporting doctors and equipment to the affected areas. the second lesson: be ready. this requires improved capacities. we are now able to do these things thanks to an excellent instrument – the european medical corps, which is part of the european union civil protection mechanism. the european medical corps is europe’s highly specialised medical teams ready to be deployed in health emergencies at very, very short notice. our response capacities also include high-tech isolation units, in cooperation with norway, and a mechanism for medical evacuation. i am talking about medevac: the medical evacuation of health and aid workers for treatment in the european union, in cooperation with the world health organisation. the third lesson, also extremely important: invest in prevention and cure – in vaccines, diagnostic tests and treatment. since 2014, the european union has invested more than eur 231 million in vaccine development and research on ebola treatments in diagnostic tests. one vaccine – with a second one in the pipeline – and two treatments are currently used in the drc and in its neighbouring uganda and rwanda, and the results are very, very encouraging. on 31 october, as commissioner, i announced together with my dear colleague, commissioner moedas, an additional eur 6 million from the eu’s horizon 2020 programme to support a new vaccination trial in the drc. thanks to parliament’s support, we have managed to mobilise more than eur 47 million since 2018 for the humanitarian response to ebola in the drc, together with another eur 5 million for prevention and preparedness measures in the neighbouring countries most at risk: uganda, south sudan, rwanda and burundi. last but not least, the final lesson: strengthen the local footprint. we help to address the critical problem of chronically weak national and local health infrastructure. we have mobilised eur 180 million from the 11th european development fund, 2014-2020, to support the health sector in the drc, and the health sectors in burundi and south sudan also received european development funds. the response in the drc in 2019 is not the same as in west africa five years ago, in 2014. we have made significant progress in how we respond to ebola. despite the many challenges on the ground, and thanks to the dedication of epidemiologists and health workers, as i have already mentioned, more than 1 000 patients have recovered and more than 240 000 persons have been vaccinated, but it is also true that the reality on the ground sets the rules of the game. we must not forget that we are responding in a zone of active conflict where, unfortunately, access to clean water, food, basic healthcare and education is really a big challenge, with hundreds of thousands of cases of measles, malaria and cholera. and we have to respond on multiple fronts. this complicates our job and slows down our efforts, but it does not lessen our determination to save lives and help make ebola history. thank you, my dear colleagues, for your attention. i tried to describe the situation not only in the drc but also to compare five years ago in west africa, and i look forward to your interventions and a very fruitful discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you very much for your comments. and since this may be the last opportunity for the debate here in the plenary with you, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your service to the european union. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. and so i thank you for your service as a commissioner in the european commission, which is now leaving. a service which is so important in this area, because we need a europe with a strong external dimension. it is in the humanitarian field that europe is particularly strong and can show strength to be taken seriously in the world and also to make a difference in the world, to make a contribution within the framework of european values. ebola is a terrible disease, an abominable disease and a treacherous disease. in west africa, 11,000 people have died of ebola, and in eastern congo, ebola has re-emerged and is already spreading to neighboring countries. africa is in our neighborhood. many people in austria ask me: what is so special about the relationship with africa? for us europeans, the people of africa are our immediate neighbours. unlike the united states or china or other parts of the world, we live in the immediate neighborhood, and you have a responsibility to people in the neighborhood. so it's important that the new vaccine that can now be brought to the meeting against ebola can also be really effective by showing strength as the european union and making it possible to roll out this vaccine to the general population. it is in the interest of the people there, and it is in our own best interests.
the s&d group is therefore calling for the immediate release of all the prisoners of war and for the immediate release of all the prisoners of war. the commissioner has explained it well: we need to maintain a rapid response force, prepared to act in difficult conditions, learning from previous experiences, improving coordination of resources and communicating better to gain the trust of the populations. and in this respect, the european union's efforts deserve to be highlighted. he also said that the eu had to take action to ensure that the congolese people were not left behind. and it is also important to highlight the decision just yesterday by the european commission, through our european medicines agency, to grant marketing authorization for an ebola vaccine, as part of a wider programme which already includes clinical trials in congo of a vaccine scheme funded by the horizon 2020 programme. we invest, but we get results. the effectiveness and readiness that can be achieved in these emergency responses is also an incentive for us to include long-term investment in health, education, poverty reduction and sustainable development. next week, the 38th plenary session of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly will be held in the capital of neighbouring rwanda. the subject of ebola in particular will not be discussed, but topics and lines of action will be discussed which may help prevent epidemics that are difficult to control in the future. so, madam president, i conclude by saying that this is one more reason for the european union to commit itself unreservedly to the post-cotonou partnership, including its parliamentary dimension.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the current ebola outbreak is the second largest on record after the epidemic that killed more than 11 000 people between 2013 and 2016 and has already been declared a public health emergency of international concern by the world health organisation. the marketing authorisation of a new vaccine is a source of hope for people at risk of contracting the disease, but it is important to ensure that this breakthrough reaches at-risk populations as quickly as possible in a universal and free way. it is necessary to draw all the lessons from the previous epidemic, and not to forget that the fragile health infrastructure in many countries was a determining factor in the inability to cope with the progression of the epidemic. in addition to urgent emergency aid, support is needed for the construction of universal and free public health systems and the training of specialised staff. we must fight the hegemony of the pharmaceutical companies in the development of new medicines, the dictatorship of patents. we must cancel the external debt of these countries and put an end to the imf and world bank programmes which perpetuate backwardness and dependence. support is needed for the development of essential public services, in particular in areas such as water and sanitation.
madam president, commissioner, the declaration of a global emergency in the democratic republic of congo, one year after a new outbreak has strengthened this epidemic, has already left more than two thousand dead and three thousand virus-related infections. this shows the severity of this new outbreak. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, because prevention against this terrible virus is a top priority and the authorization on 11 november of the marketing of the ebola vaccine 'ervebo' is a fundamental step. coping with this epidemic in a conflict zone is a challenge, but in addition, we are now facing a little-known conflict: health workers face attacks and threats. in 2019 there have been more than two hundred attacks against hospitals, doctors and health workers with dozens of deaths precisely because of the false news that is transmitted through whatsapp saying that the virus does not exist and that it is a whole business for politicians to get money. it's terrible how frequent, how lethal the attacks are, and they're affecting the fight against the epidemic and the vaccination as the disease progresses.
madam president, we’ve all clearly agreed with the scale of the challenge that is presented when terrible diseases like ebola break out in places that already have pre—existing security and humanitarian challenges, where there is poor infrastructure and poor access to services for people. so we need to be clear in this debate not just about analysing the challenge of what is happening in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) at the moment, but about what we expect in the future, in the plan for africa that the commission president-designate has committed to. we need to be clear this evening in saying that we want health protection, prevention of disease and health security to be high—level strategic priorities in that plan, and if those things are not the top priorities in that plan, any such future plan for africa presented by the commission in the future should not command the support of this parliament.
madam president, as we have said, the current outbreak in the democratic republic of congo is the second largest after the 2014 outbreak in west africa, which killed 11,000 people. unfortunately, the drc is also facing what is cynically called a 'low intensity' war. low intensity that has killed over 6 million people since 1994. it is in this same region of kivu that ebola is at work and it is in this same region that armed groups are now destroying health centres, which is making humanitarian work very difficult. obviously, we need urgent action, and i thank you for the humanitarian action you are taking. it is important to inform the population and to work with the local communities. but above all, we must support a longer-term policy in the drc that makes health care effective and accessible to all. as you know, we have passed a law on conflict minerals. well, the business world has asked that this law be postponed until 2021, in terms of implementation. why? because the corporate world doesn't want to pay for resources. today, this country is a rich country and the people are sitting there, on gold mines and at the same time, they are dying. so when i hear that we need to treat ebola because it's contagious to the world, i say: we need to treat ebola because it's contagious in the drc to africans and that's where we need to act.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you so much for your positive contribution in this very fruitful debate. through this debate, i once again realise that we all agree that the ebola crisis in west africa was a test for the international community and it taught us that we cannot be complacent about ebola. five years after the largest ebola crisis in our history, we learned important lessons, we adapted our response, we redefined our approach and now we know better what to expect and how to respond. in fact, we are ready before the alarm goes off. more staff is on the ground, there are now vaccines and treatments with effective results, and the overall support is much more coordinated than five years ago. in the european union as a whole, and for me personally, until the end of my mandate (nobody knows when that will be), we will continue to be in close contact with the national authorities and local authorities in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and neighbouring countries, but at the same time, with the global coordinator, the world health organisation, and our partners on the ground, the un agencies and other international organisations, just to make sure that our response is really sufficient and adequate. we have to give an effective response to ebola to finally break the cycle of the epidemics. we should also start charting the post-ebola phase. i totally agree with many of you already focused on the problem of the healthcare systems in many african countries, especially in the drc. we must strengthen the national health systems and their capacities to respond to epidemics. of course in the drc and in the neighbouring countries, and as you know – this is one of my favourite expressions – we have to see stronger humanitarian—development nexus, which needs to be put in place in order to see sustainable health systems in these countries. i completely agree with this approach, but as you know, this is a medium- and long-term approach. at the same time, we have to focus on urgent needs, and this is our role as humanitarian actors. at the same time, we have to continue to advocate with our international partners for enough resources. frankly speaking, in some cases in africa, we europeans saw ourselves as alone. this is the hard reality on the ground. but, finally, we must not forget that the scale of ebola in eastern drc follows decades of violence, totally absent state institutions, constant displacement, poverty and the multiple humanitarian needs for millions of congolese in the region. we, together, already realise the root causes of this problem, but with parliament’s commitment, we have to manage to scale up our response to ebola, and i really sincerely thank you for this support – because i can compare the situation five years ago and now. i know well the situation on the ground and, at the same time, i can say that it was very important because we show people in practice that the european union cares outside of europe. the european union – yes – is a union of solidarity and we are determined to continue to do our best to fully control the current ebola epidemic as we did before and i’m sure, together, we will win in this very demanding battle. thank you so much again for your attention and for your support.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the ebola crisis is now at a turning point with the combined use of at least two vaccines - which had been the subject of serious controversy in the democratic republic of congo - and the discovery of treatments that can drastically reduce mortality. these developments should not lead us to slacken our efforts in the affected regions, where the epidemic often overlaps with chronic instability - as in the case of the north kivu region, which has been torn apart by a deadly civil war. in these areas, the distrust of populations traumatised by years of armed conflict hampers the deployment of health teams, sometimes leading to fatal attacks on medical staff. beyond the financial aspect, genuine human support for health professionals therefore seems indispensable. but let us not forget the safety of our own people. it would be curious that while japan, a country with relatively little contact with the african continent, is strengthening its preparedness against the virus, the european union is still waiting. this is all the more true given that ebola is accompanied by a second health threat: measles, which is already making a big comeback on our continent.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 172). colleagues, we are really running out of time so please stick to the allocated speaking time.
the western balkans faces many challenges, among which, in addition to the geopolitical competition of the great powers, the problem of illegal migration stands out. illegal migration, often organised by criminal groups, unfortunately also leads to tragic deaths, as we have recently witnessed at the schengen border between slovenia and croatia. but just as important to the region's fate is the need to preserve the european perspective for serbia, which is approaching a major political and social turning point with the upcoming elections. these elections will decide not only the future of serbia itself, but also the future of the entire region. i therefore expect and call on the commission to devote more attention to this issue than it has done so far and to step up its activities to preserve and, above all, strengthen the european perspective that has been drawn up for both serbia and the region.
mr. president, please! the planet's temperature has been higher in recent years than at any time in history. by 2030, climate change will push an additional 100 million people into poverty, and by 2050, agricultural productivity will be 5 to 30 percent lower. climate change, in addition to increasingly dry areas and melting glaciers, is also directly affecting the social and environmental situation in which we find ourselves. it is high time to deal with these changes in a more concrete, if you will, more forceful way, but also to pay particular attention to ensuring that the transition to exclusively renewable sources does not affect europe's competitiveness and its population. the resolution we are discussing today is a strong political message from the union ahead of the united nations climate summit in madrid. i welcome this and hope that the international community will also support such an ambitious project, because our actions directly affect our lives and the lives of all future generations.
in writing. the european parliament has been the main supporter of the eu accession process to the istanbul convention since 2016, with numerous debates and resolutions. it is essential to maintain and increase pressure on the european commission and, in particular, on the council, given the aggressive campaign against it in individual member states (including some of the 21 that have already ratified the convention). the campaign is based on disinformation and lies about the content of the istanbul convention, which hamper eu accession to the convention and the lifting of reservations to it. opponents of the convention place the fight against violence and the promotion of equality in conflict with tradition and with the rights of the child, although tradition is not affected by the convention, as long as it is not used as a justification for violence or discrimination, and children's rights are at most strengthened. the fear of right-wing populist movements towards the convention is in fact rooted in their awareness that the convention addresses the problem of violence against women and girls, as well as other vulnerable individuals, in an integrated way, by understanding and calling for the elimination of its structural causes. the latter is crucial, as women and girls in different environments are typically placed in a subordinate position (including economically and socially) and are therefore significantly more exposed to physical and psychological violence, which cannot be eradicated without radical changes in thought and social patterns.
in writing. – thirty years ago, protesters filled the streets of prague. the aspiration for freedom had reached the czech capital a few days after the fall of the berlin wall. this anniversary reminds us that in a democracy, the right to demonstrate and to protest peacefully is more vital than ever. most of all it enables the younger generation, but also others, to mobilise support for an alternative way of doing things. a vibrant civil society and pluralistic media are central in an open society, just like public participation in the democratic process. as a result, governments become accountable. the velvet revolution showed how this can be done even in the transition from an authoritarian to an open society. the values that it asserted are now proclaimed all over a europe where citizens travel and cross borders easily and freely. so, democratic features like an open society, accountability in governance, pluralism in information and debate, social justice are perhaps taken too much for granted. yet, extremism persists in europe. the values we hold are not self-evident and should be defended vigorously.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by underlining that the case that we are discussing here, as reported upon recently in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) by our lithuanian colleagues, is a matter of great concern to the council. i understand you will express your concern on the issue in a resolution later this week. we have already discussed this matter at the june session of the justice and home affairs council earlier this year. the issue of the possible abuse of interpol alerts is not new. we all remember the case of journalists with dual nationality who were arrested in 2017 on the basis of interpol red notices. the issue was regularly raised and discussed at the half-yearly meetings of the eu justice and home affairs senior officials with interpol, with the aim of exploring possible improvements to the then existing interpol systems and review mechanisms. a number of steps have been taken by interpol since then, including the creation of a dedicated law enforcement task force to review the red notices. continuous efforts in this direction are of great importance to protect the rights of our citizens, ensuring that an effective redress mechanism is in place to prevent the abuse of red notices for political reasons. we also have to emphasise that an interpol red notice alone cannot be the basis for a decision to extradite a person. that decision will still be subject to a judicial review. inside the eu, this review falls solely within the competence of the member states. all that said, it’s clear that we must keep monitoring this issue. the member states of the eu, when acting together, have a strong voice at interpol and we should use it to make sure that the system of red notices is used only for its legitimate purpose – that is to help us arrest dangerous criminals, not political opponents.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this topic here today. on 12 november, the lithuanian minister for justice spoke in the european parliament’s committee for civil liberties, justice and home affairs about the case. he informed the committee that lithuania had already raised its concerns in the european network of councils for the judiciary (encj). what we see today is that clearly the events that took place in 1991 still have effects in our union. the commission expresses its support and solidarity with lithuania, one of the eu member states, for the attacks its judiciary has faced from a neighbouring third country. lithuania has been constantly targeted by russian disinformation efforts and a wide array of false narratives have been employed to this end. the present case is not an exception. as proven in the work of the eu strategic communication task force, kremlin media have been, and continue to be, engaged in a process of historical revisionism. the events of 13 january 1991 have been portrayed by russian disinformation activities as a conflict between lithuanians, removing from the picture the crimes committed under the ussr. historical revisionism has been a core part of the russian disinformation activities. the revisionism serves the purpose of discrediting or undermining the lithuanian statehood sovereignty justice system and rule of law. any attack against the judiciary of an eu member state is an attack against the rule of law of the whole european union. the lithuanian judges and prosecutors are judges and prosecutors of the european union. we strongly believe in the importance of letting lithuania’s justice system conduct its work in full independence. we need to protect the integrity of our judicial system. the european commission stands in support of an independent judiciary, without which the union cannot function. as the commission underlined in its communication published in july this year on strengthening the rule of law within the eu, upholding the rule of law in the union is, and must remain, a key objective for all.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, almost 30 years after lithuania's liberation from the soviet union, the young generation of oppressed lithuanian citizens has no experience of life in captivity. but this generation knows well lithuania's path to freedom and independence, and most importantly, the price of freedom. every january 13th, lithuanian schools begin their school day with the lighting of memorial candles in honor of those who stood firm and unarmed against soviet tanks in january 1991. we lost 14 freedom fighters, hundreds were injured. among the dead were two youths, darius and ignas, who were only 17 years old. the families and loved ones of these and other victims have waited for years for historical justice. sadly, the vast majority of convicted criminals are hiding in russia and belarus. it is unfortunate that thirty years after january 13, with the lithuanian court decision, we have again felt the russian authorities' fraudulent efforts to discredit freedom fighters and persecute those who defend them. i call on you to act in political solidarity, because the story of lithuanian judges, prosecutors and investigators persecuted in russia can easily be repeated in other democratic european states, when they make decisions on the defense of democracy and freedoms.
for the verts/ale group thank you, madam president, minister, commissioner and colleagues. it is regrettable that the actions of the russian federation against the lithuanian law enforcement could be described in one word. the kremlin is so used to manipulating the russian legal system that it cannot see that the courts in democratic countries are independent. putin's russia has not only refused to help investigate the crimes of 13 january, but on the contrary, invokes the rule of law and seeks tools to spread disinformation. this attack is an attack on all judges in democratic countries and must be strongly condemned. if we remain silent, we create the illusion that the kremlin can continue to manipulate and try to influence the legal systems of our countries. i hope that by voting for this resolution, we will send a clear and unambiguous signal to the kremlin that such politically motivated attacks are intolerable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i stand by lithuanians. i pay tribute to the courage of the lithuanian judges giving the ruling in the 13 january case. it was the most thorough investigation and court proceedings in lithuanian history. fourteen people killed; innocent people killed; more than 800 heavily wounded. it was a war crime and a crime against humanity and a russian probe against both the prosecutors and the judges is absolutely unacceptable. we have to support lithuania strongly in this case.
madam president, as a former minister of justice of the czech republic, i want to express my solidarity with the lithuanian judges and prosecutors. an attack on lithuanian justice is an attack on european justice. it is right and i thank the institutions of the european union that we are so clear. a clear political condemnation of this russian attack must be adopted. the commission must make this clear in its negotiations with russia, that this is an attack on us, on europeans, on the european union. but above all, the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior of the member states of the european union must do everything within interpol to ensure that the principles of the international arrest warrant cannot be abused. this is a subject that has been debated at the level of european interior and justice ministers for a long time and now in this case it is seen again. we must do our utmost to ensure that the effort to punish international crime through the euro-arrest is not used to prosecute politically motivated individuals and to abuse them.
madam president, i am standing here as former minister of justice of the kingdom of spain, but also as current chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this european parliament in which the lithuanian minister of justice presented the case not only of harassment, but prosecution against judges and public prosecutors. and believe me, there is a strong majority in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which stands for fundamental rights, democracy, rule of law, and values and principles, in which the independence of the judiciary, impartial judges and autonomy of public prosecutors are an outstanding principle – a founding principle of the very foundation of the european union. that is why i think we must care about these judges and public prosecutors being prosecuted for having fulfilled their jurisdictional role, which is completely unacceptable. we stand by the lithuanian judges as we stand by european values and founding principles.
madam president, i too would like to express my deep solidarity with our member state, lithuania, and of course with its institutions and citizens. at the same time, i'd like to say that this case has two levels for me. one is the question of the abuse of international criminal law, or rather the law that links him to interpol, and secondly, it is also a significant further test for me by the russian federation, how far it can go. i would like to thank the commissioner here, because i think she has made both sides very clear. it is clear that there must be a clear appeal from the whole of the european union to the interpol authorities to stop this abuse, and secondly, we must also guard against the spread of fake news and revisionism that is being spread by some media. i think democracy has to be defended. and it's important that the media that is subject to this disinformation, or that is spreading it, so that when this system is abused repeatedly, there are clear sanctions that simply follow. we have freedom of speech, but it has limits.
thank you, prime minister, commissioner, minister and colleagues. the tragic events of 13 january 1991 marked the history of lithuania with the blood and loss of the lithuanian people. it is the price our nation paid for freedom and liberation from the oppressive soviet occupation. on january 13th, in the case of war crimes, for crimes against humanity, the persons convicted of participating in the aggression in lithuania. therefore, russia's actions aimed at initiating criminal prosecutions against judges, prosecutors, investigators who investigated the case are another direct attempt to rewrite history and deny the war crimes that were committed in lithuania. this constitutes an unjustified interference with the judicial independence of an independent country of the european union and a clear attempt to compromise the principle of the rule of law. the european union must demonstrate solidarity with lithuania and ensure that russia's illegal actions do not violate the fundamental principles of the european union and prevent any illegal attempts by russia to compromise the independence of the judicial system of the european union country.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to repeat in this place again that the commission expresses its support and solidarity with lithuania whose judiciary has faced attacks from a neighbouring third country. as has rightly been said here, it is not only a threat against lithuanian judges and prosecutors, it is not just not only an attack against lithuania, it’s an attack against the european union because also the lithuanian judges and prosecutors are european ones. the discussions here today underline once more the importance of the work we are undertaking on the protection of the rule of law within our union. you mentioned here also the aspect of disinformation distributed by the pro-kremlin media. i can confirm that the new commission will work intensively on the action plan on democracy, which contains a chapter related to the fight against disinformation and fake news, where i plan to come with proportionate and necessary measures to fight effectively against the disinformation which is considered to be a part of hybrid threats against the eu. today’s discussions remind us that we, as a union, must remain vigilant regarding any undue attack from foreign countries on our citizens, on our elections, on our democracy. so once again, i very much welcome that this chamber will discuss this issue and i want to thank you for the possibility to take part in the debate here.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i listened attentively to this exchange of views and to the concerns expressed. let me say that the lithuanian case is our common case. the finnish presidency is committed to the rule of law. we are committed to monitoring this important topic and we shall make sure that it is regularly addressed, in particular during eu meetings of senior officials with interpol. the presidency stands ready to explore, with interpol, what support the eu and the member states can deliver to avoid possible abuses, and is ready to inform the european parliament on the outcome of these discussions. i would also like to thank you very warmly for this very topical and important debate.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy security for the european union must be a priority. the energy system of the countries of the european union is very much dependent on the import of natural gas and oil, we all know that. it is also known that the main gas supplies to europe are from russia or via russia from the caspian countries. however, we have energy resources in the european union. the black sea is one of the major stakes in the global competition for energy resources. the black sea can be an opportunity for the european union's energy security. romania should be supported in the exploitation of black sea gas and oil. there are estimated to be about 100 billion cubic meters of gas reserves. the european union must have an interest in these resources, and they must be managed fairly and efficiently within the european union. romania has about 80% of the total area of 12 200 km2 sovereign exploitation rights, following the process at the international court of justice in the hague. that is why i want to draw attention and raise an alarm for the european institutions to support romania in gas exploitation and in connectivity for gas transportation through european corridors.
madam president! i'm thirty years old. statistically, i'm not supposed to be young anymore, but i still consider myself young or at least a representative of the younger generation here, that's for sure. but that doesn't mean i don't recognize the importance of intergenerational solidarity. on the contrary, because being the young future doesn't mean you're the older past. you are the present. and what do all generations want? a better future without compromising the present. demographic change is europe's biggest challenge and social policy is therefore key. i know that much of this depends on individual countries, but there is a great deal we can do. and i myself met with representatives of the slovenian federation of retired persons' associations a few times, and i will still do so, and i will also go to the field, after all, my father has also recently retired. what is the key to them? material and financial security, investing in infrastructure, learning to digitize. and, ladies and gentlemen, i believe you are aware of the importance of such platforms, so i ask you to support the intergroup on demographic change and solidarity between generations.
madam chairman! protecting the rights of minorities is not a burden for the majority to be placed on the privileges of a minority, but means protecting the diversity that enriches the european family. we must be concerned about the direct and indirect threats to minority rights that are taking place in the member states. i am particularly concerned about the constitutional changes to reduce the number of seats in both houses of the italian parliament. these changes seriously threaten the political participation and representation of minorities such as the indigenous slovenian national community in the italian republic. there is a real risk of an indirect breach of the obligations under the italian constitution and the 2001 law on the protection of slovenes in italy, which require the facilitation of the election of representatives of the slovenian community. i therefore call on the italian authorities and on my italian colleagues to stress the importance of protecting the rights of minorities and respecting european values in this case too.
mr. president, please! i voted for the resolution because i consider it the standard of civility. because both ratification of the convention on the rights of the child and respect for children's rights define us as human beings. in doing so, the european parliament confirmed the commitments and indeed strengthened the commitments of both the european union and the member states, and of course also opened up the possibility of accession to the convention by the european union itself and the commitment to all children, not just some. it is a strong resolution, which has rejected the attack of two groups, namely identity and democracy and the european conservatives and reformists, in which the key principles are the ownership of children's rights and children's benefits, what is at the forefront, and for the social democrat, of course, both child poverty and social exclusion are unacceptable. but i know that we must also work with the countries of the european union, the council of europe and the united nations.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again agriculture is the collateral victim of a conflict that goes beyond it. the us decision to impose almost 25% tariffs on iconic european agricultural products is highly political and deals a blow to a sector that has already faced russian sanctions since 2015 and is also preparing for the uk's exit from the european union. we must therefore work towards a rapid de-escalation of sanctions and trade tensions, and the european commission must be prepared to use all the tools at its disposal to help our sectors diversify their outlets or strengthen their presence on the us market. in this context, i would like to welcome the announcements by commissioner hogan in favour, in particular, of the establishment of cross-cutting promotion actions, the increase in co-financing rates and the relaxation of the promotion rules in the national wine programmes. these proposals are in response to our call for action. nevertheless, madam commissioner, we must remain vigilant, and if these sanctions should lead to a deeper destabilisation of the sectors affected, we should be prepared to use the unique tools of the cmoc, namely private storage or compensatory measures. finally, this episode shows us that in an increasingly unstable world, we must maintain a strong agricultural budget and continue to reform our prevention and market management tools.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in recent months we have seen an escalation of trade frictions between the united states and europe: first the tariffs on our steel and aluminium imports, then the american retaliation following the airbus judgment. trump is clearly using the tariffs to build electoral consensus ahead of the upcoming presidential election. a similar wto ruling on us subsidies to boeing will come in the next few months, allowing us to impose tariffs in our turn. in this scenario, we must be able to put a stop to this trade war. no victor will emerge from this iron fist. the temporary benefits are only an illusion, both economies will suffer significantly. the way forward is to seek political dialogue. in the meantime we must support the sectors affected by the american tariffs, particularly the agri-food sector, and avoid penalizing those european countries which are not involved in subsidies to the airbus consortium.
madam chairman! today we are discussing the impact of the us tariffs on european agriculture following the world trade organisation's decision in the airbus-boeing case. in discussing this, we must not overlook the broader context embodied by the deliberate policy of tariff wars, protectionism and economic blackmail. its aim is to destroy multilateralism in world trade, to restrict competition and, in particular, to shift jobs away from the rules and, above all, to the detriment of other stakeholders, in particular the european union. as this policy is a fact, i expect the present commission, and the new commission, to ensure that, both in the green package and in trade policies, multilateralism is not only preserved, but that the competitiveness of the european economy is safeguarded, promoted and strengthened, and that european jobs are preserved, both in industry and in agriculture, especially those that will be threatened by customs and other protectionist policies.
madam president! i will support the whole commission team, even though i don't agree with the whole composition. every month of inaction by the commission is a lost month for both the european union and slovenia. i want the commission to work above all for the common good and to keep all the promises it has made in the european parliament. but i think the challenges that are particularly important are: first, the transformation, and that is the green, social and digital transformation, which is linked together with a just and solidarity-based transition. work on greater integration for the benefit of all people and human rights, a european strategy for sustainable development, joint technological progress and own infrastructure is important. and finally, to the very expansion of the western balkans and also to the playing of the geopolitical role of a bulwark against multilateralism and the rule of international law.
member of the commission. – mr president, the congratulations from the honourable members just show me how responsible and strong i have to be, especially on this topic, because all the debates showed that this is really a very strong – and i would even say existentially important – political topic for the eu, because we are surrounded by actors whose doctrine for europe is: ‘the worse, the better’. and another doctrine: ‘a lie repeated one hundred times becomes the truth’. we know this from the past, especially the former communist countries, and i lived half of my life in such a country. we were brainwashed by everyday propaganda, which was created in the kremlin. that’s why i am quite happy that i can work on this agenda, because it has something to do with russian propaganda, which is spread in the eu. we cannot only blame the external actors. we have also our own very hard-working and capable producers inside the eu, so we have to be very clear about who we have against us. we are taking lessons from some past events – you mentioned some elections in recent years, so this is exactly what we are doing, and we are clearly saying we will not be passive. we will continue what we have already started. we will upgrade the action plan against disinformation. we will upgrade all the efforts and plans around the elections. we will continue working with the electoral network, and we will continue working and cooperating with the platforms which have subscribed to the code of practice against disinformation. there is plenty of work ahead of us, and i think the debate also showed where we still have the gaps. we work and will continue to work against illegal content. there is some illegal content which we recognise as illegal by our criminal laws. what i mean is child pornography, terrorist content and illegal hate speech, which is spread through online networks. my doctrine is: what’s illegal, what’s prohibited offline must also be prohibited online. there must be crime and punishment also in the online world. it cannot be a space without the law. i have had many debates with police and prosecutors, telling them that they have to go after the cases of detected and clearly illegal content online. this disinformation is a little bit more problematic because we cannot clearly say that this is illegal content. lying has always been here, and it was always recognised as not prohibited by the criminal law, and this is the legal issue. but we have to recognise the fact that this kind of lying, this kind of disinformation can be pretty dangerous. that’s why we are working against disinformation in the framework of working and fighting against hybrid threats, because this is also connected with our security. we work with the definition of disinformation which is needed to be focused and where we are concentrating our attention. we work with the definition that disinformation is verifiably false or misleading information which is created, presented and disseminated for economic gain or to intentionally deceive the public and which may cause public harm. for us, what’s important is its verifiably false factor – we are not fighting against opinions, we are fighting against lies which are proven lies which we can counter through information. we will focus on intensity of disinformation attacks, on the level of threat – that’s why i mentioned before that we will work with nato also on this issue. we will look at the intensity of manipulation and we will look at intentions. so our response will also have to be coordinated and well targeted. i think that we all are aware of the fact that the digital transformation and the revolution, having internet and social media, it is on one side a fantastic thing for a better life for the people. but also we have to see the risks. when i see what can happen from the sitting room – you can either initiate humanitarian help, save lives and the health of people or you can organise humanitarian crises or even genocide. look at what happened to rohingya. we also can see the cases when it is the starting point for revolutions. look, for instance, at maidan in ukraine. it started on social media. so this is not a black and white picture. we have to support the good things, but also to address the risks. i just want to briefly react on some of your comments on the budget – that it’s underestimated. we have already increased the budget of stratcom and of the professional units which deal with the fight against disinformation. we have to be better in analytical work; we have to support research; we have to be better in detection and education. we will not pay for all that with big money, because we have something very valuable, we have started cooperation between the eu institutions, the member states, with the platforms, with civil society and with research, because as you rightly said, we need to develop better technologies for detection and analysing disinformation which might cause harm to our society. we have to protect better the elections and to be very serious about the strong demand for gdpr to be used, is applied to protect the private data of voters so that we don’t have any further cambridge analytica cases. we have to do much better and more on transparency, including the transparency of the financing of political campaigning. we have the obligation to guarantee that in our member states and in the eu there will not be the cases that the last elections will be the last free ones. you never know, but we have the obligation to guarantee that we will have free and fair elections. we must not have winners of the elections who will win because they can lie better. we must not have winners who will be better at using dirty money and dirty methods. i think that this is what we have to work together on. i have many more comments, but i am quite far beyond the time. thank you very much for your attention. i am looking forward to your cooperation and again, thank you for your support for the new commission.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you again for the opportunity to participate in this debate which is a really topical issue, and also a priority area for our presidency. it is indeed our obligation to spare no efforts to protect our elections and our democracies from foreign interference, in full respect of fundamental rights, such as freedom of speech, media and association. dear members, many of you have referred in particular to russian influence and we take note of this concern. efforts to target malign actors, notably russian sources, have been highlighted in the general affairs council conclusions of february this year, and we will continue working horizontally across sectors and across borders, learning from each other through the exchange of information and best practices. although progress has been made, we must remain vigilant. we very much look forward to the european democracy action plan to be presented by the new commission, and to working with you, and with you, vice-president jourová, to take forward the initiatives which will be proposed.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. that a foreign power, from russia to china, is trying to promote its image and interests, or even to influence the political orientation of foreign states, is not surprising in itself. have not the united states and the european union done this themselves, for example through organisations such as mr soros's, which is active in hungary in particular? what about the allegations of possible chinese interference in some countries such as australia, according to recent revelations? finally, we could talk about mr erdogan's turkey, which is increasing its grip on the balkans every day. this harpoon about russia is therefore questionable in substance. it is also, and this is hardly surprising since the inspiration for this policy comes from the united states, in total contradiction with the vital, economic and geostrategic interests of the great european nations from france to italy and germany. finally, it is rooted in an insult to memory, as i have already expressed it within these walls, by scratching out with a stroke of a pen russia's fundamental contribution to the liberation of europe.
in writing. more and more external forces are interfering in our internal politics, influencing the real political situation in order to create instability and spread false information. such interference threatens our internal democracy. it is therefore crucial that we focus on raising awareness among citizens, who need to be able to distinguish between false and true information. the tech giants must also accept some of their responsibility. research has shown that some 50 million europeans were exposed to fake news via social media during the ep elections. the member states must use their common policy to protect the foundations of democracy and to resist any external attempts to undermine the eu's reputation.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on developments in the eastern neighbourhood (2019/2934 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome the vice-president of the commission, mrs mogherini, to our circle. since this is probably the last time i will be presiding when you speak to us, i would like to thank you for spending so much time in this house, despite your global responsibilities, and for the way you have also done your work in relation to the european parliament. thank you for your work and your presence here in the house.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for your very kind words. indeed, i was first of all thinking, i think it’s the third or fourth time that i say goodbye to this hemicycle either here or in brussels but indeed it is a pleasure to be back for the last session in which i will be in office, and just to reassure you that not only will i take the debates tonight, but also the urgencies tomorrow and the vote tomorrow, so i will be there until the very last moment possible and that is indeed somehow a sign of dedication and recognition of the work that this parliament is doing, in particular on foreign policy. let me also thank you for the opportunity with this debate to look back at these five years of work with our eastern partners. i remember very well when i took office in 2014 that was the most important element of our foreign and security policy agenda for sure. i can now proudly say that we have become closer, as the european union, to all our eastern partners, to all six of them, in different ways, and i believe we have managed to improve the situation of each and every one of them in this partnership and through this partnership even if, obviously, challenges remain, and i will try to go briefly through the achievements, the positive sides, but also the shortcomings and the things on which we will, i think, still need to work a lot together. i believe that this positive path that we have followed has been possible because our work has been focused always on our greatest common interests that we share between the european union and our eastern partners, and that is our people, the people of europe, whether they live inside or outside the european union. indeed, the 20 deliverables that we are implementing within the eastern partnership focus on the issues our people care the most about – jobs, energy security, education, strong civil society, independent media – things that are indeed on top of our citizens’ agendas. in these years, we have put in place ambitious association agreements and free-trade areas with georgia, with moldova and ukraine. their citizens can now also travel to the european union without a visa when they come for business, for tourism or to visit family. we have also achieved good progress in trade, energy, connectivity or the digital sphere. at the same time, we need to do more in the fields of rule of law, judiciary and fighting corruption. earlier this year we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the eastern partnership together with our partners, and we decided to launch a broad consultation process on the future of this partnership. we have collected now more than 200 contributions coming not only from governments and civil society, but also academia, the business community, members of the european parliament and other stakeholders, and i want to thank you for the contributions you have given us. i am proud i can now leave to you and to my successor this huge capital of ideas, achievements, but also aspirations and dreams, as a very solid foundation for the next eastern partnership summit and for the future of our partnership itself. of course each of the six countries has a different situation and different aspirations too, so let me very briefly go through them. ukraine has faced unparalleled challenges, with russia’s violation of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. since 2014, we have put together for ukraine the biggest support package in the history of the european union. we have invested more in ukraine than in any other country in the world and no other partner has invested in ukraine as much as we have done. this has led to some very important tangible results. i would say that ukraine today is a stronger, more resilient country than it used to be. the new government has taken a bold approach to reforms as the people of ukraine expect substantial change on the rule of law, on the fight against corruption and the prosecution of bank fraud. in in recent months, positive developments have also materialised on the security side, mainly thanks to ukraine’s constructive approach and the normandy four summit on 9 december is now an opportunity for substantial progress. our priorities are the same as those of our friends in the eastern partnership countries, be it security, good jobs, good governance or institutions that they can trust and rely on. this is also the case in the republic of moldova, where we have supported structural reforms to fight corruption, improve the electoral framework, and to ensure an independent and accountable justice system. moldova now has a new government and the need for genuine reform remains. as always, the european union, is ready to support reforms in all possible ways and as always our support remains conditional. our support is – and i believe will continue to be – focused in particular on reforms to fight corruption and vested interests and in ensuring that state institutions preserve, or rather sometimes build, their autonomy and are not politicised. moving to armenia. the government has committed to substantial democratic reforms in line with our partnership agreement. in fact, armenia considers the agreement with the european union as a true blueprint for reforms and we are proud of that. our support to the reform process has increased after last year’s political revolution, including to the ongoing justice reform and i am confident that this partnership will become even closer in the years ahead. with azerbaijan the work continues in order to finalise a new agreement. we want an ambitious agreement in line with international standards, one that ranges from human rights to the support of the diversification of their economy. we will also continue to work for the peaceful resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, encouraging and supporting dialogue at the highest level between armenia and azerbaijan. we fully support the mediation efforts and the proposals of the osce minsk group co-chairs, including through the work of our special representative. the european union was born as a peace project. building peace is our dna, it is our raison d’être. it goes to the core of who we are. we need i believe to continue investing enormously on this, as conflict has not yet disappeared from our continent. on the contrary, the security situation along the administrative boundary line with the georgian breakaway region of south ossetia has worsened in recent months. that is why we are increasing our eu monitoring mission’s presence on the ground, because our support to georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity is not just a statement or a declaration of principle: it is the foundation of our daily concrete work on the ground. georgia is a close and reliable ally in the neighbourhood in our partnership, and this is precisely why we don’t shy away when we see risks – as today we see the risk in the country of a backsliding on some important reforms in the rule of law area. finally, on belarus. the recent parliamentary elections were somehow a lost opportunity to deliver on international standards and we have called on the authorities to implement electoral reforms before next year’s presidential elections. you will know that we have divergences with belarus, particularly on human rights, yet i’m convinced the only way forward is to continue engaging and to finalise our partnership priorities. this would be the best way, not only to work on our mutual interests, such as the economy or nuclear safety, but also to better address the human rights situation, which is so important for us. so putting people first was our approach throughout these five years, with all the six partners, as diverse as they are, with a differentiated approach respectfully, and we’ve always focused on people and not on geopolitics, and i want to close on this: to stress once again something that i have discussed several times, not only with our partners in the east of europe, but also with our interlocutors a little bit further east, explaining clearly that our eastern partnership is not, and i believe will never be, against anyone – it’s for. it’s for our people. it’s for improving living standards, including democratic standards, for a more peaceful european continent based on partnership and cooperation. i went to close my short remarks by thanking you and this parliament for all the support you have given to our work with our eastern partners because, in particular in this field, the work of parliament has been key in liaising with the national parliaments through your many delegations, through your many visits, and this has been a fundamental pillar in accompanying our work, not only with the institutions, but also the societies of our six eastern partners. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have just heard from the high representative: the eastern partnership is an important instrument to promote the transformation of formerly authoritarian socialist systems into democratic, rule of law and market economies. in my view, there are three objectives which should guide the further development of the eastern partnership: firstly, the european union should make the political and economic integration of the eastern partner countries a strategic priority for the next decade. this is particularly true of ukraine, georgia and moldova, with which we have already concluded deepened and comprehensive association agreements. secondly, this integration process requires a clear, consistent strategy and active support from us as the eu and, on the other hand, serious efforts from our partners. the principle of more for more, more for more, but there can be no doubt about it, is also the principle of less for less. and as the high representative has just explained, we should focus on incentives for further reform progress in the areas of democracy, the rule of law, an independent judiciary and the fight against corruption. thirdly, to take advantage of the dynamism of the eastern neighbourhood, it is necessary that the european union does indeed move forward and adopt a qualitatively differentiated approach. the trio 2030 strategy for relations with ukraine, georgia and moldova, which was launched by mr andrius kubilius - who is here in the plenary and will be speaking shortly - could make a contribution to this. the eastern partnership is also part of a long-term strategy towards russia, as the success stories of the eu-associated countries can also give the people of russia hope that positive change is possible. these are the objectives which we as the european parliament should pursue with determination, in close cooperation with the european commission which was elected today. and these objectives should be presented in time for the relevant summit next year. and finally, dear federica, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, your committee in this european parliament, let me say a word of thanks. as almost every wednesday during plenary sessions in strasbourg, you are sitting on your seat discussing foreign policy with interested colleagues from all the political groups, let me wholeheartedly thank you once again for the excellent work you have done in the last five years. i am saying that as a representative of the epp to a socialist. we always had a wonderful cooperation. i wish you all the best for your future and hopefully we will come together at some other stage again. thank you so much, federica.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, while today’s debate is more generally about the eastern partnership, allow me to focus on two countries specifically – georgia and azerbaijan. let me start with recent developments which are to my group’s concern in georgia. large protests are currently held in tbilisi, since the government failed to deliver on its commitment to change the electoral code in 2020 to a full proportional system. this promise was given to the georgian voters and we expect all georgian parties to deliver on this promise. while georgia did come a long way in democracy during the last few years, the current political crisis risks great instability in the country and that’s something that georgia can simply not afford. we expect from all political parties that dialogue is initiated on how to solve the current deadlock. then in azerbaijan, which is far from georgia’s level of democracy, the aliyev dynasty has a horrible track record when it comes to human rights. only last month, authorities have violently dispersed peaceful rallies of opposition parties and dozens of participants were detained, beaten and mistreated. illegal wiretapping of eu diplomats in private conversations with opposition and civil society makes their job impossible, and the failure of the eu to confront all this is sometimes tied to a fear that azerbaijan may turn to moscow. well, i believe that already happened a long time ago and now we see unfortunately the confirmation. high representative, let me also, on behalf of the s&d group, thank you for the last 5 years. we have always been proud to see you heading our foreign service, being the face of the eu's foreign policy and we only wish you all the best in the future.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, high representative, no goodbyes yet and thank you indeed from the very start for the cooperation we have had with alde and the renew group along and looking forward for your future. i don’t know what position you will take but i am sure our roads will cross and we will have a good and effective cooperation. the eastern partnership initiative allowed us, the european union, a very unique opportunity of creating a zone of partnership and security along our external eastern borders. for our partners it is a chance to attain prosperity and stability by adopting european standards. we have learned many lessons over the past ten years, including the one that application of programmes without adjusting them to realities, needs and the aspirations of concerned countries does not work. for the next decade of the eastern partnership, we need to be more ambitious and, instead of inventing projects, we should invite our partners to join the ones that we ourselves are implementing in the eu. our eastern partners must be given a real partnership, therefore, to be included into our initiatives on climate, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, connectivity, energy and social inclusion programmes and priorities. it is evident that those who put more efforts and present positive results on reforms carried out should be allowed to deepen their aspirations with the european union. we have several countries which, without eu membership, are participating in our single market. ukrainian workers are already important contributors to lithuanian, polish and other economies, and they deserve to have their labour rights fully guaranteed. it needs to be emphasised once again that democratic criteria, especially adherence to human rights and the rule of law, need to be our ultimate priority. seconding kati piri’s concerns, i wish to express our concern on the situation in georgia as well as to make it clear that we have to react to the situation in tbilisi.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i thank madam high representative for the last five 5 years of cooperation and wish her good luck. my support for the nations of our eastern partnership is unequivocal since my time spent in the foreign department of solidarnosc. after all these years, i think that two issues are stable there. one is the very stable western vocation of societies and their will to stay with us. the second one is russia’s will to subordinate them and to destabilise them. despite our efforts, there are still very difficult issues that we have to raise. many dynamic things are very positive. yes, we have successes in our policies for sure but there are some matters for concern – ukraine still under occupation, azov seaports still blocked, and prisoners still having their place in russian prisons and prisons in the eastern part of ukraine. in georgia, that is a matter of real concern. i’m really concerned by recent developments. i think that political crisis is extremely dangerous. we have to counter this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. our eastern neighbours still face serious challenges: climate change, energy poverty, independent management of resources, the creation of good jobs and the overcoming of past conflicts, to name a few, but above all: the democratization of these societies. and that is why our neighbourhood policy must continue to support these countries and their people in this process. this also means more rule of law, an independent judiciary, the involvement of civil society and the empowerment of actors to intervene in societal development, efforts to combat corruption, the development of stable democratic institutions, the promotion of political dialogue and confidence-building measures, transparency, independent media, peaceful conflict resolution and the promotion of peace, security and stability. the current developments are worrying and they are concrete. example: the republic of moldova. the election of maia sandu was a glimmer of hope. when sandu proposed a law amendment on november 8 that would have allowed candidates to be nominated directly for the office of attorney general, socialists and democrats called for a vote of no confidence, which the government narrowly lost. the sandu government was clearly a threat to the kleptocratic system of the old elites. now moldova seems to be returning to the dark practices of past governments. ion chicu has apparently indirectly returned oligarch vladimir plahotniuc to power, and opposition activists such as ana ursachi and grigore petrenco continue to face criminal prosecution. i call on us to think together about how we can guarantee the constitutional reality and independent judiciary in our eastern neighbours.
mr president, madam high representative, first of all i would like to thank you for the five years of good cooperation and wish you success in your future work. the european union, by launching the eastern partnership in 2009, sought to improve relations with countries with which it shares strong energy and therefore security interests, while strengthening general, multilateral and regional cooperation. through comprehensive trade relations, the european union wanted to strengthen its influence. in recent months we have witnessed events in these countries that have a definite bearing on those plans. as ukraine prepares for the normandy summit, the first in three years, he encourages a ceasefire and prisoner exchange. unfortunately, a new wave of instability is brewing in georgia due to the lack of compromise on electoral reform. elections in belarus consistently fall short of international standards. the opposition has no more representatives in this mandate. in moldova, the ruling coalition recently broke up. while the situation in armenia appears stable, apart from the permanent conflict with azerbaijan, i would like to emphasise the european union's relationship with azerbaijan. the lack of reaction is unacceptable when the talks of eu officials are published through the public media and the leadership openly opposes the eu. it is clear that, ten years after the establishment of the eastern partnership, the geopolitical challenges and political circumstances in these countries call for stronger action by the european union. the forthcoming summit under the croatian presidency represents an excellent opportunity. i call on the new commission to thoroughly review its relations with our eastern neighbour in line with its announced geopolitical ambitions.
mr president, first i’d also like to thank federica mogherini for the very good cooperation we have had here. the eastern partnership must remain high on the agenda of the european union. it is in the interests of the eu to have a stable and safe neighbourhood. of course, we must continue to encourage eastern partnership countries to move forward with their much-needed reforms and help them on their way. but what is hampering most the progress in all these countries is still russia’s wish to hold them in its sphere of influence. five out of six eastern partnership countries have conflicts on their territory. this is what prevents these countries from moving forward. the new european commission should have as one of its priorities working towards finding solutions to these frozen, or not so frozen, conflicts, so that the eastern partnership countries can focus their energy on the much-needed reforms and development. it is imperative for the eu to support the territorial integrity of the eastern partnership countries. also, we must guarantee adequate funding in the new mff to help them continue with reforms. high-level, regular dialogue is also necessary, and more concrete goals are needed for post-2020. finally, special attention still should be on georgia, ukraine and moldova, which have shown keen interest to move closer to the european union.
mr president, it is also my pleasure to thank the high representative for so actively cooperating with the european parliament. i have taken note of your growing appreciation of parliamentary cooperation in the eastern partnership and i believe that we have achieved quite a lot during these five years because our colleagues have been very eager to cooperate, and the cooperation has reached ever-deeper areas of policy-making. i believe that we have to continue on that path. but you also said that more needs to be done in the area of the rule of law and the judiciary, and i couldn’t agree more with you because we should not be complacent about what we see happening at the moment. i believe that what colleagues have already mentioned concerning the recent developments in moldova and georgia are very much due to the lack of stability of the institutions. we have tried to support institution-building, but we see that, for instance, in moldova, the grip of the old regime is very hard, and it is a question of the old power trying to defend its vested interests. if we can do more there, in these areas in our neighbouring countries, i think it’s worth increasing the efforts on the rule of law and the judiciary. it’s interesting that international idea, which has published its annual global report on democracy, says that on our continent the only country that has improved its democratic standards in the past year is armenia. i’m very happy to say that the developments in armenia are a bright light in this area, but we definitely need to invest more in fighting corruption, promoting good governance and supporting the resilience of our neighbouring countries against propaganda and disinformation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – we are not talking about enlargement tonight, we are talking about creating a more stable and democratic neighbourhood in the european union. its aim, as the high representative has explained, is to benefit people. and a very concrete outcome of this cooperation is visa-free travel for georgians, moldovans and ukrainians. so, it’s not an elitist project.
i must tell you, mr president, that you are well aware that every step towards enlargement requires unanimity and that every step towards enlargement follows a clear procedure of obligations to be fulfilled and that therefore no one acts arbitrarily, but the rules must be respected by both sides. don't throw sand in people's eyes.
mr president, madam high representative, my compliments to you. you're going to have a difficult term, but we wish you success and hope we can work together to make it happen. now with regard to the eastern partnership, it is extremely important, especially for the countries that are in the eastern part of the european union. but for it to be successful, madam high representative, it must be results-oriented, not promises and empty talk. as for the countries in the black sea region - we are talking about azerbaijan, we are talking about georgia - there are projects that can and should be implemented with the help of the european union, such as the creation of such infrastructure that will help develop the ports in poti, so that these countries can be reached more easily, so that they can be opened to the european union. this is real work that will produce real results, and it won't be just a statement and a story that hangs in the air. we've seen a lot of that talk in the last term, but it didn't work. you need to focus on specific things that are happening.
mr president, i will use this opportunity to thank you, ms mogherini, for all your presence and active participation in this house, and i wish you good luck in your future work. indeed, the eastern partnership has a strategic importance for the european union, and the spread of european rules in the neighbourhood is the essence of the eu’s external relations. but today we need to rethink our approach and to introduce new priorities. significant changes have occurred in our eastern neighbours. in recent years, despite their own historical pact, ukraine, moldova and georgia have shown a desire to become closely involved with the eu. unfortunately political processes are still complex, democracies are still fragile, and we are constantly witnessing mass protests and the collapse of governments. the main reason for these governments is the existence of hot and frozen conflicts on their territories. therefore i call on the incoming commission to continue and deepen our assistance in building stable and prosperous european democracies in the eastern neighbourhood.
mr president, mrs mogherini, i want to talk about the republic of moldova, a state on the eastern border of the european union. the last time we discussed the republic of moldova in the european parliament plenary a pro-european government had just been installed. in the meantime, this government was overthrown by the pro-russian party, and the situation in the republic of moldova has significantly worsened. is this a serious thing for the european union? yes, because only if we have states with pro-european governments in our neighbourhood, states that want to get closer to the european union, can we live in safety and stability within the european union. the situation in the republic of moldova has deteriorated and i ask you, madam high representative, colleagues, to act. just nice words like that we support pro-european forces are not enough. what do we have to do? first of all, let's tell the pro-russians what the terms are for the relationship between the european union and their government. the pro-russian prime minister of the republic of moldova was visiting moscow, his first visit, non-transparent meetings, allegedly non-transparent economic aid. we have to say what the rules of the game are and we expect those rules to be followed. in addition, we have to support the pro-european forces, we have to bring them to brussels, we have to bring them to the table of dialogue and we have to make it very clear that we will work differently with pro-european politicians who want to take the republic of moldova to the european union, than we work with pro-russian politicians. we have to act. just polite, diplomatic words and statements are not enough.
mr president! the eastern european neighbourhood is a region of strategic importance to the european union, alongside the southern neighbourhood, and faces serious challenges. following the democratization of the currency, most countries today face the growing influence of oligarchic political elites that ignore the will and interests of the population and thus distance the region from european values. of course, these processes do not take place in a geopolitical vacuum or without the participation of external actors. russia is openly and increasingly aggressively changing the domestic political, social and security order in most countries in the region. turkey is also becoming more active, pursuing its own geopolitical interests rather than reform and democratic progress. and there's china, which may be acting more quietly and more wisely, but it's acting more harmfully in the long run for the region and especially for the european union. it is therefore high time that the european union offered the countries of the region, and in particular civil society, mechanisms of continued support for democratic and reformist forces.
finally the european court of justice ruled that the sale of food and drink produced in illegal settlements and stolen palestinian land must be labelled, and that's a start. however, this does not go nearly far enough. the un special rapporteur, michael lynk, was right when he said any trade or investment with israeli settlements provides them with the economic oxygen to continue to grow. we in the eu cannot call these settlements illegal and an obstacle to peace and, at the same time, continue to provide them with the economic means to thrive. trade with illegal settlements makes us complicit in the oppression of the palestinian people. both houses of the oireachtas in ireland have voted in favour of a bill which would ban imports from illegal settlements, yet the irish government continues to block this legislation. member states, including ireland, wax lyrical about supporting the two-state solution but fail to recognise one of these states palestine. fence-sitting by eu member states embolden the unstable trump administration and its dangerous policy towards israel. (the president interrupted the speaker) i have one and a half minutes, chair. for years we have had and we have heard mealy-mouth sentiments from the eu about israeli violence, israeli violation of human rights and breaches to the eu and yet the eu applies moral equivalence to the occupier and the occupied. it's more than a joke.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a move perhaps not too unexpected given the precedent, secretary of state mike pompeo announced on november 18 a radical change in us policy regarding israeli settlements in the west bank, stating that they will no longer be considered illegal, not in accordance with international law. with this misguided decision the us administration has given up, probably for good, its role as a credible mediator in the middle east conflict and, at the same time, has dealt a further painful blow to the prospects for a two-state solution. it's really hard, given the situation, but i want to be constructive. with the united states having voluntarily abdicated the impartiality necessary to play that role, it is now more than ever the union's duty to step forward and try to revive from the ashes a peace process which is complex but absolutely necessary. indeed, while the entire middle east is on fire, the decades-old israeli-palestinian conflict is being pushed into the background as a non-priority, a status quo that is ultimately "sustainable". this is a big mistake. it is the mother of all regional disputes and its solution is a sine qua non for the stability of the whole macro-area. i thank the outgoing high representative for his commitment and i ask the new commission and the new high representative to have the courage and the initiative to come to the parties, israel and palestine, with a new road map, with a new concrete proposal and with new hope. respect for international law, respect for the judgments of our court of justice and consistency. we owe it to our values, we owe it to our role as credible mediators, otherwise we will lose another chance to be really influential in our neighbourhood.
madam president, there is a political aspect, there is a moral aspect, there is the role of the european union, and there is the overall position of the european union. the moral aspect, in my view, is that we are talking about the only jewish state on this planet, and we are talking about the ancient home of the jewish people, which has been the home of the jewish people not only for decades or for centuries, but for thousands of years. so who are we as the european parliament to judge any jew who settles there? then there is the political aspect. if we isolate the question of settlements from everything else, this would mean violating the peace process, not to support it. because it is only one aspect of many different aspects. the role of the european union in the peace process must be the one of an honest broker, of a force that underlines that security is the thing that israel needs. security is the thing that is needed and that’s why it is important that israel remains in control of the areas where threats for the civilians in israel come from. and as long as there is not security provided from these areas, it is important that this control remains and the peace process needs the eu as an honest broker. the overall position of the european union must be, more than ever, to stand beside israel in order to support israel. israel is the only democracy, the only rule of law state in the middle east. ms mogherini, thank you for your work. i will also demand that this is the position of the eu, and is clearly underlined in the work of your successor.
madam president! the resolution of the palestinian issue is moving further away from the decision by president trump on the capital of jerusalem and the status of israeli settlements in the palestinian territories. at the same time, the humanitarian crisis in the palestinian territories, particularly in gaza, is deepening. i cannot shake the impression that part of the international community, for narrow self-interest, does not want a lasting solution to the palestinian question and is even satisfied with the status quo. i personally believe that the european union, in the context of the common foreign and security policy, must insist more strongly on the already agreed two-state solution, and demand that israel stop its policy of settlement expansion in the palestinian territories. the european union is committed to the peaceful settlement of the conflict in the region and to the restoration of the rule of law and respect for human rights. but despite recent moves and violence, the fact remains that this issue, which is the issue of everyone in the middle east, cannot be resolved except at the negotiating table.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i am sure that the incoming commission, the incoming high representative, will not only take good note of this debate in this chamber, but will also find a way to preserve the unity of the european union and the member states, to preserve our strong position in defence of international law and also keep the constant relations and coordination with others in the world – starting from the un system but also looking at the arab world in the region, and not only in the arab world, knowing the situation on the ground very well – and will try to indicate with wisdom and realism the way forward. i am sure they will also manage to see what kind of further initiatives can be taken to try and help the situation move forward and avoid the wars becoming irreversible, if you will allow me to put it this way. there are times when there are issues on which some advancements are possible, and some other issues and some other situations that, in certain particular periods of time or of history, require us – i would say the forces of wisdom and reason in this region, for sure, but i would like to say in the world – to try to avoid that the worst becomes a fait accompli, irreversible. and i have the impression – i have discussed this several times with many in the region – that these times we’re living in are asking us to play that role, in this moment to try and avoid that things go so far, that the positive perspectives for a solution to the conflict are still viable in the future. let me just comment on one thing that i’ve heard during the debate and that has impressed me a lot, because there is the issue of the settlements itself, there is the work we have been doing and we will continue to do, i’m sure, as european institutions on the israeli—palestinian conflict, on the arab—israeli conflict – because there are two conflicts in one – but then, even more than that, there’s the role that the european union has in defending and preserving the international rules—based order. and someone in this chamber said, and i quote: ‘the settlements are disputed, yes, but illegal, no’. i have the impression that we are moving into a place – and i hope the european institutions, including this chamber, don’t move into that place – where it’s international law that is disputed. that is a very dangerous place. so i hope that, beyond differences and divergences, you will manage not only to advise and ask the commission and the council in this respect to help contribute to unblocking the situation in israel and palestine, to help implement international law when it comes to the settlement issues, but also that you will always keep in mind, as members of the european parliament, that international law is not up for discussion, it is to be respected. and that when you reach the point of discussing whether international law is good or wrong, then you’re already in a place where europe shouldn’t be.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on the streets of the middle east in baghdad, in beirut, in tehran and other cities, i’ve witnessed large demonstrations, which are still ongoing in all countries. events are unfolding and each case is different, yet there seem to be some common causes. the triggers have been specific policy initiatives but the protests have then expanded, targeting inequality, sectarianism and corruption and asking for better governance and better job opportunities. our response to these protests has common elements, too. we have condemned any act of violence, from all parties. we have urged restraint in handling the demonstrations. we have asked for respect for freedom of expression and prompt investigation of instances of violence. we have also demanded that external actors always respect this country’s sovereignty. now, let me briefly comment on a few specific cases, the ones you mentioned on the title of the debate. first on iraq. the challenges that iraq is facing are unique. the country is finally coming out of a long conflict, it needs reconciliation and reconstruction. it also needs to deliver on its people’s aspirations to a better life and better opportunities for all. these expectations need to be fulfilled if iraq is to stabilise in the long term, and i’ve seen myself during my last visit there – in july, if i’m not wrong – how far the country has come when it comes to being ready to work on reconciliation and reconstruction, but also how fragile this progress is. and i think we are now seeing this clearly. from the beginning of the protests we have been asking for dialogue and steps to quickly address the protesters’ concerns, including those steps suggested by the un mission. this is even more urgent today. we also continue to encourage iraq to maintain its policy of constructive engagement with all its neighbours in times when its role as a voice of wisdom is essential in the region. we europeans have always said that we want to help the people of iraq win the peace, and this is what the people of iraq are asking right now. so, we will continue to be on their side and to accompany iraq on its path towards a stronger, more inclusive and more just democracy. in iran, the recent protests also stem from genuine frustration with the current economic hardships. citizens have the right to peacefully demonstrate, and there is no justification for the disproportionate use of violence by the security forces. all reports of incidents deserve swift and full investigation by the relevant independent authorities. i also want to emphasise that we expect the iranian authorities to ensure the free flow of information and access to the internet at all times. let me add something that is clear and obvious, but it is important to clarify this once again, that this has nothing to do and should have nothing to do with the implementation of the nuclear deal with iran. we continue to fully believe in the diplomatic and security value of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), of the nuclear deal with iran. yet it is no secret that the preservation of this agreement has become increasingly difficult. and let me announce today that we will have a joint commission with iran that will be convened on 6 december to this end. as you know, together with the role of high representative also comes the role of a coordinator of the joint commission of the jcpoa of the nuclear deal with iran, and we have worked in this capacity so far very hard to keep the unity, not only of the europeans – that has been done – but also of the participants to the nuclear deal that have remained in the agreement after the us withdrew. and i believe this unity is key to preserve the agreements as much as possible. we all agreed just a few weeks ago that we must spare no efforts to preserve the deal, and let me also say that i wish my successor all the best as he takes over also this difficult essential role: that of coordinating the joint commission of the jcpoa. third and last, but not least at all, let me say a few words on lebanon where protests have led to the prime minister’s resignation. lebanon is a very special partner for the european union and it holds a very special place in our heart. today, the people of lebanon are asking for good governance, good governance and good governance, beyond any sectarian line, and this is truly inspiring, as lebanon society often is. it is urgent to address the demands of the lebanese people while preserving the peace and the stability that lebanon has worked so hard to achieve in all these years. this calls, first and foremost, for the swift formation of a functioning government to ensure political and economic stability, followed by the rapid and decisive implementation of effective reforms on governance and corruption, in line with the lebanese people’s aspirations. this moment can become somehow an opportunity to deliver the reforms that lebanon so urgently needs while, at the same time, preserving the country’s stability and resilience. and let me add one word on something that is not on our focus specifically tonight but is still there. let us not forget that the whole middle east remains an incredibly fragile place. we have just discussed the situation in israel and palestine, let us not forget that the situation in syria is still far from being settled. on the contrary, in the north-west of syria, the situation has got worse once again, only a few weeks after the turkish military operation opened a new front in the north-east of syria. so, regional tensions are still running high, and this is putting even more importance and pressure on those in the region and beyond the region who are trying to calm down the situation and find sustainable outcomes to the current dynamics. in these years, we’ve been trying to build multilateral solutions to all crises in the region and we have worked very closely with our partners – including lebanon and iraq – to stabilise those countries to bring investment for reconstruction and economic growth and to support these countries in their reform agendas. each of these countries will have to find its own way to overcome their current difficulties. nobody can do it for them. but the european union will continue, i believe, to support dialogue and accompany reforms. it is one of the regions that is closest to us, i often say it is our common region, and the european union, i believe, will continue to engage as a reliable partner and as a force for peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have heard about the recent demonstrations and uprisings in iran. these protests, which have been going on for over 11 days, took place in all 31 provinces of iran and in 176 cities. the main opposition has announced that the number of those killed during the iranian people’s nationwide uprising is over 450, but the number of deaths could be much higher. the names of over 150 of the young men and women who were brutally murdered by iran’s security forces have already been published and this is really a very sad list. for example, this list includes nikta esfandani, who was just 14 years old, and in her case the regime’s officials told her family that since she was only 14, and was a kid, they would not ask for the cost of the bullets – this really is unbelievable. president rouhani’s government, which some regarded as so-called moderate, quickly shut down the internet to prevent the news and videos of these crimes from coming out of iran. the government is also refusing to hand over the bodies of those killed to their families or preventing funerals for them. i am very concerned about the fate and treatment of over 10 000 detainees. some of the regime’s top officials have hinted that many of those who have been arrested will soon be executed – executed by public hanging even. they are especially focusing on the members of the resistance units of pmoi, which the regime has blamed for this uprising. the crimes carried out by the iranian regime are, by any measure, crimes against humanity. we must not allow the people who have come onto the streets to stand for their rights to be arrested, tortured or silenced. i should remind you that the iranian opposition leader ms rajavi has called on the united nations to dispatch quickly fact-finding missions to iran, and that the regime leaders must face justice for perpetrating crimes against humanity. to conclude, we in this parliament should stand with the people of iran and i urge the eu high representative to do the same by ending current policy because, from my point of view, this current policy has failed and will only damage the credibility of europe, not only amongst the people of iran but also among people around the world. people are watching us and wait for our action. i believe that the european union should act now.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there are traces of iran’s operations all over the region, in every conflict, every war, and this presence is detrimental to stability and peace there. yet, the worst of the actions has been reserved for iran’s own population that is multi-ethnic and diversified, yet acting in accord against the regime of the mullahs recently and during the past two years. the recent protests are massive: in all 31 provinces, in the majority of iranian cities. the internet has been suspended and there are really barbaric, violent acts by the regime against populations. there are over 300 dead already during the recent 11 days, more than 10 000 have been arrested and we should be concerned about their fate and their whereabouts. as happened many years ago with political prisoners, their fate seems to be the fate of victims of judiciary crimes. in view of a possible crime against humanity, we are obliged by international law to intervene, to act, instead of smiling at mullahs.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not what has happened in the middle east in recent weeks is a real tragedy. the fact that thousands of people took to the streets in iran because of the social imbalance in the country was and is their right. and that they did this despite the ban on demonstrations, that they dared to do this despite the lack of freedom of speech and communication, it took enormous courage and so many lives. no, you don't shoot at protesters, and you have to say that so clearly. the death of people is not collateral damage in the name of some larger cause or whatever. i am therefore standing here and i bow down - also on behalf of our group, but also on behalf of many others - to the demonstrators who were killed, to their families, their women, their children and their parents. mr president, on behalf of the iranian delegation, of which i am the chairman, i am writing to you and asking you to write a letter to your colleagues in iran to the iranian parliament because i believe that not only the commission but also the european parliament must respond. we expect you to do that. at the same time, i am ashamed to say that we europeans have literally done nothing to counter the devastating us sanctions. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the disappointment with the west is enormous. i tell you one thing: we are part of the problem, and this halfhearted eu policy must finally be stopped.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the middle east is so complex that it should perhaps be dealt with in a more structured way. while it is true that there is a widespread crisis situation in the shia crescent, it must be admitted that the specificities of the individual countries deserve separate discussion. i want to focus on a country that is very close to my heart, small but of incredible strategic importance for the entire region: lebanon, and the beirut is facing an unprecedented crisis, both political and economic, with debt at 150% of gdp, out-of-control inflation and a plummeting credit rating, and the economy is on the verge of collapse. urgent reforms are needed, but they are impossible to achieve given the equally complex political situation, precipitated by the resignation of prime minister hariri and the difficulties in forming a new government. ladies and gentlemen, we all know how crucial this country is geopolitically and the dire consequences that would follow if it were to be destabilised for any length of time. we need a new government that can commit to implementing the necessary economic reforms, but at the same time commit to fighting against the widespread corruption, which remains one of the causes that led to the street demonstrations. but lebanon alone cannot get out of this crisis, even considering that there are still about 1.5 million syrian refugees living in the country today. we need strong and timely support from the european union, much more substantial, much more important than the assistance we are already providing. i call on the new commission to deal with this emergency as quickly as possible, as the consequences of any major intervention would be unpredictable and certainly dramatic.
mr president, madam mogherini, i can only agree 100%, or even 200%, with the statement you have just made about the situation in the middle east. it is true that the middle east has been in turmoil for some time, and everywhere the demands that are emerging are essentially the same: social demands and demands for good governance. i will not repeat what my colleagues have said, whether it be mr guetta or mrs neumann. everywhere we see governments responding to these legitimate demands with repression and often, too often, violence. the european union has a real role to play in basing its foreign policy on respect for the rule of law, once again, and on respect for multilateralism. the european union, unlike the trump administration, must make a concrete contribution to de-escalating tensions in the region and continue to defend peace and respect for fundamental rights. the stability of the middle east, as we have said, will require a democratic transition which we europeans must support through dialogue - as you have done - but also through supporting and protecting the people.
mr. president, please! the middle east is becoming a series of crises and wars that could push the region and its neighbors deeper into the abyss. in addition to the syrian tragedy, yemen, iraq and lebanon are in or on the brink of a precipice. ironically, the key to solving many of these problems lies in iran, which is decisively and fatally shaping the fate of the region. the countries of the region have become hostages of iranian influence and policy through the so-called shiite crescent. in addition to the nuclear deal, iran has used the regional crises as a means of exerting pressure on the region and the international community following the collapse of the nuclear deal. this is a crude policy that neither the eu nor the international community has a response to, and us sanctions do not affect iran's behavior. the spread of instability in the region is also increasingly posing a direct threat to the security of the european union, and i therefore call on the new common representative for foreign and security policy to give this priority and to prevent further destabilisation of the region, which would be reflected, inter alia, in the increasing number of refugees at the borders of the european union.
madam president, the partnership agreement between the eu and acp, known as the cotonou agreement, was signed in 2000 and will expire in february 2020. negotiations for the successor to the agreement are still ongoing and we must remember why this partnership is important. it’s fostered key political dialogue, strengthening relations between us and the acp countries via frameworks based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it’s allowed for important discussions on issues such as freedom from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity, and sex and relationship education, as well as provisions for corporate social responsibility and assistance to tackle tax evasion. we must revitalise and reinforce the eu’s relations with the acp countries. we must emphasise the importance of the parliamentary dimension of the future agreement in order to ensure democratic accountability at all levels and to promote the legitimacy and visibility of the partnership. we must also scale up the involvement of civil society and ensure any new agreement is rooted in the 2030 agenda with a peer review mechanism for sdg implementation. the eu and the acp are collectively a strong global voice and we can tackle shared challenges, and the new partnership agreement must reflect this.
madam president, commissioner mimica, i welcome you with appreciation on this, your last appearance in a plenary session of the european parliament to debate nothing less than the eu-african-caribbean-pacific agreement seventy-eight countries after twenty years of operation, and with the mandate of parliament to strengthen the character of civil society, commitment to values and parliamentary scrutiny. but above all, we must keep alive this exercise of parliamentary diplomacy, which is an opportunity for horizontal dialogue to explain the european union's gigantic effort in cooperation and humanitarian aid, which must be true to its values. it should in no way be a tool or a means of subverting the policy of returns or controlling migration, but rather a means of exchanging good practices in the field of human rights, strengthening the rule of law, integration, inclusion, combating all forms of discrimination and, of course, strengthening the role of women in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. they're very different regions from each other, but africa is the big giant. africa is the european union's unrelenting partner. i encourage the von der leyen commission - which has just been given its powers today - to bring this negotiation to a successful conclusion and to make parliament's role in the relationship with africa, the caribbean and the pacific prevail.
madam president! last week, i had the privilege of being part of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in kigali, where i experienced firsthand what such a partnership agreement really means. it allows countries on different continents to come together to address or improve common issues such as human rights, democracy, equality, peace and security, climate, the environment and more. we are facing a document which will influence the shape of future acp-eu cooperation, and it is therefore important that the european parliament, as the institutional players involved in this agreement, be present at its creation. the drafting of the new agreement is based on the existing one, while the resolution calls for equal representation of african, caribbean and pacific countries and eu countries, greater involvement of civil society, political dialogue and sustainable development. only together can we achieve peaceful, stable, prosperous countries and societies.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, josé daniel ferrer, the leader of the patriotic union of cuba (unpacu) was arrested on 1 october at his home in santiago de cuba and has been detained since. he has received visits – that have been limited – from his family, who have reported that his health is fragile. we have raised the case of josé daniel ferrer, as well as other cases, with the cuban authorities, both in brussels and in havana, most recently at the level of our head of delegation, who conducted an outreach on this issue to the cuban ministry of foreign affairs most recently on 6 november. the day after our intervention his family, including his three children, was able to visit him. let me stress very clearly once again what we have declared many times: that we expect cuba to respect every citizen’s fundamental freedoms and human dignity, including the right to a fair trial. in these years, we have never refrained from raising cases such as the one of mr ferrer, together with our member states, in a coordinated manner and in a very proactive manner. our engagement with cuba on human rights is open and frank. we have no taboos, we address these issues at all levels, including at mine, every time that we see the need for doing that, and that is, unfortunately, quite often. we have chosen to engage with cuba not because we see eye to eye on all issues, but precisely because we don’t. and let me say very clearly that i am proud that we have opened a new phase in our relations with cuba during my mandate – let me stress this – with the full support of all of our member states, no one excluded, no matter the political orientation of the government in place. i am proud that our political dialogue and cooperation agreement is in place, also because human rights are an essential part of it. and i’m proud of our critical engagement with the cuban leadership, which gives us the opportunity to strengthen our cooperation but also to openly address our disagreements and to do something about them. the first formal dialogue we launched with cuba under the new agreement was precisely on human rights, because respect for fundamental freedoms and for civil society is essential for us and is essential to us also because it can only be with the full respect of the space for civil society and human rights that economic development can be sustainable. only through such critical engagement that we have opened with cuba can we accompany the country in its modernisation. this is one of the goals of our agreements: accompanying the country as it reforms its political and economic model, building its economy on more solid foundations, and helping cubans build a country where everyone enjoys the same freedoms and the same rights.
author. madam president, haiti has long been a politically unstable country with a high level of corruption. a country that doesn't respect human rights, a country where journalists die, a country where personal freedoms are violated. i think the european union should show its ability to negotiate a dialogue between the opposition and the ruling power. because that's the only place we see the possibility of changing this state of affairs in any way. it was the european union that helped rebuild this beautiful country after the earthquake in haiti. but we also have to try to help restore the political climate and the social climate in haiti, which is one of the worst on the planet. i think the gap between rich and poor is not the hardest thing to find in this country. the hardest thing to find there is the instability and unpredictability of when you're going to be a victim of crime or a victim of politically motivated violence. i think that needs to change in this country quickly.
author. madam president, haiti is probably one of the great forgotten of our public debate. a country impoverished, with a human development index that has plummeted and with a very serious institutional problem. i believe that what has happened in the last few days forces us to condemn violence, to condemn repression. i have serious doubts, of course, that the current president moïse - whom the protesters accuse of corruption, and there are clear indications that it may be true - is the right person to carry out what the country needs at this time, which is a great national dialogue to restore some normalization. i believe that the european union should continue to support the country with its cooperation instruments. in any case, it is clear that, given the institutional difficulties they have, i understand that support for development cooperation is becoming extremely difficult. so, that support for institutional normalisation - and that national dialogue - i think should be an absolute priority right now. and with the five seconds left - as this is the last time we'll have the high representative here - i would just like to use these last words to thank you for your work these past five years, full of activity, full of initiative. i want to thank you very much for your efforts throughout this time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i too would like to begin by thanking the high representative for the five years of work with parliament, including with me personally, in the context of eastern policy, the eastern partnership. and i think that this collaboration has been effective. ladies and gentlemen! haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world, and a country that is hit by dramatic natural disasters on a regular basis. the european union and the world are trying to provide humanitarian aid to the country. the thing is, this poorly controlled, poorly monitored humanitarian aid often doesn't reach those who need it most. so we have to monitor very closely what happens to that money. i have to say that i'm from poland, our soldiers were stationed in haiti in the early 1800s. it's a special reason to care and help this country.
author. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to begin by thanking you for your excellent term of office. the political and social situation in haiti is unsustainable. the street protests are a justified sign of revolt against an administration without transparency and against unacceptable practices that lead to impoverishment, exploitation of the most vulnerable, insecurity and a serious deterioration in the living conditions of the vast majority of the population. the european union's commitment to cooperate with the haitian people to find a path to stability, development and democracy, respecting the rule of law, must therefore be underlined and applied on a permanent basis. the european parliament's resolution we are debating today reinforces support for this line of action, while condemning the violent repression of the freedom of expression of haitians by the authorities of that country. it is essential that international relations step up their humanitarian aid efforts in a situation of deep crisis, but no support will have the necessary impact if the haitian authorities do not immediately ensure, as required, the restoration of the rule of law and freedom of expression, respecting human rights and the just demands of the people.
author. madam president, haiti is the poorest country in america. it is the victim of austerity policies by international organizations, of a colossal debt imposed by these entities and of a ruling class that pockets money for social projects. as a result, the population is condemned to misery. profiting from the misfortune of millions of people is, once again, the recipe for casino capitalism. thousands of haitians have been on the streets for a year and a half demanding the resignation of the president and an end to neoliberal policies. dozens have been killed by the police, who are also accused of links to armed groups responsible for massacres and sexual violence. and all this in the face of the silence of the international community. we condemn the repression against the haitian people and the complicit international silence. we also demand an end to austerity and neoliberal policies and debt forgiveness so that the haitian people can have a future with dignity. mrs mogherini, i hope we will not have to miss you with what comes in the next legislature.
author. - madam president! haiti. one of the poorest countries in the world, already plagued by economic underdevelopment and inequality. the terrible deprivation of the population, the violence, the discrimination, the stigmatization. even the systems of modern forms of child slavery, and on top of that, the successive natural disasters. haiti has been plunged into increasing chaos and a worsening humanitarian catastrophe in the past year. barricades against protesters, power cuts, lack of an operational government, denial of access to aid, escalation of violence. all of this denies people there basic human rights, access to food, to drinking water, to emergency medical care, access to education for young people. i am not asking or calling, but i am calling on all parties in haiti to stop the violence and the further suffering of the people. i condemn the violent crackdown on protesters, the suppression of reporting, the threats, the murders of three journalists. the eu must react, it must come to the rescue in concrete ways.
in writing. as the only directly elected eu body, the european parliament will have to take a strong stance in its legislative, supervisory and budgetary powers under the green deal, as it is directly accountable to more than 500 million european voters and citizens, and in particular to the future generation of voters' beneficiaries, who have clearly expressed their demands for climate action on the streets of european cities over the past year. the european green deal, especially in the light of achieving the 2050 climate targets, is not a choice but a necessity. only the most optimal measures for the implementation of the policies which are a constituent part of this agreement will be able to be selected. this process of compromise must not, however, be to the detriment of the most vulnerable, both communities and individuals, in countries where objective factors prevent them from being on an equal footing in this 'race' to a zero-carbon future. not only politics and the economy, but also every eu citizen faces a demanding challenge. the role of the informed individual, as a consumer and, let us not forget, as the bearer of all human rights, is a tiny piece of the green deal's mosaic, but it can have a significant and, above all, lasting impact on its successful implementation. it is known which rights can be limited or suspended in a state of emergency that we have declared in the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to say, for the sake of order, that you know that the withdrawal procedure has three parts, namely the divorce agreement, the transitional arrangements and the negotiations on the future relationship, and we are in discussion in all three areas.
mr. president, a disgrace in the heart of europe. of course, you can't know what i'm talking about specifically, because we have these, these embarrassments, a lot of them, unfortunately. well, in this case, i'm talking about the wolf man. that was the name that was given to this refugee migrant camp in bosnia and herzegovina in public, and it was a real shame. so we can be satisfied that the people were moved from there a few days ago and that this camp was closed. it was necessary to understand each other. but did this end the migrant refugee crisis as such? it's not. we need an agreement, a common agreement, a common common immigration and asylum policy, in parallel with solving, but really solving, these problems in the countries of origin. why would you do that? because if this term ends without it again, then we'll be the biggest disgrace in the heart of europe.
mr president, the new strategy is a great opportunity to remove barriers for disabled people and to ensure their better social inclusion. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities already provides that persons with disabilities, regardless of their degree of disability, should enjoy all human rights to the fullest extent possible. the aim is to ensure a quality of life, to improve their care and to maximise their independence, and thus to move from institutional care to care or to life in small communities. within this, the biggest obstacle is poverty, because precisely the lack of access to employment also means a greater risk of social exclusion and mobility problems for disabled people, as also pointed out by the european network for independent living. access to institutions is thus disadvantaged, as is mobility between countries. that is why, as i said, greater social inclusion of the disabled is crucial.
mr. president, bees and other pollinators are vital to life on earth and one of the main indicators of the health of our environment. they are not only essential for pollinating most of our food, but also for the quality of the food itself, biodiversity, pest control, soil and water quality. in the past, nature took care of the pollinators, and now we have to take care of them ourselves. i therefore welcome this resolution, which calls on the member states to take measures to reduce the use of harmful pesticides and to monitor bee populations appropriately. the commission and the member states should set out biodiversity and pesticide use reduction measures in strategic plans and increase funding to support a citizen science project on pollinator registration and monitoring. without pollinators, the world will be without food, without nature, and, dear ones, without people.
in writing. the eu-mercosur free trade agreement gives concrete reasons for concern about effective and consistent compliance with both international labour law (some mercosur members are not signatories to certain core ilo conventions) and climate and environmental standards. if the european parliament recently agreed to the existence of an emergency climate and environmental situation, it is unacceptable to expect that this very institution will not be particularly vigilant in concluding trade agreements with an organisation of which brazil is also a member, whose approach to environmental policy is clearly at odds with the eu's ambitions and plans in this area. the eu is expected to make a strong effort to ensure that economic and social rights, the principle of sustainability, environmental standards and climate objectives are respected during the design (negotiation), implementation and enforcement of trade agreements. without taking these components into account, it is totally irresponsible to conceive of the meaning of free trade agreements today. in particular, the agreements must ensure that the provisions in question are legally binding and, in this connection, that they contain mechanisms enabling them to be enforced in practice. the eu has the opportunity to use its position and power in international trade as an additional lever to promote agreements that take account of the need to adapt the market to people and the environment.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr borrell! i was born in 1979, and as old as i am, as long as there's been this regime in iran. before, this society was on the path to a purity instead of a black and white situation that society is in today, on the path to a brightness, not in dark times that iranian society is in today. when we talk about the violent repression of protests, we must not think of the wrong images. it's not about bloody noses or a few bruises - which is unjustifiable - it's about more than a thousand dead - a thousand deaths that the regime is responsible for among its own people. mid-november is only a few weeks ago, and that's a few weeks before the beginning of the 20s of the 21st century. what do we have to do? we must make it clear again and again that we have a nuclear agreement. not because we think the regime is trustworthy, but precisely because we don't think it is trustworthy, we need the agreement in black and white to prevent iran from developing weapons of mass destruction, because iran is a security risk to the entire world. i therefore ask you, mr high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to take seriously the diplomatic sanctions you announced in your speech! we owe this to the iranian people, with whom we stand in the name of human dignity and freedom.
mr. chairman, please! the violent repression of the demonstrations of disgruntled citizens, which resulted in more than 100 deaths and the arrest of persons whose fate is still unknown, reminds us of the brutality and the uncompromising and violent nature of the theocratic regime in iran. of course, we may have different views and opinions on whether the us withdrawal from the nuclear agreement was justified or not and whether the sanctions imposed are the appropriate move or not. but despite this, nothing justifies the violence and brutality with which the iranian regime has suppressed and continues to suppress the dissatisfaction of the population. the imposition of sanctions cannot and should not be an excuse for the brutality and violence of a regime that increasingly relies on the repressive apparatus and paramilitary forces with which it exercises violence at home but also in the region. the european union must condemn the regime in tehran's actions in a strong and unambiguous way, regardless of its interests, and make it clear that we will not compromise our fundamental values in the face of such interests. we must demand that our interlocutors respect at least the minimum of established human rights, international law and, last but not least, their own national legislation. the brutality of the regime, however, reflects its instability and sense of vulnerability, and the iranian theocratic regime must realize that the use of brutal force at home and the creation of regional hegemony is demonstrably not going to allow it to survive. the only way forward is through profound social, social and political changes that will allow iran to gradually return to the international community.
